VILLAGE CODE
of
WEST DUNDEE, ILLINOIS
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-36, passed July 21, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of West Dundee, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-36, passed July 21, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
WEST DUNDEE VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Intent
1-1-3: Acceptance
1-1-4: Amendments
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-6: Distribution Of Copies
1-1-7: Home Rule Authority
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the municipal code of West Dundee. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the WEST DUNDEE MUNICIPAL CODE, and it
is hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be kept up
to date as provided in section
1-1-4  of this chapter under the direction of the village attorney, acting for
said village board of trustees. Any reference to the number of any section
contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same
number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty
clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is
made to this code by title in any legal document. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-1-2: INTENT:
All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this code
shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent of the board of
trustees may be fully carried out. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-1-3: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, and as subsequently amended,
shall hereafter be received without further proof in all courts and in all
administrative tribunals of this state as the ordinances of the village of
general and permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in
section
1-2-1 of this title. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Procedure: All amendments shall be by ordinance, adopted by a majority
of the corporate authorities then holding office, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter
and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this code by the village clerk. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be kept in a supplement
to be inserted annually into the code.
   B.   Reference To Code: Any additions or amendments to this code, when
passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the village president and
board of trustees to make the same part of this code, shall be deemed to be
incorporated in the ordinance so that a reference to this code shall be
understood to include them.
   C.   Recording Amendments:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the village clerk to keep the code up to
date by inserting amendments in their proper place upon passage.
      2.   The village clerk shall keep a separate book containing every
amendment, repeal or addition passed to this code, with a reference on each
copy of such amendments or additions as to the place in the record of
ordinances where the original ordinance may be found.
      3.   The above mentioned records shall be kept in addition to the record
of ordinances which the clerk is required to keep by statute. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
village board. The clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain this code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the village
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the village and shall
be returned to the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the
village board. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-1-6: DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES:
   A.   Custody Of Clerk: All of the printed copies of this code belonging to
the village shall be deposited with the village clerk who shall deliver one
copy thereof to the village president and each member of the board of trustees,
village attorney and village manager direct. Remaining copies may be
distributed at a cost of fifty dollars ($50.00) for other than elected or
appointed officials of the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Presentation Of Copies: The village president and board of trustees
shall have the power to extend or reciprocate courtesies of other
municipalities by presenting them with a copy of this code, bound at the
expense of the village, as to them shall seem suitable, and they shall also
have the power to present two (2) copies to the Illinois municipal league.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   C.   Loss Of Copy: It shall be the duty of each official of the village
entrusted with a copy of this code to return such copy in good condition upon
the end of his term of office. Failure to return said copy in good condition
shall result in a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) to replace such code book.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
1-1-7: HOME RULE AUTHORITY:
This code and any amendments thereto constitute an exercise of the village's
home rule powers and functions as granted under article VII, section 6, of the
constitution of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 00-01, 1-17-2000)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
village; and all special ordinances. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatsoever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in
force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such
provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment
announced after the new ordinance takes effect. This section shall extend to
all repeals, either by express words or implication whether the repeal is in
the ordinance making any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other
ordinance. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any title, chapter, section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The village board of
trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be applied except in any section of this code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the village has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the village's ordinances is not meant to amend
the passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person authorized by another to act for him.
   ARTICLE: When "article" appears within a chapter of this code, it means that
particular article of that chapter.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The president and board of trustees of the village also
referred to as the village board.
   CHAPTER: When "chapter" appears within a chapter of this code, it means that
particular chapter.
   CODE: The municipal code of West Dundee, and amendments thereto.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees of West
Dundee.
   COUNTY: The county of Kane, state of Illinois.
   EMPLOYEES: Those persons hired by the municipality, not including
independent contractors. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village
employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words
"of the village of West Dundee".
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for use of a privilege under the
control of the village.
   FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal and municipal year of the village shall commence on
May 1 of each year, and end on April 30 of the following year.
   ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE: The Illinois municipal code shall be referenced at
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-1 et seq.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
   MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed, provided
however, that for the purposes of this code, the term of imprisonment for a
misdemeanor shall be waived and only the fine shall be applicable.
   MUNICIPAL YEAR: See definition of Fiscal Year.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether
alone or with others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS: Those persons either elected or appointed, whose duties are
prescribed by statute. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village
officer by title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words
"of the village of West Dundee".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any part
owner, joint owner, beneficial owner, tenant in common or joint tenant or
lessee of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   PERMIT: A written grant of authority to do or perform some act prescribed by
this code. Said permit becomes valid when signed by the person having the
authority to issue said permit.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, sole
proprietorship, association, organization, government or any other group acting
as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be
understood to relate to those persons engaged in the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in small quantities direct to the consumer.
   STATE: The state of Illinois.
   STREET: This term shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, avenues,
public squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
   TITLE: When "title" appears within a title of this code, it means that
particular title.
   TRUSTEES: The trustees of the village, not including the president.
   VILLAGE: The village of West Dundee, county of Kane, state of Illinois.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The president of the village may be referred to as
"mayor" or "president" of the village.
   WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to those persons engaged in the sale of
goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: These terms may include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law, it shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in
case he is unable to write, by his proper mark. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd.
Ord. 94-06, 3-7-1994; Ord, 01-34, 10-8-2001; 2004 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (Ord. 89-4, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Presumption Of Responsibility
1-4-5: Collection Fees And Cost
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Whenever in this code a minimum but not a maximum fine or penalty is
imposed, the court may, in its discretion, fine the offender any sum exceeding
the minimum fine or penalty so imposed but not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each petty offense, one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) for each class B or class C misdemeanor and two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each class A misdemeanor. The offender shall
also be responsible for the village's cost of prosecution including reasonable
attorney fees.
   B.   Whenever in this code an offender is guilty of a class A, B or C
misdemeanor, a sentence of imprisonment shall not be imposed upon the offender.
(Ord. 01-34, 10-8-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 730 ILCS 5/5-9-1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of violation of any section of this code where any duty is
prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing
nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-4-4: PRESUMPTION OF RESPONSIBILITY:
The occupant and owner of any premises upon which a violation of any village
ordinance is apparent, the owner of any object or material placed or remaining
anywhere in violation of an ordinance, and the occupant of any premises served
by any excavation or structure illegally made or erected, shall be deemed prima
facie responsible for the violation so evidenced, and subject to the penalty
provided therefor. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-4-5: COLLECTION FEES AND COST:
In the event a fine or penalty is assessed pursuant to any provision of this
Code, a default in the payment of a fine or penalty or any installment of a
fine or penalty may be collected by any means authorized for the collection of
monetary judgments. The village and the village attorney or the finance
director or their designees may retain attorneys and private collection agents
for the purpose of collecting any default in payment of any fine or penalty
imposed by this Code, or any installment of a fine or penalty. The village
shall add a thirty five percent (35%) cost of collections to any outstanding
balance that requires the village to retain the services of a collection
agency. This thirty five percent (35%) cost includes any default in a fine or
penalty or any installment of a fine or penalty that was previously referred to
an attorney or private collection agency and the payment of which remains
outstanding. (Ord. 2019-19, 8-19-2019)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election And Term; Powers And Duties
1-5-2: Bond And Oath
1-5-3: Compensation
1-5-1: ELECTION AND TERM; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The election and term and powers and duties of the village president shall be
as provided in the Illinois municipal code, which is incorporated herein by
reference, as it now exists and as from time to time amended. (2004 Code)
1-5-2: BOND AND OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the village president shall take
and subscribe the oath of office as provided by the statutes of the state of
Illinois and shall execute his bond to the village in the penal sum of three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the board of
trustees, conditioned as provided by law. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-5-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the village president shall be, and the same hereby is,
fixed at the sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each regularly or
specially convened meeting of the board of trustees attended by the village
president commencing May 1, 2007. (Ord. 06-52, 10-16-2006)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election And Term
1-6-2: Compensation
1-6-3: Duties And Assignments
1-6-4: Meetings
1-6-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The election and term and powers and duties of the trustees shall be as
provided in the Illinois municipal code which is incorporated herein by
reference, as it now exists and as from time to time amended. (2004 Code)
1-6-2: COMPENSATION:
The compensation to be received by each member of the board of trustees for
each regular or specially convened meeting of said board of trustees shall be
the sum of one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) for each such meeting
attended by said board of trustees, commencing May 1, 2007. (Ord. 06-52, 10-16-
2006)
1-6-3: DUTIES AND ASSIGNMENTS:
   A.   General Duties: The board of trustees shall perform such duties and
have such powers as may be authorized by statute.
   B.   Trustee Assignments: The village president shall appoint each village
trustee primary responsibility in one of the following areas: (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
      1.   Administration and economic development.
      2.   Community relations.
      3.   Public safety.
      4.   Public works.
      5.   Intergovernmental affairs.
      6.   Planning and zoning. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
1-6-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: All regular meetings of the village president and
board of trustees shall be held in the village hall on the first and third
Mondays of each month at the hour of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. Meetings
of the village president and board of trustees acting as a committee of the
whole shall be held in the village hall on the second Monday of each month at
the hour of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the board of trustees shall be
called by the village president or by any three (3) members of said board. Such
call shall be in writing, setting forth the object of such meetings and the
hour thereof, and delivered to the village clerk, who shall thereupon file the
same in her office and make copies thereof. A written or printed copy of such
call shall be left at the place of residence or place of abode of the village
president and members of said board of trustees, excepting those persons making
the call, at least forty eight (48) hours prior to such meeting. When copies of
notice of such meetings are delivered to the chief of police, it shall be his
duty to serve such notices as herein provided. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004
Code)
   C.   Electronic Attendance At Meetings Rules: Attendance at any meeting by
"other means" as defined in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/7 shall be in
accordance with the following rules:
      1.   Rules Statement: Any member of the corporate authorities may attend
any open or closed meeting of the corporate authorities via electronic means
(such as by telephone, video or internet connection) provided that such
attendance is in compliance with these rules and any applicable laws.
      2.   Prerequisites: A member of the corporate authorities may attend a
meeting electronically if the member meets the following conditions:
         a.   The member should notify the clerk at least twenty four (24)
hours before the meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary communications
equipment can be arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical
arrangements will result in denial of a request for remote attendance.
         b.   The member must assert one of the following three (3) reasons why
he or she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
            (1)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability; or
            (2)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or
the business of the village; or
            (3)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other
emergency.
      3.   Authorization To Participate:
         a.   The clerk, after receiving the electronic attendance request,
shall inform the corporate authorities of the request for electronic
attendance.
         b.   After establishing that there is a quorum physically present at a
meeting where a member of the corporate authorities desires to attend
electronically, the presiding officer shall state that: 1) a notice was
received by a member of the corporate authorities in accordance with these
rules, and 2) the member will be deemed authorized to attend the meeting
electronically unless a motion objecting to the member's electronic attendance
is made, seconded, and approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the members physically
present at the meeting. If no such motion is made and seconded or if any such
motion fails to achieve the required vote by the members physically present at
the meeting, then the request by the member to attend the meeting
electronically shall be deemed approved and the presiding officer shall declare
the requesting member present. After such declaration by the presiding officer,
the question of a member's electronic attendance may not be reconsidered.
      4.   Adequate Equipment Required: The member participating electronically
and other members of the corporate authorities must be able to communicate
effectively, and members of the audience must be able to hear all
communications at the meeting site. Before allowing electronic attendance at
any meeting, the corporate authorities shall provide equipment adequate to
accomplish this objective at the meeting site.
      5.   Minutes: Any member attending electronically shall be counted as
present electronically for that meeting if the member is allowed to attend. The
meeting minutes shall also reflect and state specifically whether each member
is physically present or present by electronic means.
      6.   Rights Of Remote Member: A member permitted to attend electronically
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as
to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically
shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded
by the clerk and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A member
attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case of any
member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce his or her
leaving and returning.
      7.   Committees, Boards And Commissions: These rules shall apply to all
committees, boards and commissions established by authority of the corporate
authorities. (Ord. 06-64, 12-18-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
   D.   Order Of Business: At regular meetings of the village president and
board of trustees, the order of business shall be as follows:
      1.   Call to order
      2.   Roll call
      3.   Pledge Of Allegiance
      4.   Approval of agenda
      5.   Village president's report
      6.   Reports and questions from trustees and working groups
      7.   Village staff reports
      8.   Questions from the audience (not to exceed 30 minutes, with a limit
of 5 minutes per person requesting to be heard)
         a.   Items on the agenda
         b.   Items not on the agenda
      9.   Consent agenda
      10.   Resolutions and ordinances
      11.   Unfinished business
      12.   New business
      13.   Executive session
      14.   Miscellaneous/future agenda items
      15.   Adjournment (Ord. 2016-29, 9-26-2016)
   E.   Rules Of Order: On all points of order not specially provided for by
law, "Robert's Rules Of Order" are hereby adopted as the law to govern
deliberations of said board of trustees.
   F.   Maintaining Order: The chief of police, or a designated police officer
or in his inability to act, some person designated by the village president,
may attend every meeting of the village president and board of trustees to
preserve and maintain order.
   G.   Disrupting Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any person to interrupt,
obstruct, interfere with or disrupt any meeting of the village president and
board of trustees. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to a fine or penalty of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 06-64, 12-18-
2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. CODE OF ETHICS
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Statement Of Policy
1-7A-2: Persons Affected
1-7A-3: Definitions
1-7A-4: Prohibited Political Activities
1-7A-5: Gift Ban
1-7A-6: Disclosure Of Interest In Legislative Action
1-7A-7: Board Of Trustees Ruling
1-7A-8: Interest In Contract Or Transaction
1-7A-9: Political Contribution Limits
1-7A-10: Ethics Advisor
1-7A-11: Ethics Commission
1-7A-12: Penalties
1-7A-13: Distribution Of Code Of Ethics
1-7A-1: STATEMENT OF POLICY:
It is the policy of the Village that its employees and elected and appointed
officials should, in all cases, exercise their judgment and perform their
duties for the sole benefit of the citizens of the Village. To this end all
such persons should avoid accepting or retaining any economic benefits or
opportunities which could impair or present an actual threat to the exercise of
independent judgment. It is further the policy of the Village that all
appearances of impropriety shall be avoided. The Board of Trustees hereby
determines that a policy setting forth ethical principles and regulations
applicable to public officials and employees is in the best interests of the
Village and will contribute to the public confidence in the integrity, ability
and performance of said persons. (Ord. 94-14, 7-25-1994)
1-7A-2: PERSONS AFFECTED:
   A.   All of the provisions of this article and section
1-9-5 of this title, unless as otherwise indicated, shall apply to all elected
Village officials, to the Village Manager, assistant to the Manager, and
department heads, and members of the boards and commissions of the Village who
were appointed by the Village President and Board of Trustees. Other employees
shall be governed by the Village Personnel Manual and chapter 9 of this title.
Sections 1-7A-4 and 1-7A-5 of this article shall apply to all officers and
employees of the Village. (Ord. 2017-34, 12-4-2017)
   B.   In addition to the provisions of this article, but consistent
therewith, the Village Manager is hereby directed and authorized to promulgate
such rules and regulations relating to outside employment, conflict of
interest, or other ethical matters as he may deem necessary, which rules and
regulations shall be applicable to all Village employees. (Ord. 94-14, 7-25-
1994)
   C.   No attorney representing the Village in any legal capacity may
represent any interest against the Village. (Ord. 04-08, 6-7-2004)
1-7A-3: DEFINITIONS:
   BUSINESS: A corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
organization or other legal entity carrying on business.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any Federal, State, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action;
b) relating to collective bargaining; or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
   CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in
section 3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
   COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
article, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer or employee is
on premises under the control of the employer and any other time when the
officer or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of
location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4
of the election code 3 .
   EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of West Dundee, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
   EMPLOYER: The village of West Dundee.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST: A. Direct Financial Interest: An interest which shall
yield any monetary or other material benefit to a village officer or employee
or the official's or employee's spouse or children.
   B.   Indirect Financial Interest: A direct financial interest held by
subterfuge and/or fraud.
   C.   Interest Not Solely By Residency: Indirect financial interest or direct
financial interest shall not include any monetary or other material benefit
which is derived by the officer or employee solely by his or her residency in
the village and which is no different than that derived by other village
residents.
   D.   Interest In Business Affairs: An officer or employee shall be deemed to
have an interest in the affairs of:
      1.   Their spouse or children;
      2.   Any person or business entity with whom a contractual relationship
exists with the officer or employee;
      3.   Any business entity in which the officer or employee is an officer,
director, or member having a financial interest in, or employed by;
      4.   Any business entity in which the stock of, or legal or beneficial
ownership of, in excess of seven and one-half percent (71/2%) of the total
stock or total legal and beneficial ownership, is controlled or owned directly
or indirectly by the officer or employee.
   GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   INTERGOVERNMENTAL GIFT: Any gift given to an officer or employee of the
village from a member or employee of the legislative branch of the government
of the state of Illinois, a judge or employee of the judicial branch of the
government of the state of Illinois, an officer or employee of the executive
branch of the government of the state of Illinois, an officer or employee of a
unit of local government, home rule unit, or school district, or an officer or
employee of any other governmental entity.
   INTRAGOVERNMENTAL GIFT: Any gift given to an officer or employee of the
village from another officer or employee of the village.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or
participating in any political meeting, political rally, political
demonstration, or other political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
   RELATIVE: Those people related to the officer or employee as father, mother,
son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt, great uncle, first
cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather, grandmother, grandson,
granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter,
stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, and including the father,
mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the officer's or employee's spouse and
the officer's or employee's fiance or fiancee. (Ord. 04-08, 6-7-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-7A-4: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this section.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 04-08, 6-7-2004)
1-7A-5: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Prohibition: Except as permitted by this section, no officer or
employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer
or employee (collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as
defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this
section.
   B.   Exceptions: Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the
following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code;
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this article, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      13.   It shall not be deemed a violation of the standards of the code of
ethics if the interest of an officer or employee in a person or business entity
is in accordance with the provisions of section 3.1-55-10 of the Illinois
municipal code 1 .
      14.   A commercially reasonable loan made in the ordinary course of
business by an institution authorized by the laws of this state to engage in
the making of such loans shall not be deemed to create an interest in violation
of this code of ethics.
Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection B is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this section if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501 (c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered or succeeded. (Ord. 04-08, 6-7-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10.
1-7A-6: DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST IN LEGISLATIVE ACTION:
   A.   Any member of the board of trustees who has a financial interest or
personal interest in any proposed legislation before the board of trustees
shall disclose on the record of the board of trustees the nature and extent of
such interest.
   B.   Any other official who has a financial or personal interest in any
proposed legislative action of the board of trustees and who participates in
discussion with or gives an official opinion or recommendation to the board of
trustees, shall disclose on the record of the board of trustees the nature and
extent of such interest. (Ord. 94-14, 7-25-1994)
1-7A-7: BOARD OF TRUSTEES RULING:
Any person covered by this article who has a doubt as to the applicability of
any provision of this article in a particular situation may apply, in writing
to the board of trustees for a ruling. Such a ruling shall be furnished by the
board of trustees. (Ord. 94-14, 7-25-1994)
1-7A-8: INTEREST IN CONTRACT OR TRANSACTION:
The village hereby adopts and incorporates by reference all paragraphs,
sections, and subsequent amendments of 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/3 and
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-55-10 in whole as this section. (Ord. 2016-
10, 3-28-2016)
1-7A-9: POLITICAL CONTRIBUTION LIMITS:
   A.   Accepting Political Contributions: Candidates for office in the village
and elected officials in the village are prohibited from accepting
contributions for political campaigns for elective office in the village in
excess of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) from any one person, partnership
and/or corporation. This limitation shall not apply to contributions made by
the candidate to his own campaign. (Ord. 04-08, 6-7-2004)
1-7A-10: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   The village manager, with the advice and consent of the village board
shall designate an ethics advisor for the village.
   B.   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees
of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the
provisions of this article and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the village board. (Ord. 04-
08, 6-7-2004)
1-7A-11: ETHICS COMMISSION:
   A.   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the ethics
commission of the village of West Dundee. The commission shall be comprised of
three (3) members appointed by the village president with the advice and
consent of the village board. No person shall be appointed as a member of the
commission who is related, either by blood or marriage up to the degree of
first cousin, to any elected officer of the village.
   B.   At the first meeting of the commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two (2) commissioners shall serve
two (2) year terms, and the third commissioner shall serve a one year term.
Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed to two (2) year terms.
Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
   C.   At the first meeting of the commission, the commissioners shall choose
a chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
chairperson or any two (2) commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two (2)
commissioners, and official action by the commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two (2) members.
   D.   The village president, with the advice and consent of the village
board, may remove a commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office after service on the commissioner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a copy of the written charges against the
commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel upon not less than ten (10) days' notice. Vacancies shall be filled in
the same manner as original appointments.
   E.   The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      2.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with this section and refer
violations of sections
 1-7A-4 and
 1-7A-5 of this article to the village attorney for prosecution. The commission
shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint alleging a
violation of this article and not upon its own prerogative.
      3.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this article.
      4.   For matters involving sections
1-7A-4 and
1-7A-5 of this article, to compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the
production of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the
obligation of all officers and employees of the village to cooperate with the
commission during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to
cooperate with requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for
discipline or discharge.
      5.   To prepare and publish such manuals and guides as the commission
deems appropriate to facilitate compliance with the terms of this article.
      6.   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this article.
   F.   Complaints:
      1.   Complaints alleging a violation of this article shall be filed with
the ethics commission.
      2.   Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time,
and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      3.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this article, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act. Within seven (7) business days
after receiving the complaint, the commission shall issue notice to the
complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the sufficiency of
the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed. If the complaint
is deemed not sufficient to allege a violation or if there is no determination
of probable cause, then the commission shall send by certified mail, return
receipt requested, a notice to the parties of the decision to dismiss the
complaint, and that notice shall be made public.
      4.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
section
1-7A-5 of this article and there is a determination of probable cause, then the
commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four (4) weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively, the
commission may elect to notify in writing the village attorney to prosecute
such actions and request that the complaint be adjudicated judicially and the
commission's notice to the parties shall indicate this fact.
      5.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
section
1-7A-4 of this article, then the commission shall notify in writing the village
attorney to prosecute such actions and shall transmit to the village attorney
the complaint and all additional documents in the custody of the commission
concerning the alleged violation. The commission's notice to the parties shall
indicate these facts.
      6.   If the commission elects to hear a case brought under section
1-7A-5 of this article, on the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight
(48) hours' public notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a
hearing on the complaint and shall allow both parties the opportunity to
present testimony and evidence. The hearing may be closed to the public only if
authorized by the open meetings act.
      7.   Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing of a case brought under section
 1-7A-5 of this article is concluded, the commission shall either: a) dismiss
the complaint; or b) issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged
violator and to the village president or other officer having authority to
discipline the officer or employee, or impose a fine upon the violator, or
both. The particular findings in the case, any recommendation for discipline,
and any fine imposed shall be a matter of public information.
      8.   If the hearing on a case brought under section
1-7A-5 of this article was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand,
the commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least
forty eight (48) hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the
opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days
thereafter, the commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the
alleged violator and to the village president or other officer having authority
to discipline the officer or employee or impose a fine upon the violator, or
both.
      9.   If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the
date of any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission
shall render its decision as required under subsection F7 of this section
within seven (7) days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven (7)
days preceding that election, the commission shall render such decision before
the date of that election, if possible.
      10.   A complaint alleging the violation of this article must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation.
      11.   In the event a member of the commission is the subject of an
alleged violation of this article, such commissioner shall immediately recuse
himself or herself from the investigation of such alleged violation, and shall
take no part in the final action of the commission regarding such alleged
violation. A substitute commissioner shall be appointed pursuant to the terms
of subsection A of this section for purposes relating to this matter only.
(Ord. 04-08, 6-7-2004)
1-7A-12: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-7A-4 of this article may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
 1-7A-5 of this article is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   The commission may levy an administrative fine of up to five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who violates section
1-7A-4 or
1-7A-5 of this article or who intentionally makes a false, frivolous, or bad
faith allegation under those sections.
   D.   In addition to any administrative fines imposed pursuant to subsection
C of this section, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of section
1-7A-4 or
1-7A-5 of this article to the ethics commission, the state's attorney or any
other law enforcement official may be punished by a term of incarceration in a
penal institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   E.   A violation of section
1-7A-4 of this article shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by the village
attorney by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn complaint,
charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules
of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt
of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
   F.   A violation of section
1-7A-5 of this article may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the village, or the ethics commission, through the designated
administrative procedure.
   G.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable to section
1-7A-4 or
1-7A-5 of this article, whether criminal or civil, an officer or employee who
intentionally violates any provision of section
1-7A-4 or
1-7A-5 of this article is subject to discipline or discharge.
   H.   For violations other than under section
1-7A-4 or
1-7A-5 of this article, the ethics commission shall recommend remedial action
to the full board of trustees, which shall take final action. Final action may
consist of a reprimand, suspension without pay or removal from employment of
office where permitted by law. The board of trustees may also refer the matter
to the village attorney who may be directed to refer the matter to the state
attorney's office for prosecution. (Ord. 04-08, 6-7-2004)
1-7A-13: DISTRIBUTION OF CODE OF ETHICS:
The village clerk shall cause a copy of this code of ethics to be distributed
to every officer and employee of the village within thirty (30) days after
enactment of this code of ethics. Each officer and employee elected, appointed
or engaged hereafter shall be furnished a copy before entering upon the duties
of his or her office or employment. (Ord. 04-08, 6-7-2004)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE MANAGER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Office Created
1-7B-2: Appointment
1-7B-3: Qualifications
1-7B-4: Compensation
1-7B-5: Acting Manager
1-7B-6: Removal From Office
1-7B-7: Powers And Duties
1-7B-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of village manager (the "village manager").
(Ord. 97-30, 12-15-1997)
1-7B-2: APPOINTMENT:
The village manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the corporate
authorities. The village manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term.
Applicants for village manager shall be interviewed by the corporate
authorities and the appointment of the village manager shall be contingent upon
the applicant signing a contract or letter of agreement regarding conditions of
employment. Said contract or letter of agreement shall be approved by a
majority vote of the board of trustees. (Ord. 97-30, 12-15-1997)
1-7B-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   General: The village manager shall be chosen exclusively on the basis
of administrative and executive abilities, skills, education, qualifications
and experience. The office shall be considered a professional position.
   B.   No Elected Officials: No elected official of the village shall be
appointed village manager during the term of office for which the person was
elected.
   C.   Bond: Before entering the duties of the office, the village manager
shall execute a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be required
by law and by ordinance, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of the office, and to indemnify the village against any loss due to any
neglect of duty or wrongful act on the part of the village manager. The cost of
the premium for said bond shall be borne by the village.
   D.   Residency: The village manager need not be a resident of the village.
However, the corporate authorities and village manager may provide by contract
or employment agreement a proximity of residency as a condition of employment.
   E.   Other Employment: The village manager shall devote his/her full time
and effort to the performance of his or her duties, and shall not engage in any
other employment which would have any possibility of being a conflict of
interest with the position without the consent of the corporate authorities.
(Ord. 97-30, 12-15-1997)
1-7B-4: COMPENSATION:
The amount and manner of compensation for the village manager shall be
determined by the corporate authorities after an annual performance evaluation,
or as the contract or employment agreement otherwise provides. (Ord. 97-30, 12-
15-1997)
1-7B-5: ACTING MANAGER:
In the event the office of village manager becomes vacant, the corporate
authorities, in a majority vote, shall appoint an acting manager to perform the
duties of the office until such time as a new village manager is appointed as
provided herein. The corporate authorities shall have the authority to create a
hierarchy of village personnel who may temporarily serve as acting manager in
the event the village manager is absent from the village or incapacitated from
performing the duties of the office. (Ord. 97-30, 12-15-1997)
1-7B-6: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The village manager may be removed from office at any time for just cause by a
majority vote of the corporate authorities. Not less than ten (10) days before
such removal becomes effective, the corporate authorities shall furnish the
village manager with a written statement setting forth its intentions to remove
said village manager from office and the reasons therefor. If requested by the
village manager, the corporate authorities shall conduct a public hearing on
the matter during the ten (10) day period. (Ord. 97-30, 12-15-1997)
1-7B-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The village manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the village.
All departments shall report to the village manager. The village manager shall
be responsible to the board of trustees for the proper administration,
operation and control of all affairs of the village. The powers and duties of
the village manager shall be as more specifically set forth below:
   A.   Execution Of Policy: The village manager shall execute, on behalf of
the board of trustees, its policies, enforce its ordinances and resolutions,
and otherwise administer the affairs of the village as directed by the board of
trustees. The village manager shall have the authority and responsibility to
research and analyze issues and alternatives, as well as to recommend policies,
for consideration by the board of trustees.
   B.   Meeting Attendance: The village manager or his designee shall attend
all meetings of the board of trustees and its committees. The village manager
shall be permitted to take part in the discussion of all matters coming before
the board of trustees or its committees, unless excused. The village manager
shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the board of
trustees and its committees.
   C.   Liaison With Boards And Commissions: The village manager shall
cooperate with the advisory boards, committees and commissions created by the
board of trustees, and those that may be created. The village president with
the advice and consent of the board of trustees, shall retain the sole
authority to make appointments to such boards, committees or commissions,
although the village president and board of trustees may seek recommendations
of the village manager. The village manager shall seek direction from the board
of trustees as to his or his designee's attendance at such meetings, and the
degree of staff support to be furnished to the various boards and commissions.
(Ord. 97-30, 12-15-1997)
   D.   Village Personnel:
      1.   Supervision Over Departments And Employees: The village manager
shall exercise control over and coordinate the work of all departments, the
divisions thereof, and all employees of the village, including the village
treasurer. Although the attorneys and engineers working for the village are
independent contractors, the village manager shall work closely with them to
coordinate the village manager's efforts with their activities and
responsibilities so that board of trustees policies are properly implemented.
(Ord. 02-26, 8-5-2002)
      2.   Hiring, Appointments: The village manager shall hire and appoint all
department heads (including the village treasurer), as well as any other
support staff that directly reports to the village manager. The village manager
shall have the authority to hire all other employees or to approve their hiring
as permitted in the budget adopted by the board of trustees, except for those
positions, offices, boards, commissions or other institutions whose appointment
or hiring is otherwise governed by this code or by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes. The recruitment, selection, hiring, evaluation, promotion and
discipline of employees shall be as provided in the personnel policy manual
adopted by the board of trustees, and shall be based on merit and
qualifications without regard to political belief or affiliations.
      3.   Compensation Scale Recommendations: The village manager shall
develop and maintain a standard schedule of compensation for employee
classifications and a merit evaluation system.
   E.   Collector, Budget Officer: The village manager shall serve as the
collector and budget officer, as provided for in this code.
   F.   Budget Preparation And Fiscal Administration: The village manager shall
be responsible for:
      1.   Preparing the annual operating and capital improvements budgets, and
submitting them with his opinions and recommendations to the board of trustees
for review and approval.
      2.   Preparing the annual tax levy ordinance and annual budget ordinance
for the board of trustees review and approval.
      3.   Applying for and seeking to acquire such appropriate state, federal,
local, public and private grants as may be available.
      4.   Exercising general direction of the activities of the Finance
Director and Treasurer to ensure compliance with State, Federal and local law.
(Ord. 97-30, 12-15-1997)
      5.   Acting as the Village purchasing agent. In this capacity, the
Village Manager or his designee shall develop a Purchasing Manual of Procedures
for the proper functioning of the purchasing system; approve all purchases, not
requiring prior action by the Board of Trustees and not exceeding ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) or up to fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00), if the
expense is a repetitive expense that is provided for in the budget (e.g.,
purchase of salt for the Public Works Department); assist in the preparation of
bid specifications and related documents for the Board of Trustees review and
approval when required; and administer the Board approved annual budget after
adoption. (Ord. 2017-26, 11-20-2017)
      6.   Exercising general supervision over the receipt, collection,
disbursement, and accounting of all Village revenues and expenses; cause
financial reports and audits to be prepared; and provide information and
reports to the Board of Trustees on the financial condition and fiscal matters
of the Village for their review and approval as appropriate.
   G.   Reports And Studies: The Village Manager shall evaluate and report, not
less frequently than monthly, to the Board of Trustees on the operations of the
Village departments. At the direction of the Board of Trustees, the Village
Manager shall conduct studies and submit reports and recommendations in those
areas of concern to the Board of Trustees.
   H.   Investigation Of Complaints: The Village Manager shall be notified and
receive, and shall investigate or have investigated all complaints in relation
to matters concerning the administration of the government of the Village, and
the services maintained and provided by the Village.
   I.   General Recommendations: From time to time the Village Manager shall
recommend to the Board of Trustees the adoption of such measures as may be
deemed necessary or expedient for the health, safety, comfort or welfare of the
community or for the improvement of services rendered by the Village, when such
measures require action by the Board of Trustees.
   J.   Matters Directed To The Village Manager's Attention: All officers and
department heads shall submit all matters requiring Board of Trustees action,
or attention, to the Village Manager, who shall submit them to the Board of
Trustees with such recommendations as may be deemed necessary. All direction to
departments or employees made by the Board of Trustees shall be submitted to
the Village Manager, and the Board of Trustees will then receive the
information as to policy and departmental operations from the Village Manager.
The Board of Trustees will deal with administrative services and functions as
much as practical through the Village Manager. In instances where a request or
an inquiry is made directly to an employee by a Board of Trustees member, the
Village Manager should be advised of the matter as soon as possible.
   K.   Enforcement Authority: The Village Manager shall have the authority to
enforce the laws, codes and ordinances of the Village. The Village Manager or
his designee may sign complaints in the name of the Village for violations of
laws, codes and ordinances, and shall attend as witness before the court where
a trial may be had on such complaints. The Manager shall see that all
franchises, permits, licenses and privileges granted by the Village are
faithfully and impartially observed and administered.
   L.   Emergencies: In the event of an accident, disaster or other
circumstance creating a public emergency, the Village Manager may award
contracts, make purchases and incur other obligations of the Village for the
purpose of meeting said emergency, up to twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00). As soon as practical, the Village Manager shall file with the
Board of Trustees a written statement of such emergency, the necessity for such
action and an itemized account of all expenditures or obligations incurred, and
seek subsequent confirmation or approval by the Board of Trustees.
   M.   Additional Duties: The Village Manager shall perform such other duties
as may be required of or assigned by the Board of Trustees, consistent with
Federal and State laws and Village ordinances. (Ord. 97-30, 12-15-1997)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Appointment, Term And Duties
1-7C-2: Bond And Oath
1-7C-3: Compensation
1-7C-4: Deputy Village Clerk
1-7C-5: Absence
1-7C-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM AND DUTIES:
The appointment, term and duties of the village clerk shall be as provided in
the Illinois municipal code, which is incorporated herein by reference, as it
now exists and as from time to time amended. (2004 Code)
1-7C-2: BOND AND OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of office, the clerk and deputy clerk shall
take and subscribe to the oath of office and execute a bond with security, to
be approved by the board of trustees, as provided by the Illinois municipal
code. (Ord. 98-8, 3-16-1998)
1-7C-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation to be received by the village clerk for each regular or
specially convened meeting of said board of trustees shall be the sum of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each such meeting attended by said village
clerk commencing April 1, 2009. (Ord. 09-05, 4-6-2009)
1-7C-4: DEPUTY VILLAGE CLERK:
   A.   Appointment Of Deputy Clerk: A deputy clerk shall be appointed by the
village president with the advice and consent of the board of trustees.
   B.   Duties Of Deputy Clerk: The deputy clerk has all of the rights, powers
and privileges of the clerk pursuant to the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 98-
8, 3-16-1998)
1-7C-5: ABSENCE:
In the absence of both the clerk and deputy clerk at any meeting of the board
of trustees, the village president may appoint a clerk pro tem. (Ord. 98-8, 3-
16-1998)
ARTICLE D. FINANCE OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Finance Director
1-7D-2: Village Treasurer
1-7D-3: Budget Officer
1-7D-1: FINANCE DIRECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby created the position of finance director
who shall be appointed and removed at the discretion of the village manager.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The finance director shall ensure the proper, efficient, and
effective receipt and disbursement of all village funds, maintain proper,
efficient, and effective systems for accounts receivable, accounts payable,
payroll, financial reporting, internal financial, administrative and accounting
controls, and financial records, and otherwise maintain the village of West
Dundee's financial systems and perform such activities as necessary and as
required by state or federal law or regulations, ordinance or as directed by
the village manager.
   C.   Bond Requirements: The finance director shall execute a bond in an
amount as established by the Illinois Compiled Statutes conditional upon the
faithful performance of his duties, with a surety company as surety thereon.
   D.   Outside Interests: The finance director shall not have an interest
directly or indirectly in any contract, work, or business for or with the
village, or in the sale of any article to the village, or in the purchase of
any property belonging to the village.
   E.   Handling Of Funds: The finance director shall keep all monies belonging
to the village separate and distinct from his own monies and is prohibited from
using, either directly, the village money in his custody, or any interest
collected thereon, for his own use and benefit or for that of any other person,
and shall ensure that these prohibitions and requirements apply to all other
employees of the finance department. The finance director shall keep the
village manager and village attorney apprised at all times of any actual or
potential financial irregularity.
   F.   Organization Of The Finance Department: The finance department shall be
organized as determined by the finance director with the approval of the
village manager.
   G.   Municipal And Fiscal Year: The municipal and fiscal year of the village
of West Dundee shall commence on May 1 of each year and end on April 30 of the
next succeeding year, including both days. This section shall not affect the
beginning or ending terms of any licenses or permits issued by the village of
West Dundee unless expressly so provided in chapters dealing therewith. (2004
Code)
1-7D-2: VILLAGE TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby created the position of village treasurer.
The village treasurer shall be appointed by the village president subject to
the advice and consent of the board of trustees. The village finance director
may serve in the capacity as village treasurer.
   B.   Duties: The village treasurer shall be in compliance with the duties
and responsibilities as set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-35-40
through 5/3.1-35-85 as amended.
   C.   Bond And Oath: Before entering upon the duties of the office, the
village treasurer shall take and subscribe the oath of office as provided by
the Illinois Compiled Statutes and shall execute a bond to the village of West
Dundee in an amount established by such statutes. If the finance director
serves as village treasurer, a separate bond is not required.
   D.   Compensation: If the position of village treasurer is held by someone
other than the finance director, compensation shall be in an amount determined
and established from time to time by the village president and board of
trustees. (2004 Code)
1-7D-3: BUDGET OFFICER:
   A.   Appointment: The finance director of the village shall serve as the
budget officer of the village.
   B.   Duties: The budget officer shall comply with those duties and
responsibilities commonly known as the "budget officers act" and are outlined
in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.1 through 5/8-2-9.11.
   C.   Annual Budget: The village's annual budget for each fiscal year
beginning upon each May 1, shall be compiled and acted upon pursuant to the
requirements and procedures as set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
2-9.1 through 5/8-2-9.11 which are hereby adopted. These statutory provisions,
and the use of the authority granted therein, are generally set forth as
follows: (2004 Code)
      1.   Contents: Such budget shall contain estimates of revenues available
to the village for the fiscal year for which the budget is drafted, together
with recommended expenditures for the village and all the departments,
commissions and boards. Revenue estimates and expenditure recommendations shall
be presented in a manner which is in conformity with good fiscal management
practices. Substantial conformity to a chart of accounts, now or in the future
recommended by the national committee on governmental accounting, or the
Illinois auditor of public accounts, or the division of local governmental
affairs and property taxes of the Illinois department of revenue or successor
agencies, shall be deemed proof of such conformity. The budget shall contain
actual or estimated revenues and expenditures for the two (2) years immediately
preceding the fiscal year for which the budget is prepared. So far as possible,
the fiscal data for such two (2) preceding fiscal years shall be itemized in a
manner which is in conformity with the chart of accounts approved above. Each
budget shall show the specific fund from which each anticipated expenditure
shall be made.
      2.   Budget Changes: The budget officer shall have the power to delete,
or add to, or change or create subclasses within object classes budgeted
previously to any department to a limitation of ten percent (10%). The budget
officer shall notify the village board in writing of the changes. As in
compliance with the state statute, no revision of the budget shall be made
increasing the budget in the event the funds are not available to effectuate
the purpose of the revision.
      3.   Operating Reserve: A general fund operating reserve shall be
established, which shall consist of twenty five percent (25%) of the operating
expenditure by the general fund of the village during the prior twelve (12)
month period. Said operating reserve shall be the minimum cash and cash
equivalent unencumbered monies kept available to the village at all times. Said
reserve shall be reflected in the "equities" portion of the balance sheet in
the village's financial reports.
      4.   Village Facilities Capital Improvement Department: The budget
officer annually shall budget an amount not to exceed three percent (3%) of the
equalized assessed value of property subject to taxation by the municipality
for the purposes of specific capital improvements, repairs, and/or replacements
of municipal equipment, infrastructure or other tangible property, both real
and personal.
         a.   Expenditures for the capital improvement, repair or replacement
shall be budgeted in the fiscal year in which the capital improvement, repair
or replacement will occur and shall be budgeted within the village facilities
capital improvement department.
         b.   Upon the completion or abandonment of any object or capital
project, or should any surplus monies remain after the completion or
abandonment of any object for which the capital expenditures were inaugurated,
then such funds no longer necessary for capital improvement, repair or
replacement shall remain within the village facilities capital projects
department.
      5.   Contingencies: The annual budget may contain money set aside for
contingency purposes not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total budget, less
the amount set aside for contingency purposes, which monies may be expended for
contingencies upon a majority vote of the corporate authorities then holding
office.
      6.   Budget Presentation: Before the close of each fiscal year the budget
for the coming fiscal year shall be presented to the village president and
board of trustees for approval, as required by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
8-2-9.1 through 5/8-2-9.11.
      7.   Public Inspection, Notice And Hearing: The corporate authorities
shall make the tentative annual budget conveniently available to public
inspection for at least ten (10) days prior to the passage of the annual
budget, by announcement at a regular meeting of the corporate authorities.
Not less than one week after the tentative annual budget is available to public
inspection, and prior to final action on the budget, the corporate authorities
shall hold at least one public hearing on the tentative annual budget, after
which hearing or hearings the tentative budget may be further revised and
passed without any further inspection, notice or hearing.
Notice of the budget hearing shall be given by publication in a newspaper
having a general circulation in the village at least one week prior to the time
of the hearing.
      8.   Balanced Budget: Each annual budget shall be balanced. Expenditures
for a given fiscal year shall not exceed estimated revenues and reserves for
that fiscal year less amounts devoted to the operating reserve. (Ord. 96-18, 8-
19-1996)
ARTICLE E. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Attorneys
1-7E-2: Engineers
1-7E-1: ATTORNEYS:
The village may from time to time retain the services of one or more attorneys
to perform legal services as required by the village. (Ord. 02-26, 8-5-2002)
1-7E-2: ENGINEERS:
The village may from time to time retain the services of one or more engineers
to perform engineering services as required by the village. (Ord. 02-26, 8-5-
2002)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Creation And Composition
1-8A-2: Appointments
1-8A-3: Oath Of Members
1-8A-4: Chief Of Police
1-8A-5: Powers And Duties
1-8A-1: CREATION AND COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a police department hereinafter called the
department. The department shall consist of a chief and such other members of
the department as may from time to time be provided for by the village
president and board of trustees. (Ord. 91-15, 8-19-1991)
1-8A-2: APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   Chief Of Police: The head of the department shall be the chief. The
chief shall be appointed by the village manager subject to the advice and
consent of the board of trustees for an indefinite period of time. The chief
need not be appointed from the members of the department, but if appointed from
the members of the department, the appointment need not be from the rank next
below the chief, but may be appointed from among members of the department
regardless of rank. The village manager, may suspend or discharge the chief for
cause, at any time. In the event the chief is discharged, said person shall
revert to their permanent rank in the department, if any, as established by the
board of fire and police commissioners. (Ord. 91-15, 8-19-1991; amd. Ord. 98-
20, 9-14-1998; 2004 Code)
   B.   Lieutenant Of Police: The second in command of the police department
shall be the lieutenant of police. The lieutenant of police shall be appointed
by the police chief with the advice and consent of the village manager, for an
indefinite period of time. The lieutenant of police need not be appointed from
the members of the department, but if appointed from members of the department,
the appointment need not be from the rank next below the lieutenant of police,
but may be appointed from among members of the department regardless of rank.
   C.   Full Time Police Officers: The full time position of police officer,
sergeant, and full time ranks other than the chief of police or lieutenant of
police shall be appointed by the board of fire and police commissioners as
provided in their adopted rules and regulations.
   D.   Rank: The order of rank in the police department shall be: chief of
police, lieutenant of police, sergeant, and patrol officer. (Ord. 10-14, 5-17-
2010)
   E.   Part Time Police Officers:
      1.   Employment: The village of West Dundee may employ part time police
officers from time to time as they deem necessary.
      2.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the
responsibilities of a full time police officer and such specific duties as
delineated in the general orders of the West Dundee police department, but the
number of hours a part time police officer may work within a calendar year is
restricted. Part time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or
direct full time police officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in
accordance with the Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and
requirements of the ILETSB.
      3.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
         a.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
         b.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
         c.   Pass a medical examination.
         d.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
         e.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
         f.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
         g.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
      4.   Discipline: Part time police officers shall be under the
disciplinary jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time police officers
serve at the discretion of the village of West Dundee authorities, shall not
have any property rights in said employment, and may be removed by the village
of West Dundee authorities at any time. Part time police officers shall comply
with all applicable rules and general orders issued by the West Dundee police
department. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-20-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
1-8A-3: OATH OF MEMBERS:
The chief and all other members of the department, before entering upon the
duties of their office, shall take the oath of office prescribed by the
village. (Ord. 91-15, 8-19-1991)
1-8A-4: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Supervision Of Department: The chief shall be responsible for the
operation of the police department, and shall have control and responsibility
of the department and all police equipment belonging to the village. The chief
shall report and be responsible to the village manager for the operation of the
department. All members of the department shall perform such duties as may be
required of them by the chief and the ordinances of the village.
   B.   Absence Or Inability Of Police Chief: During the absence or inability
of the chief to act, an officer from the next senior rank of the department, as
designated by the chief, or such member of the department as may be designated
in writing by the village manager, shall perform the duties of the chief.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   Report Of Incidents: The chief shall prepare and submit to the
village manager, on a monthly basis, a report of all incidents that have taken
place in the village.
      2.   Annual Budget: The chief shall prepare and submit to the village
manager an estimate of the total cost and expense of providing for and
maintaining the department during the ensuing fiscal year, which estimate shall
be submitted in the form and at the time required by the village manager. (Ord.
91-15, 8-19-1991; amd. Ord. 98-20, 9-14-1998)
      3.   Records: The chief shall keep a full and complete record of all
transactions of the department, of all property in his charge, as well as such
records as shall be required to conduct the business of the department. (Ord.
91-15, 8-19-1991)
1-8A-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General: Members of the department shall enforce all laws of the United
States Of America, the state of Illinois and the ordinances of the village.
They shall also perform all such duties as are now or will hereafter be
required of them by this or any other ordinance of the village or any rules or
regulations adopted by the village pertaining in any manner to the police
department. Every member of the department is a conservator of the peace.
   B.   Rules And Regulations: All officers and employees of the department are
subject to the rules and regulations of the department as promulgated by the
chief and the adopted village personnel policies and procedures. All employees
appointed by the board of fire and police commissioners are also subject to the
rules and regulations of the board of fire and police commissioners. Each
member of the department shall be furnished copies of said rules and
regulations. Any employee of the department appointed by the board of fire and
police commissioners shall be subject to discharge or disciplinary action of
the board of fire and police commissioners, or subject to suspension for a
period not to exceed five (5) days by the chief. (Ord. 91-15, 8-19-1991)
ARTICLE B. FIRE AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Creation And Composition
1-8B-2: Appointments
1-8B-3: Residency Requirements
1-8B-4: Oath Of Members
1-8B-5: Chief Of Department
1-8B-6: Department Requirements
1-8B-7: Ambulances
1-8B-8: Ambulance Schedule Of Fees
1-8B-9: Mitigation Rates Based On Per Hour
1-8B-1: CREATION AND COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a fire department hereinafter called the
department. The department shall consist of a chief and such other members of
the department as may from time to time be provided for by the village
president and board of trustees. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-8B-2: APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   The head of the department shall be the chief. The chief shall be
appointed by the village manager subject to the advice and consent of the board
of trustees for an indefinite period of time. The chief need not be appointed
from the members of the department, but if appointed from the members of the
department, the appointment need not be from the rank next below the chief, but
may be appointed from among members of the department regardless of rank.
The village manager may suspend or discharge the chief for cause, at any time.
In the event the chief is discharged, said person shall revert to their
permanent rank in the department, if any, as established by the board of fire
and police commissioners.
   B.   In the absence of the chief, the second in command of the department
shall be the shift lieutenant or the lead firefighter/paramedic.
   C.   The full time position of firefighter/paramedic, lieutenant, and full-
time rank other than the chief and captain shall be appointed by the board of
fire and police commissioners as provided in their adopted rules and
regulations.
   D.   The order of rank in the fire department shall be: chief of fire,
lieutenant of fire and lead firefighter/paramedic. (Ord. 10-14, 5-17-2010; amd.
Ord. 2024-07, 3-4-2024)
1-8B-3: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Full time members of the fire department shall be domiciled within a
thirty-five (35) mile radius of the intersection of State Route 72 and State
Route 31. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2024-07, 3-4-2024)
1-8B-4: OATH OF MEMBERS:
The chief and all other members of the department, before entering upon the
duties of their office, shall take the oath of office prescribed by the
village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-8B-5: CHIEF OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Supervision Of Department: The chief shall be responsible for the
operation of the fire department, and shall have control of all fire and
emergency medical service apparatus belonging to the village. The chief shall
report and be responsible to the village manager for the operation of the
department. All members of the department shall perform such duties as may be
required of them by the chief and the ordinances of the village.
   B.   Absence Or Inability Of Fire Chief: During the absence or inability of
the chief to act, an officer from the next senior rank of the department, as
designated by the chief, or such member of the department as may be designated
in writing by the village manager, shall perform the duties of the chief.
   C.   General Powers And Duties:
      1.   Annual Budget: The chief shall prepare and submit to the village
manager an estimate of the total cost and expense of providing for and
maintaining the department during the ensuing fiscal year, which estimate shall
be submitted in the form and at the time required by the village manager.
      2.   Report Of Incidents: The chief shall prepare and submit to the
village manager, on a monthly basis, a report of all incidents that have taken
place in the village.
      3.   Investigation Of Fires: The chief shall inquire into and investigate
causes of all fires in the village, as soon after their occurrence as
practical, and he shall keep a record of such investigations and the evidence
adduced thereby.
      4.   Records: The chief shall keep a full and complete record of all
transactions of the department, of all property in his charge, as well as such
records as shall be required to conduct the business of the department.
      5.   Inspection Of Apparatus: The chief, or his designee, shall examine
all fire engines, apparatus and fire hoses, as well as other life safety/
support equipment from time to time to ensure such engines, apparatus, fire
hoses and other life safety/support equipment are in good operating condition.
The chief shall file an annual report to the village manager, on or before
January 31 of each year, indicating the condition and state of readiness of all
fire engines, apparatus, fire hose and other life safety/support equipment
under his charge.
      6.   Removal Of Property: The chief shall have the power to cause the
removal of any property, whenever it becomes necessary for the preservation of
such property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect
adjoining property.
      7.   Destruction Of Buildings: The chief, or other officer in command,
may direct the firemen to cut down and remove any building, erection, or fence
for the purpose of stopping the progress of any fire, and the chief, or other
officer in command, shall have power to blow up or cause to be blown up, with
any explosive or other means, any building or erection during the progress of a
fire for the purpose of extinguishing or stopping same. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-8B-6: DEPARTMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Rules And Regulations: All officers and employees of the department are
subject to the rules and regulations of the department as promulgated by the
chief and the adopted village personnel policies and procedures. All employees
appointed by the board of fire and police commissioners are also subject to the
rules and regulations of the board of fire and police commissioners. Each
member of the department shall be furnished copies of said rules and
regulations. Any employee of the department appointed by the board of fire and
police commissioners shall be subject to discharge or disciplinary action of
the board of fire and police commissioners, or subject to suspension for a
period not to exceed five (5) days by the chief.
   B.   Uniforms: Each member of the department is required to wear a uniform
in accordance with regulations promulgated by the chief and a badge to be
furnished by the village, by which, in case of fire and at other times, the
relations of such members of the department may be known, as the exigencies of
their duties may require. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-8B-7: AMBULANCES:
The department shall operate such ambulance(s) as a municipal service as it
deems necessary. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-8B-8: AMBULANCE SCHEDULE OF FEES:
The following schedule of fees is hereby adopted for the village of West Dundee
fire department:
 
ALS base rate             $3,717.40
BLS base rate             $2,930.71
Mileage                   $16.00/per mile
Treatment - non transport $400.00
 
(Ord. 06-56, 11-20-2006; amd. Ord. 08-33, 7-21-2008; Ord. 2019-05, 4-15-2019;
Ord. 2021-08, 4-19-2021; Ord. 2024-07, 3-4-2024)
1-8B-9: MITIGATION RATES BASED ON PER HOUR:
The mitigation rates below are average “billing levels,” and are typical for
the incident responses listed, however, when a claim is submitted, it may be
itemized and based on the actual services provided.
These rates are based on actual costs using amortized schedules for apparatus
(including useful life, equipment, repairs, and maintenance). Labor rates
include an average department’s actual burdened labor costs and not just a
firefighter’s wage. These include wages, retirement, benefits, workers comp,
etc.
MOTOR VEHICLE INCIDENTS
MOTOR VEHICLE INCIDENTS
Level 1                                 $584.00
Provide hazardous materials assessment and scene stabilization.
Level 2                                 $667.00
Includes Level 1 services as well as clean up and material used (sorbents) for
hazardous fluid clean up and disposal.
Level 3 - Car Fire                      $813.00
Provide scene safety, fire suppression, breathing air, rescue tools, hand
tools, hose, tip use, foam, structure protection, and clean up gasoline or
other automotive fluids that are spilled as a result of the accident/incident.
Add-on Services:                         
Extrication                             $1,757.00
Includes heavy rescue tools, ropes, airbags, cribbing etc., if equipment is
deployed.
Creating a Landing Zone                 $537.00
Includes Air Care (multi-engine company response, mutual aid, helicopter)
HAZMAT                                   
Level 1                                 $943.00
Basic Response: Claim will include engine response, first responder assignment,
perimeter establishment, evacuations, set-up and command.
Level 2                                 $3,369.00
Intermediate Response: Claim will include engine response, first responder
assignment, hazmat certified team and appropriate equipment, perimeter
establishment, evacuations, set-up and command, Level A or B suit donning,
breathing air and detection equipment. Set-up and removal of decon center.
Level 3                                 $7,953.00
Advanced Response: Claim will include engine response, first responder
assignment, hazmat certified team and appropriate equipment, perimeter
establishment, evacuations, first responder set- up and command, Level A or B
suit donning, breathing air and detection equipment and robot deployment. Set-
up and removal of decon center, detection equipment, recovery and
identification of material. Disposal and environment clean up. Includes three
(3) hours of on scene time - each additional hour @ $381.00 per HAZMAT team.
FIRES
Assignment                              $538.00 per hour, per engine/$673.00
                                        per hour, per truck
                                        Scene safety
Includes:                               Investigation
                                        Fire/hazard control
ILLEGAL FIRES
Assignment                              $538 per hour, per engine/$673.00 per
                                        hour, per truck
When a fire is started by any person or persons that requires a fire department
response during a time or season when fires are regulated or controlled by
local or state rules, provisions or ordinances because of pollution or fire
danger concerns, such person or persons will be liable for tnse at a cost not
to exceed the actual expenses incurred by the fire department to respond and
contain the fire. Similarly, if a fire is started where permits are required
for such a fire and the permit was not obtained and the fire department is
required to respond to contain the fire the responsible party will be liable
for the response at a cost not to exceed the actual expenses incurred by the
fire department. The actual expenses will include direct labor, equipment costs
and any other costs that can be reasonably allocated to the cost of the
response.
WATER INCIDENTS
Level 1                                 Billed at $583.00 plus $66.00 per hour,
                                        per rescue person
Basic Response: Claim will include engine response, first responder assignment,
perimeter establishment, evacuations, first responder set- up and command,
scene safety and investigation (including possible patient contact, hazard
control).
Level 2                                 Billed at $1,077.00 plus $66.00 per
                                        hour, per rescue person
Intermediate Response: Includes Level 1 services as well as clean up and
material used (sorbents), minor hazardous clean up and disposal.
                                        Billed at $2,665.00 plus $66.00 per
Level 3                                 hour per rescue person, plus $134.00
                                        per hour per HAZMAT team member
Advanced Response: Includes Level 1 and Level 2 services as well as D.A.R.T.
activation, donning breathing apparatus and detection equipment. Set up and
removal of decon center, detection equipment, recovery and identification of
material. Disposal and environment clean up, including disposal rates of
material and contaminated equipment and material used at scene.
Level 4                                  
Itemized Response: Each incident may be billed as an independent event with
custom mitigation rates for each incident using itemized rates deemed usual,
customary and reasonable (UCR) per trained rescue person, plus rescue products
used.
BACK COUNTRY OR SPECIAL RESCUE
Itemized Response: Each incident will be billed with custom mitigation rates
deemed usual, customary and reasonable (UCR). These incidents will be billed,
itemized per apparatus per hour, per trained rescue person per hour, plus
rescue products used.
Minimum billed $538.00 plus $66.00 per hour, per rescue person. Additional
rates of $538.00 per hour per response vehicle and $66.00 per hour per rescue
person.
CHIEF RESPONSE
This includes the set-up of Command,
and providing direction of the          Billed at $337.00 per hour
incident, including operations, safety,
and administration of the incident.
MISCELLANEOUS/ADDITIONAL TIME ON-SCENE
                                        Engine billed at $538.00 per hour.
Additional Time On-Scene (for all       Truck billed at $673.00 per hour.
levels of service)                      Miscellaneous equipment billed at
                                        $404.00.
Mitigation Rate Notes:                   
The mitigation rates above are for one hour of service, for the incident
responses listed, however, when a claim is submitted, it shall be itemized and
based on the actual services provided.
 
         (Ord. 2024-07, 3-4-2024)
ARTICLE C. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Creation And Composition
1-8C-2: Community Development Director
1-8C-3: Liability Of Village
1-8C-1: CREATION AND COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a community development department. The community
development department shall consist of a community development director and
such other members of the department as may from time to time be provided for
by the village president and board of trustees. The community development
department shall be part of the ordinance enforcement department and is
authorized to issue ordinance violation notices as per the rules and
regulations of the administrative adjudication ordinance. (Ord. 08-05, 2-4-
2008)
1-8C-2: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: The head of the community development department shall be
the community development director. The community development director shall be
appointed by the village manager subject to the advice and consent of the board
of trustees for an indefinite period of time. The village manager may suspend
or discharge the community development director at any time.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The community development director shall:
      1.   Have managerial and supervisory responsibility for the village's
planning, zoning and appearance review processes, economic development program,
building and inspectional services.
      2.   Serve as staff liaison to the planning and zoning commission and the
appearance review commission and is responsible for the analysis and processing
of all development related proposals including subdivisions, zoning requests,
variations, special use applications, annexations, etc.
      3.   Supervise all functions related to the building permit and
construction inspection process and issue all permits required under title 9 of
this code.
      4.   Issue all necessary notices or orders to correct or remove illegal
or unsafe buildings or structures or conditions therein and issue compliance
notices for violations through the procedures contained in subsection
9-1A-2C of this code.
      5.   Determine compliance with zoning and certificate of occupancy
requirements as set forth in title 10 of this code.
   C.   Rules And Regulations: The community development director shall be
subject to and charged with the enforcement of all rules and regulations as
they apply to department personnel as adopted by the village. Each member of
the department shall be issued a copy of said rules and regulations and shall
acknowledge receipt of said copies by affixing their signatures upon a receipt
of acknowledgement provided by the village. (Ord. 08-05, 2-4-2008)
1-8C-3: LIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
This title shall not be construed as imposing upon the village any liability or
responsibility for damage resulting from defective plumbing or drainage
systems, or the installation thereof; nor shall the village, or any official or
employee thereof, be held as assuming any such liability or responsibility by
reason of the inspection authorized hereunder. (Ord. 08-05, 2-4-2008)
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Creation And Composition
1-8D-2: Appointments
1-8D-3: Public Works Director
1-8D-1: CREATION AND COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a public works department. The public works
department shall consist of a public works director and such other members of
the department as may from time to time be provided for by the village
president and board of trustees. (2004 Code)
1-8D-2: APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   Public Works Director: The head of the public works department shall be
the public works director. The public works director shall be appointed by the
village manager subject to the advice and consent of the board of trustees for
an indefinite period of time. The village manager may suspend or discharge the
public works director at any time. (2004 Code)
   B.   Second In Command: In the absence of the director, the second in
command of the department shall be the supervisor of utilities or the
supervisor of public works based on the director's recommendation. (Ord. 10-14,
5-17-2010)
1-8D-3: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
   A.   Supervision Of Department: The public works director shall have charge
of and supervision over all public property owned by the village, including all
streets, sidewalks, alleys, public ways, parkways, village owned buildings and
all other property of the village not specifically assigned to another officer
of the village.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The public works director shall:
      1.   Have charge of and be responsible for the care, maintenance and
operation of the village water supply and distribution system; stormwater
discharge and sanitary sewer distribution systems; and, all street and sidewalk
drainage.
      2.   Have charge of and be responsible for the care of the village owned
street lighting system and the maintenance, repair and extension thereof.
      3.   Monitor the performance of the third party contractor assigned the
duties and responsibilities of collection and disposal of garbage and refuse.
      4.   Have charge of and be responsible for the condition and repair of
public works department vehicles, equipment and the public works facilities.
      5.   Prepare and submit to the village manager an estimate of the total
cost and expense of operating the department during the ensuing fiscal year
submitted in the form and at the time as required by the village manager.
      6.   Keep and maintain a full and complete record of all transactions of
the department, of the property assigned and such records as required to
conduct the business of the department.
   C.   Rules And Regulations: The public works director shall be subject to
and charged with the enforcement of all rules and regulations as they apply to
department personnel as adopted by the village. Each member of the department
shall be issued a copy of said rules and regulations and shall acknowledge
receipt of said copies by affixing their signature upon a receipt of
acknowledgment form provided by the village. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 9
PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Employment Terms And Conditions
1-9-2: Compensation
1-9-3: Benefits
1-9-4: Equal Employment Opportunity
1-9-5: Anti-Harassment Policy
1-9-6: Americans With Disabilities Act
1-9-7: Victims’ Economic Security And Safety Act
1-9-8: Illinois Pregnancy Accommodation Act And Nursing Mothers Policy
1-9-9: Family And Medical Leave Act
1-9-10: Family Military Leave
1-9-11: Drug Free Workplace Act
1-9-12: Travel Expenses
1-9-13: General Rules
1-9-14: Discipline
1-9-15: Separation From Employment
1-9-16: COBRA Coverage
1-9-1: EMPLOYMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
The personnel policies and procedures of the village of West Dundee apply to
all employees of the village. Police officers and firefighters are also covered
by any and all additional policies and procedures adopted by their respective
departments, including, but not limited to, specific rules and regulations
applicable to each department regarding hiring, discipline, and termination.
While this chapter applies to all sworn police officers and firefighters, it is
also recognized that these full time sworn officers are also under the
jurisdiction of the police and fire commission. Therefore, where any provision
herein conflicts with the police and fire commission rules and regulations, the
police and fire commission rules and regulations shall control to the extent of
that specific conflict only.
In addition, any labor contracts that have been adopted by the village board of
the village of West Dundee shall take precedence over the terms and conditions
outlined in this personnel policies and procedures chapter.
   A.   At Will Employment: The village of West Dundee personnel policies and
procedures are not intended to and do not create a contract of employment
(expressed or implied) between any employee and the village. These policies and
procedures are intended only to describe employment provisions and do not
create a contract of employment between the village and any employee unless
there is a separate written agreement signed by both the employee and the
village manager. A contract for the village manager may be executed by the
village manager and the village president.
By law, an employee may terminate his or her employment at any time, with or
without cause, and with or without notice. The village may also terminate the
employment of any employee at any time, with or without cause, and with or
without notice. No section of these policies and procedures shall be
interpreted as giving up this right by any employee or the village.
These personnel policies and procedures supersede all other personnel rules,
regulations, policies, and procedures (either written or oral). The intent of
these policies and procedures is to outline the major employment practices of
the village of West Dundee. The village, at its sole discretion, reserves the
right to improve or change, from time to time and without notice, any terms or
provisions of these policies and procedures.
   B.   Employment Definitions:
   CASUAL EMPLOYEE: An employee who is scheduled to work on an "as needed" or
on call basis. Casual employees are not eligible for benefits.
   EXEMPT EMPLOYEE: An employee who is generally paid a set rate for the pay
period and who is not entitled to overtime compensation for hours worked in
excess of forty (40) hours in any given workweek. As outlined in the fair labor
standards act, bona fide executive, administrative, and professional employees
are exempt from overtime requirements if they meet the criteria for any
category.
   FULL TIME EMPLOYEE: One who is hired for an unspecified period of time and
has completed an applicable introductory period. A full time employee shall
work a minimum of forty (40) hours per week on a regular and continuing basis.
Employee benefits, as outlined in these policies and procedures, are available
to full time employees.
   LIMITED PART TIME EMPLOYEE: One who is hired for a specified or unspecified
period of time and works less than the number of hours required for
participation in his/her respective pension program. A limited part time
employee receives only those benefits as required by law.
   NONEXEMPT EMPLOYEE: An employee whose position does not meet the exemption
tests under the fair labor standards act and who is generally, although not
necessarily, paid by the hour and who is entitled to compensation at the rate
of one and one-half (11/2) times his/her hourly pay for all hours worked in
excess of forty (40) hours in a given workweek (except as provided otherwise in
this chapter).
   PART TIME EMPLOYEE: One who is hired for an unspecified period of time and
has completed an applicable introductory period. A part time employee is one
who works less than the minimum hours required for full time status, however,
works the minimum number of hours to participate in a pension fund offered by
the village of West Dundee (e.g., the Illinois municipal retirement fund, the
police pension fund, or the fire pension fund).
   REGULAR EMPLOYEE: See definition of "Full Time Employee".
   TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE: An employee who is hired for a specific job and for a
specified period of time. A temporary employee is not eligible for benefits.
   C.   Filling Of Vacancies:
In order to provide growth opportunities for all employees, all full time
vacancies shall be announced, by posting, to present employees. In addition to
internal job postings, applicants may be recruited from outside of the
organization. The recruitment of a qualified applicant for a job vacancy shall
include the review of all applicants on file. Depending upon the type of
position, additional recruitment services, such as the placement of newspaper
advertisements, announcements in professional journals, and the contacting of
colleges, businesses and/or trade schools may be utilized. It is the village's
policy to select the most qualified individual available for each position
based upon the required knowledge, skills and abilities for the position, as
reflected in the corresponding class specification. To determine whether an
applicant qualifies for a position, factors such as level of education,
previous experience, the personal interview, and references shall be utilized.
Depending upon the specific position being filled, other methods, such as
written tests, practical tests and/or assessment centers, may be used and the
results considered in determining the applicant's ability to perform the duties
assigned to the respective position.
A current employee who applies for a vacancy within the organization shall be
judged according to the same established factors as a new applicant. In
addition, his/her work performance with the village shall be taken into
consideration.
All employees, except sworn police officers and firefighters, shall be hired
and terminated by their department director subject to prior approval of the
village manager. If the village manager's position is vacant, prior approval of
the village board of trustees is required. Sworn police officers and
firefighters shall be hired, disciplined, and terminated pursuant to the rules
and regulations of the board of fire and police commission. The village manager
will provide notification to the village president and board of trustees of the
hiring and termination of all full time personnel of the village.
   D.   Medical Examinations: All applicants who are offered full time
employment with the village will be required to successfully complete a
physical examination by a physician approved by the village, which will include
a drug test, as a condition of employment. The costs of such testing will be
borne by the village. In addition, regular part time employees, at the
recommendation of the department director, may be required to undergo such
medical examination and/or drug testing prior to the commencement of work.
   E.   Hiring Of Relatives: Two (2) or more members of an immediate family
shall not be employed in the same department or under the same immediate
supervisor. In addition, no individual shall hold a position which has
influence over the employment, promotion, supervision, salary, or other related
management or personnel administration activities of a member of their
immediate family. For purposes of this section, immediate family shall include
the spouse, parent, brother, sister, child, grandparent, or grandchild of the
employee and his/her spouse. Deviations from this policy may occur only with
the recommendation of the village manager and approval by the village board.
   F.   Hours Of Work: The village of West Dundee's regular office hours are
Monday through Friday, eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four thirty o'clock (4:30)
P.M. Regular full time employees are expected to work eight (8) hours per day,
forty (40) hours per week. Full time sworn police officers may work, depending
on their assignments, other than an eight (8) hour shift. Full time sworn
firefighters will work, depending on their assignments, either an eight (8)
hour or twenty four (24) hour shift. The department of public works may vary
its work hours with the approval and consent of the village manager, provided
that the full time standard of forty (40) hours per week is maintained.
All employees are expected to report for work promptly at their designated
time. The standard workweek as well as lunch/meal hours of individual employees
may vary as a result of the operational demands of each department (provided
that the total regular hours in the workweek for full time employees will be 40
hours). Regular full time employees may receive up to one unpaid hour for a
lunch/meal break.
Those employees working less than eight (8) hours per any given shift may
receive a fifteen (15) minute break for each full four (4) hour schedule they
work. A part time employee who is scheduled to work five (5) or more
consecutive work hours on any given day may receive one unpaid lunch/meal hour,
which should be taken close to the middle of the employee's workday. Such
scheduling of breaks and lunch/meal hours shall be subject to the discretion of
the respective departments.
All employees shall report promptly to their designated place of work at the
designated starting time and shall devote their entire efforts during working
hours to their assigned duties.
   G.   Pay Periods: Employees shall be paid biweekly, receiving their
compensation on Thursdays for the prior period's work. If this day falls on a
holiday, checks may be distributed on the preceding workday.
   H.   Personnel Files: A personnel history file shall be maintained for all
full time and regular part time employees of the village. Such files shall be
kept in accordance with the policies established by the state's statutory
provisions pertaining to the keeping and maintaining of village records. Once
this period is no longer in effect, all such records may be destroyed. The
following are examples of items which may be kept in an employee's personnel
file:
      Commendation forms and letters.
      Disciplinary notices.
      Employment application/resume.
      Incident reports.
      Orientation materials.
      Overtime records.
      Performance appraisals.
      Registrations/certificates/degrees.
      Sick time records.
      Tax forms.
      Time sheets.
      Vacation requests.
      Medical data, physical examination records, and workers' compensation
claims shall be maintained separately from the personnel file. Physical
examination records, test results, and performance evaluation forms shall be
accessible only to the village manager and his/her designee, the department
director and his/her designee, and the employee involved. This accessibility
will be for official purposes only.
Employees hired after November 6, 1986, are subject to employment verification
using the U.S. immigration and naturalization service I-9 form. All I-9 forms
and copies of supporting documentation are to be maintained in a separate file.
In addition to the personnel file maintained by the village, sworn firefighters
and police officers will have a personnel file that will be maintained by the
fire and police commission which will contain the documents regarding hiring,
promotion, discipline, and termination decisions regarding the sworn
firefighter or police officer.
An employee has the right to periodically inspect his/her personnel file. In
order to do so, the following steps are to be followed:
      1.   A written request from the employee to inspect the file is to be
made to the village manager.
      2.   Every employee will normally be allowed to inspect the file within
seven (7) days from the date of the written request. If the village cannot
reasonably meet this seven (7) day time period, it is allowed to provide an
extension for an additional seven (7) day period.
      3.   Employees will be allowed to inspect the personnel file during
normal working hours, unless other arrangements are agreed upon. No employee
can remove his/her file from the village's premises, but the employee may
request that the village mail a copy of the personnel file if the employee is
reasonably unable to inspect the file on village premises. If this is done, the
village reserves the right to assess a reasonable fee for copying/mailing
requested documents.
      4.   By law, some items may be kept in an employee's personnel file which
the employee has no legal right to inspect. Such items may include letters of
reference, testing documents, materials relating to the village's staff
planning, information about other people if allowing inspection of those
documents would invade the privacy of the people referred to, records involving
the employee which are relevant to the judicial proceeding between the village
and the employee, and records alleging criminal activity.
If an employee disagrees with any information contained in his/her personnel
file, the information may be removed or corrected by mutual agreement of the
village manager and the employee. If such agreement cannot be reached, the
employee may submit a written statement of his/her position, which will be
attached to the disputed document.
   I.   Problem Solving: It is the policy of the village of West Dundee to
maintain an effective employer/employee relationship through the prompt
consideration and equitable adjustment of employee problems.
An employee shall first present any problem which arises to his/her immediate
supervisor who shall make careful inquiry into the facts and circumstances of
the complaint and shall attempt to resolve it properly and fairly.
An employee who is dissatisfied with the response of the immediate supervisor
may, upon prior notification, present the issue to his/her department director
who, after a thorough investigation of the situation, will notify the employee
of his/her decision.
A problem which remains unresolved after the department director's review
shall, upon written notification to the department director, be submitted in
writing to the village manager. After a thorough review by the village manager,
the village manager may hold an informal meeting with all involved parties in
order to resolve the problem. The village manager may then render a decision in
writing and copy all parties involved. This decision shall be deemed final.
This section is not applicable in cases of harassment or discrimination
complaints. For complaints of this nature, the policies contained in sections
1-9-4 and 1-9-5 of this chapter will be followed. (Ord. 05-04, 2-21-2005; amd.
Ord. 2019-34, 12-16-2019)
1-9-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Merit Compensation Plan: It is the goal of the village of West Dundee
to compensate all employees of the village with a salary commensurate with the
relevant labor market value of their position and individual job performance.
Major objectives of the village's merit compensation plan include:
      1.   To provide for recognition of, and reward for, differences on
individual employee performance.
      2.   To ensure internal equity and consistency within and between the
various departments of the village.
      3.   To establish and maintain salary rates which are competitive with
the prevailing rates of compensation for comparable work in comparable public
jurisdictions and private firms within the area; thereby allowing the village
to attract and retain a qualified work force.
      4.   To provide standard methods and procedures for establishing and
applying rates of pay throughout the organization.
   B.   Starting Rate Of Compensation: As part of the annual budget process,
the village manager shall present to the village board a listing of all
authorized full time positions within the village and the minimum/maximum pay
range for each such position.
When the education, training, or experience of the applicant is substantially
superior to the requirements of the position and justifies a beginning salary
in excess of the minimum compensation, the village manager may, upon the
recommendation of the department director, authorize an appointment to a
position at a higher rate of pay within the appropriate pay range.
The village manager may also authorize an appointment to a position at a higher
rate of pay within the appropriate pay range when a particularly difficult
recruiting problem for a position is found to exist.
   C.   Performance Appraisals: Full time employees of the village should
receive, as a minimum, an annual performance evaluation on a form approved by
the village manager. All performance evaluations must be in written form and
discussed personally with the employee.
Based on the results of the employee's performance evaluation, employees may be
eligible for a salary increase according to merit one time per year.
Regular part time employees may receive the annual cost of living increases
that may be awarded to full time employees. They are not, however, part of the
village's "step plan" that is in place for full time employees and their rate
of compensation will be periodically reviewed by the village manager.
   D.   Overtime: All nonexempt employees are eligible for overtime
compensation. Those executive, administrative, and professional employees, as
identified by the village manager using the guidelines established by the state
of Illinois, are not eligible to receive overtime compensation.
All nonexempt employees eligible for overtime compensation will be paid for
time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a workweek at one and one-half
(11/2) times their regular or base rate of pay. These provisions may vary if
the employee is a member of a bargaining unit and their contract stipulates
otherwise. Sworn police and fire department employees will be paid overtime
compensation pursuant to section 553.230 of title 29 of the code of federal
regulations. The only hours which will not be counted as hours worked are the
hours the employee has for excused sick time.
Procedures for overtime are as follows:
      1.   Overtime scheduling in all village departments must be approved by
the department director prior to the scheduling of overtime. Exceptions can be
made to account for the providing of emergency services. "Emergency services"
can be defined as severe weather conditions, utility system breakdown, or
necessary public safety measures.
      2.   No village employee will be paid overtime compensation for attending
school, training sessions, or department meetings unless attendance is required
by the village and cannot be scheduled during regular working hours. Time
required to travel to and from such sessions will not qualify for overtime
compensation.
      3.   Overtime compensation shall be paid in increments of fifteen (15)
minutes. An employee called back to work after having left work, or while
otherwise off duty, shall be compensated for a minimum of two (2) hours' pay,
unless the time extends to his/her regular work shift, in which case the
employee will be compensated only for the actual time worked outside his
regular shift. The employee will receive no minimum compensation if the
employee is called back to rectify his/her own error, instead, the employee
will receive straight compensation for actual time worked or overtime pay if
the work qualifies for overtime. If the employee who is called back works for
more than two (2) hours, he/she shall be compensated for the actual time
worked.
   E.   Compensatory Time: Nonexempt employees may elect compensatory time in
lieu of overtime compensation. This election of compensatory time off in lieu
of overtime compensation must be agreed to between the employee and his/her
supervisor prior to the work being performed, otherwise, overtime compensation
shall be paid.
Compensatory time off, if elected and approved by the employee's supervisor,
will be granted at a rate of one and one-half (11/2) hours of compensatory time
off for every hour of overtime worked. Employees may accumulate up to a maximum
of eighty (80) hours of compensatory time. Any overtime exceeding eighty (80)
hours of compensatory time off will be paid as overtime compensation.
All compensatory time off accumulated but not used prior to May 1 of each year
exceeding forty (40) hours will be paid off as overtime compensation and will
be paid at the regular rate earned by the employee at the time the employee
receives such payment. The remaining compensatory time earned (not to exceed 40
hours) shall remain and may be utilized as described above. Upon termination,
an employee shall be paid for unused compensatory time off at a rate of
compensation not less than:
      1.   The average regular rate received by such employee during the last
three (3) years of employment; or
      2.   The final regular rate received by such employee, whichever is
greater.
   F.   Working Out Of Classification: Employees temporarily assigned to
another position with a higher rate of compensation may be compensated at the
starting rate of pay for the higher position, or receive a five percent (5%)
pay increase (whichever is greater) for all hours so worked with the approval
of the village manager.
   G.   Additional Compensation; State Fire Marshal Certification: In order to
recognize and reward those firefighters/paramedics who have achieved the office
of the state fire marshal certification as fire officer level I, they are to be
awarded an additional sum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per year, payable as
of May 1 of each year.
      Fire lieutenants who have achieved the office of the state fire marshal
certification as fire officer level II are to be awarded an additional sum of
six hundred dollars ($600.00) per year, payable as of May 1 of each year.
   H.   Wage Notifications: Each pay period, employees will receive written
notification of their hours worked, rate of pay, overtime pay and overtime
hours, gross wages, an itemization of all deductions, wages and deductions year
to date.
   I.   Severance: The village will not grant severance except through a
written agreement signed by the employee and by the village board.
   J.   Method Of Payment: Employees will not be paid in cash. Employees will
be paid by direct deposit unless they elect to be paid by check.
   K.   Recordkeeping: Regardless of an employee’s status as either an exempt
employee executive, the village shall make and maintain, for a period of not
less than three (3) years, the following true and accurate records for each
employee: the name and address, the hours worked each day in each work week,
the rate of pay, copies of all notices provided to the employee under this
policy, the amount paid each pay period, all deductions made from wages or
final compensation, and the number of vacation days earned for each year and
the dates on which vacation days were taken and paid.
   L.   Notice Of Rate Of Pay And Changes In Pay: The village will notify an
employee in writing, at the time of hiring, of the rate of pay. An employee
commencing work shall reflect mutual assent to the rate of pay, i.e., a
description of all wages and compensation of any kind.
      The village shall not change an agreement regarding the payment of wages
and compensation without first notifying the employee prior to the effective
date of the change. The village shall place the arrangement in writing at the
time of the change and present the change to the employee unless impossible to
do so, but in any event such written notice shall be provided as soon as
practicable. (Ord. 05-04, 2-21-2005; amd. Ord. 2019-34, 12-16-2019)
1-9-3: BENEFITS:
Employee benefits are part of the village's overall compensation plan and are
intended to encourage loyal service to the village. Major benefits and service
programs include vacations, insurance coverage, retirement programs, and
training.
   A.   Vacation: All regular full time employees may receive a stated vacation
period with pay. Part time employees who work a minimum of one thousand (1,000)
hours on an annual basis and participate in a village sponsored retirement
program shall receive a prorated amount of vacation time based on the number of
hours actually worked in comparison to that of a full time employee. Vacation
days must be taken during the calendar year in which they are earned, or the
vacation accrual will be lost. In unusual circumstances, vacations may be
postponed to not later than the next calendar year upon recommendation of a
department director and approval of the village manager. Any vacation days
carried over to the next calendar year must be used by April 30 of that year.
In the event of a postponed vacation, not more than one year's vacation period
shall be taken at one time without the prior approval of the village manager.
Employees will begin to accrue vacation in the first full calendar month of
employment. Employees may not take the accrued vacation until after they have
completed one hundred eighty (180) days of service. Vacation earned shall be
determined by length of service and shall be in accordance with the following
schedule:
Length Of Service Full Time Employee 24 Hour Shift
Length Of Service                  Full Time Employee   24 Hour Shift
First partial year of employment   6.67 hours per month 10.00 hours per month
Completed calendar years 1–5     80 hours per year    120 hours per year
Completed calendar years 6–13    120 hours per year   168 hours per year
Completed calendar years 14–20   160 hours per year    
Completed calendar years 14–24                       216 hours per year
Completed calendar year 21         168 hours per year    
Completed calendar year 22         176 hours per year    
Completed calendar year 23         184 hours per year    
Completed calendar year 24         192 hours per year    
Completed calendar year 25 or more 200 hours per year   240 hours per year
 
Vacation schedules shall be determined in each department by the department
director. Individual employee convenience will be considered, but village needs
will dictate actual dates. If a conflict in scheduling arises, a lottery will
be drawn to determine vacation scheduling. Employees must submit vacation
requests to their supervisors no later than thirty (30) days prior to the
requested vacation.
Vacation time must be taken in blocks of time of no less than four (4) hours.
Upon separation from employment, a lump sum payment of earned vacation benefits
will be provided to all employees.
The following positions shall be entitled to three (3) vacation days each year
in addition to their regular accrued vacation: finance director, director of
public works, fire chief, police chief, community development director and
police lieutenant.
The village manager's position shall be entitled to five (5) additional
vacation days in addition to his regular accrued vacation.
Employees on leave of absence without pay shall not accrue vacation during the
period of their leave.
Any and all references to vacation days noted on an employee's payroll stub are
for general reference and planning purposes only and do not affect the normal
accrual process as described above. Thus, if an employee leaves prior to the
completion of the year, the vacation days will be prorated as described above.
   B.   Holidays: The village observes the following twelve (12) paid holidays:
      New Year's Day
      Good Friday
      Memorial Day
      Independence Day
      Labor Day
      Thanksgiving
      Christmas Day
      Five (5) floating holidays
When any holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as
the paid holiday. If the holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday
shall be observed as the paid holiday. Nonexempt employees are not eligible for
holiday pay until after they have completed thirty (30) days of service.
The five (5) floating holidays must be used each calendar year or else they
will be lost. Employees hired after January 1 of any year shall receive a
prorated number of floating holidays which is calculated on the number of full
completed months worked in that given year.
Floating holidays must be taken in blocks of time of no less than eight (8)
hours (12 hours for a 12 hour shift or 24 hours for a 24 hour shift).
Exceptions to this procedure must be prior approved by the department director.
Any employee who wishes to take a day off conforming to their religious/
personal beliefs (in addition to the holidays listed above) may, with proper
notification to their department director, take the day off as a vacation day,
floating holiday, or without pay.
If an employee is required to work on a scheduled holiday, they should be
compensated as follows:
      1.   Holiday pay for eight (8) hour positions:
         a.   If the employee works on an established holiday, the employee
shall be paid eight (8) hours' holiday pay plus straight time for any time
actually worked. If regular hours are in excess of forty (40) hours for that
workweek, the pay rate will be time and one-half for every hour worked in
excess of forty (40) hours.
         b.   If scheduled to work but take the holiday off: Eight (8) hours'
holiday pay.
         c.   If not scheduled and do not work: Eight (8) hours' holiday pay.
      2.   Holiday pay for twelve (12) hour positions:
         a.   If holiday is worked: Twelve (12) hours' holiday pay plus twelve
(12) hours' regular pay. If regular hours worked are also in excess of forty
(40), pay rate will be time and one-half for every hour worked over forty (40).
         b.   If scheduled to work but take the holiday off: Twelve (12) hours'
holiday pay.
         c.   If not scheduled and do not work: Eight (8) hours' holiday pay.
      3.   Holiday pay for twenty four (24) hour positions:
         a.   If the employee works on an established holiday, the employee
shall be paid twenty four (24) hours' holiday pay plus straight time for any
time actually worked. Holiday pay shall be considered as time worked for
overtime benefits that the employee may be entitled to for that seven (7) day
work period.
         b.   If scheduled to work but take the holiday off: Eight (8) hours'
holiday pay.
         c.   If not scheduled and do not work: Eight (8) hours' holiday pay.
Note: Holiday pay for part time firefighters shall be administered as follows:
All holidays, with the exception of Christmas Day and New Year's Day will be
observed from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the day of the holiday to seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. the following day. Christmas Day and New Year's Day will be
observed from five o'clock (5:00) P.M. the previous day to five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. the day of the holiday.
Part time employees who work a minimum of one thousand (1,000) hours on an
annual basis and participate in a village sponsored retirement program shall
receive a prorated amount of holiday hours based on the number of hours
actually worked in comparison to that of a full time employee.
   C.   Sick Leave, Absences, And Tardiness:
      1.   Sick Leave: The village provides all regular full time employees
paid sick leave to enable the employee to have available a period of
compensated time off in the event of illness or injury. Part time employees who
work a minimum of one thousand (1,000) hours on an annual basis and participate
in a village sponsored retirement program shall receive a prorated amount of
sick leave hours based on the number of hours actually worked in comparison to
that of a full time employee. The village encourages all eligible employees to
accumulate as many sick leave hours as possible to help ensure continuous
payment for serious illness or medical leave. Sick leave benefits may be used
for the following purposes:
         a.   Any personal illness or injury.
         b.   Employees may use paid sick leave benefits for absences due to an
illness, injury, or medical appointment of the employee’s child, spouse,
sibling, parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchild, grandparent, or
stepparent, for reasonable periods of time as the employee’s attendance may be
necessary, on the same terms upon which the employee is able to use sick leave
benefits for the employee’s own illness or injury.
The use of paid sick leave benefits for absences due to an illness, injury, or
medical appointment of the employee’s child, spouse, domestic partner, sibling,
parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandchild, grandparent, or stepparent is
limited to the personal sick leave that would be accrued during six (6) months
at the employee’s then current rate of entitlement. In other words, fifty
percent (50%) of an employee’s accrued sick days are available to use to take
care of relatives.
The term “paid sick leave benefits” means time accrued and available to an
employee to be used as a result of absence from work due to personal illness,
injury, or medical appointment, but does not include other absences from work
for which compensation is provided by the village.
      2.   Provisions Of Sick Leave Policy: The provisions of the sick leave
policy are as follows:
         a.   Employees will begin to accrue paid sick leave after they have
completed one hundred eighty (180) days of service. Thereafter, each individual
employee may accrue eighty (80) hours of sick pay per calendar year (120 hours
for 24 hour shift) with a maximum of eight hundred eighty (880) sick hours at
any point during their employment with the village (1,320 hours for 24 hour
shift). Sick leave shall accrue at the rate of 6.67 hours for each full
completed month of employment (10 hours for 24 hour shift).
         b.   Each January, the village will buy back from covered employees
all unused sick leave in excess of eight hundred (800) hours (1,200 hours for
24 hour shift) which had been accrued and earned at the end of the prior
calendar year at fifty percent (50%) of the employee's straight time hourly
rate of pay. This fifty percent (50%) "buy back" may be transferred to an equal
amount of vacation days upon the request of the employee and the approval of
the department director.
         c.   Employees who have used all of their sick days and who become ill
may use any outstanding vacation days or floating holidays or may take a sick
day without pay. Employees on leave of absence without pay shall not accrue
sick leave during the period of their leave.
         d.   Illness or injury requiring absence from work must be reported to
the employee's supervisor before the assigned starting time or as soon as
possible before the start of the employee's shift. The employee is responsible
for making a daily report thereafter for the duration of the illness or injury.
An employee whose job requires a substitute for a particular shift must give
notice at least two (2) hours in advance of his or her assigned starting time.
Three (3) consecutive days' absence without notice will be considered voluntary
termination of employment by the employee. A medical certificate may be
required for sick leave of more than two (2) consecutive days or in instances
where the employee is suspected by their department director of abusing the
sick leave policy, with prior approval of the village manager.
         e.   Failure to provide proper notice or a medical certificate upon
request may result in disciplinary action, up to and including immediate
termination of employment.
         f.   Sick leave must be used in blocks of time of no less than two (2)
hours except for instances where the employee is to attend a scheduled medical
appointment which cannot be scheduled during the employee's nonwork hours, in
which case, they may take sick leave in two (2) hour increments upon prior
notice and approval from their superior.
         g.   Any and all references to sick days on an employee's payroll stub
are for general reference and planning purposes only and do not affect the
accrual process as described above.
         h.   Any employee who retires from the village in good standing and is
eligible to receive a pension (IMRF, police pension, fire pension) within a six
(6) month period following their retirement shall receive fifty percent (50%)
of all accrued earned unused sick leave. Minimum service levels to the village
for each pension classification shall be as follows:
 
IMRF Tier I    8 years' employment with the village of West Dundee
IMRF Tier II   8 years’ employment with the village of West Dundee
Police pension 20 years' employment with the village of West Dundee
Fire pension   20 years' employment with the village of West Dundee
 
      3.   Sick Leave Abuse: Abuses of the sick leave benefits will not be
tolerated. Sick claims will be investigated fully for their validity by the
department director or his/her designee, and sick leave may be disallowed.
   D.   Funeral Leave: Regular full time employees may be given up to three (3)
days with pay upon the death of a member of his/her immediate family.
"Immediate family" is defined as the employee's spouse, parent, stepparent,
child 1 , stepchild 2 , brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, or
grandparent. This leave may be extended for an additional two (2) days (5 days
total) upon the recommendation of the department director and prior approval of
the village manager.
   E.   Child Bereavement Leave Policy:
This policy has been adopted by the village pursuant to the Illinois Child
Bereavement Leave Act, 820 ILCS 154 (the “Act”), and shall be interpreted and
implemented to be consistent with the Act.
As used in this policy, “child” means an employee’s son or daughter who is a
biological, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, a legal ward, or a child of
a person standing in loco parentis. This policy shall apply to all employees
who are covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) of 1993.
All employees shall be entitled to use a maximum of two (2) weeks (ten (10)
work days) of unpaid bereavement leave to: (1) attend the funeral or
alternative to the funeral of a child; (2) make arrangements necessitated by
the death of the child; or (3) grieve the death of the child.
This bereavement leave must be completed within sixty (60) days after the date
on which the employee receives notice of the death of the child. The employee
must provide the village with at least forty-eight (48) hours’ advance notice
of the employee’s intention to take bereavement leave, or as soon as possible
if forty-eight (48) hours is not practicable and reasonable under the
circumstances.
In the event of the death of more than one child in a twelve-month period, an
employee is entitled to up to a total of six (6) weeks of bereavement leave
during that twelve-month period. However, consistent with the Act, the employee
shall not be able to combine child bereavement leave with FMLA leave such that
the employee would take more than six (6) weeks of unpaid leave in a twelve-
month period.
Employees may choose to substitute any number of days of other paid or unpaid
leave (which they may have accrued or to which they may be entitled) for the
equivalent number of days of child bereavement leave to which they may be
entitled under this policy and the Act. Employees electing to substitute other
leave in this manner must notify the village prior to taking child bereavement
leave.
   F.   Jury/Witness Duty: An employee shall be given time off without loss of
pay or accumulated benefits when asked to serve on a jury or when subpoenaed to
appear before a court, public body, or commission with or arising from village
business. Any compensation received as a result of serving on jury duty shall
be signed over to the village of West Dundee.
No employee will receive pay for time not worked while acting as a witness in
any manner not related to the village or the employee's employment with the
village. No employee will receive pay for time not worked while participating
in an action filed by the employee against the village.
Employees summoned to jury duty or subpoenaed to testify in court or other
proceedings must immediately notify their department director so that proper
arrangements for the employee's absence may be made. Failure to timely notify
their department director may result in the employee not being compensated for
such civil duty.
   G.   Employee Voting Leave: Under the Illinois Employee Voting Leave Act, 10
ILCS 5/17-15, eligible employees may receive up to two (2) hours of paid time
off for the purpose of voting on election day after obtaining approval from
their department head prior to the day of the election.
To be eligible for this benefit, the employee must be entitled to vote and
unable to cast their vote between the time of opening and closing the polls.
   H.   Employee Blood Donation Leave: Under the Illinois Employee Blood
Donation Leave Act, 820 ILCS 149/1, eligible employees may receive up to one
(1) hour of paid time off every 56 days for the purpose of donating blood after
obtaining approval from their department director.
To be eligible for this benefit, the employee must be a regular full-time
employee who has been employed for a period of six (6) months or more.
   I.   Employee School Visitation Leave: Under the Illinois School Visitation
Rights Act, 820 ILCS 147/1, eligible employees may receive up to eight (8)
hours of unpaid time off during the school year to attend necessary educational
or behavioral conferences at the school their children attend after obtaining
approval from their department director.
To be eligible for this benefit, the employee must be a regular employee who
has been employed for a period of six (6) months or more and has exhausted all
accrued paid off-time and holiday time. The employee must also present the
village with a verification statement from the school within two (2) working
days of the unpaid leave to be eligible for the benefit protections afforded
under the Act.
   J.   Military Leave: Employees will be granted unpaid military leave as
required by State and Federal law.
In accordance with the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights
Act (USERRA), and the Illinois Service Member Employment and Reemployment
Rights Act (ISERRA), reemployment rights generally extend to persons who have
been absent from a position of employment because of service in the uniformed
services. Service in the uniformed services means the performance of duty on a
voluntary or involuntary basis in a uniformed service, including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Active Duty and Active Service (See 330 ILCS 61/1-10).
      2.   Active Duty Training.
      3.   Inactive Duty Training.
      4.   Funeral Honors Duty (See 10 U.S.C. 12503: 32 U.S.C. 115).
      5.   Reserve Component Active Service (See 330 ILCS 61/1-10).
In general, to be eligible for reemployment:
      1.   The village must have advance notice of the employee's service;
      2.   The employee must timely return to work or apply for reemployment;
and
      3.   The employee must not be separated from service with a disqualifying
discharge or under other than honorable conditions.
Procedures:
      1.   As soon as an employee is aware that he or she will be absent
because of service in the uniformed services, the employee must notify his or
her supervisor. Notification in writing is preferred, but verbal notification
is acceptable. This is only for purposes of notice, and not to seek permission.
No permission is required to take military leave, but advance notice is
required to secure the employee's rights under this policy and the related
laws.
      2.   Under Illinois law, an employee who will be absent because of
service in the uniformed services may, in some circumstances, be eligible to
receive "differential pay," i.e., his or her regular compensation minus his or
her base pay for military services. Illinois law controls in the event of any
conflict between it and this policy. Employees may also be entitled to
concurrent compensation under ISERRA. Differential pay and concurrent pay will
be provided according to ISERRA and any implementing regulations.
During leaves for annual training, where applicable under Illinois law, an
employee can continue to receive his or her regular compensation. Further,
during leaves for basic training, active service or inactive duty as defined in
ISERRA, and for any other training or duty required by the United States Armed
Forces, if the employee's compensation for military activities is less than his
or her compensation as an employee, he or she can be eligible under Illinois
law to receive his or her regular compensation as an employee minus the amount
of his or her base pay for military activities. Illinois law controls in the
event of any conflict between it and this policy.
An employee who is a member of any reserve component of the United States Armed
Services, including the Illinois National Guard, who is mobilized to active
military duty as a result of an order of the President of the United States,
can be eligible under Illinois law to continue to receive the same regular
compensation that he or she receives as an employee at the time he or she is
mobilized to active military duty, plus any health insurance and other benefits
he or she is receiving or accruing at that time, minus the amount of his or her
base pay for military service, for the duration of his or her active military
service. Illinois law controls in the event of any conflict between it and this
policy.
      3.   Except as otherwise provided by law, health care coverage for
employees on military leave will continue for thirty-one (31) days as long as
employees pay their normal premium co-payments of the cost of benefits. For
military leave lasting longer than thirty-one (31) days, employees will be
eligible to continue health benefits under USERRA and will be required to pay
one hundred two percent (102%) of the total cost of their health benefits if
they wish to continue benefits. However, employees on military leave for active
service shall not have to pay any portion of their health premiums. The
employee may opt to discontinue participation in the group health insurance
program but is entitled to re-enroll upon the return to active employment.
Please contact Human Resources for further information. Illinois law controls
in the event of any conflict between it and this policy.
      4.   For the time spent on military leave, the employee's performance
evaluation or rating shall be no less than the average rating or evaluation
over the three (3) years immediately preceding the military leave.
Return To Work:
      1.   Generally, employees returning from military leave service are
eligible to be reemployed in the job that they would have attained had they not
been absent for military service, with the same seniority status and pay, as
well as other rights and benefits determined by seniority.
      2.   The period an employee has to make application for reemployment or
report back to work after military service is based on time spent on military
duty. For service of less than thirty-one (31) days, the service member must
return at the beginning of the next regularly scheduled work period on the
first full day after release from service, taking into account safe travel home
plus an eight-hour rest period. For service of more than thirty (30) days but
less than one hundred eighty-one (181) days, the service member must submit an
application for reemployment within fourteen (14) days of release from service.
For service of more than one hundred eighty (180) days, an application for
reemployment must be submitted within ninety (90) days of release from service.
EMRF Continuation:
Participation in IMRF will continue with the IMRF employee contribution being
deducted from the village issued compensation. The employee will be responsible
for paying the required contribution on the difference (applicable military
pay) between the village issued compensation and their normal village
compensation.
   K.   Extended Leave: An extended leave of absence, without pay, may be
granted to employees.
A request for an extended leave must be approved by the village manager. An
extended leave, with the exception of military leave, shall not be granted for
more than six (6) months.
An employee who has been granted an extended leave shall be retained on the
village's health/life policy if, and only if, a prior payment of the premium by
the employee is submitted each month to the finance department of the village.
In no case shall the village pay health and life insurance premiums for an
employee who has been granted an extended leave of absence. Fringe benefits
accrued by an employee prior to an approved extended leave shall be carried
over until the time of return. No fringe benefits, however, shall be
accumulated by the employee during the period of the extended leave.
The employee requesting an extended leave shall submit to the village manager
in writing the type of and reason for the extended leave, the date the leave is
to begin and the anticipated date of return. The employee shall notify the
village manager of his/her intention to return to work from an extended leave
not less than fourteen (14) calendar days in advance of the date indicated on
the employee's written request for the leave. Failure to return to work within
two (2) days after the expiration of the approved extended leave shall be
considered a resignation, not in good standing.
An extended leave of absence may be granted in the following situations:
      1.   Extended Illness Or Injury Not Covered Or No Longer Covered By The
Family And Medical Leave Act Policy: An employee who has completed a minimum of
one year of service with the village shall be eligible for a leave of absence
resulting from an extended illness or injury. Such a leave will be granted when
the employee's and/or the village's physician states that the employee is, and/
or will become, temporarily disabled and unable to work for a specific period
of time.
A leave for an extended illness or injury shall not be granted until all
accrued sick leave has been exhausted or thirty (30) continuous calendar days
have elapsed. During a leave for extended injury or illness, the employee shall
be required to submit monthly medical progress reports to the village. The
employee, upon his/her return from medical leave of absence, shall provide a
medical certification confirming the employee's ability to perform the duties
assigned to his/her position.
Dependent upon the nature of the injury or illness, an employee with less than
one year of service may be granted a leave of absence at the discretion of the
village manager.
      2.   Emergency Leave: A leave of absence for a reasonable period of time
may be granted by the village manager because of an emergency or personal
crisis which compels time off from work. Such a leave will be granted only when
the situation "demands" the employee's time or presence and, as a practical
matter, the employee could not be expected to work.
      3.   Family And Medical Leave: The village of West Dundee shall grant
extended leaves that are in accordance with the Family And Medical Leave Act.
Return From Leave: Employees considering a leave of absence (other than FMLA
leave) must be aware that the village will not hold their jobs open for them
during the period of leave. There is no assurance of reinstatement in any
capacity at the conclusion of the leave. If there is an open position for which
the employee is qualified at the conclusion of his or her leave, the employee,
along with all other qualified candidates, will be considered for the position.
   L.   Training: Expenses for village required training, including tuition,
fees, supplies, and books, will be reimbursed by the village. Travel, lodging,
and other related costs will be reimbursed pursuant to the village travel
expense policy.
Employees attending village required training conferences, seminars, or
conventions are required to submit a report to their department director, or,
in the case of a department director, to the village manager, summarizing and
reviewing the topics and information received, including a recommendation on
the value of the training for village service programs, along with any
additional information requested by the department director, village manager,
or village board.
Reimbursement for voluntary training sessions is available. To be eligible for
reimbursement, the employee must notify and receive written approval from his
or her department director and the village manager no later than January 1 of
the fiscal year prior to the year the employee wishes to attend the training.
Reimbursement may be made for tuition, required books, or required class
materials, according to the following schedule, only after completion of the
course or training session:
 
 
Grade A    90 percent reimbursement
Grade B    80 percent reimbursement
Grade C    75 percent reimbursement
Grades D/F No reimbursement
 
The village will only consider reimbursement for training if the training is
directly related to municipal businesses or directly related to the employee's
position within the village. Training or classes which an educational
institution requires to be taken as a core class, or which are taken to satisfy
general degree requirements, will be considered for reimbursement. Tuition
reimbursement shall not exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per any given
year or a lifetime maximum per employee of eight thousand dollars ($8,000.00).
   M.   Retirement: All full time and part time employees working more than one
thousand (1,000) hours per year on a regular basis, excluding sworn police
officers and firefighters, shall be covered under the Illinois municipal
retirement fund (IMRF). The police department has established a police pension
fund for all full time sworn police officers of the department. The fire
department has established a firefighters' pension fund for all full time sworn
firefighters of the department. The cost of all pension plans shall be shared
by both the employees and the village of West Dundee. Participation in each
plan is subject to the rules and regulations of the respective plans.
   N.   Health Insurance: Health insurance is offered to all full time
employees of the village. Coverage commences on the first day of the month
following thirty (30) days of service. The employee portion of the cost of the
program will be paid through payroll deductions.
Those employees retiring from the village of West Dundee, and are eligible to
draw a pension from the Illinois municipal retirement fund, the village of West
Dundee police pension fund, or the village of West Dundee firefighters' pension
fund, may at their option, purchase at full premium cost, health insurance from
the village of West Dundee. Such employees may remain on the village's group
plan as long as the premiums are paid until they are eligible for Medicare.
Health insurance benefits and premiums are subject to periodic review by the
village.
   O.   Life Insurance: Life insurance shall be provided to all full time
employees, with the effective date coinciding with the village's health
insurance program. Term life insurance benefits shall be in the amount of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00). Life insurance benefits will cease at the
termination of employment and are not able to be purchased separately after
resignation, termination, or retirement.
   P.   Workers' Compensation: Workers' compensation is compensation for a
disability or death which is the result of an injury or illness suffered in the
course of employment. The cost of this coverage is borne by the village of West
Dundee.
If an employee is injured on the job, no matter how minor or insignificant the
injury may seem, the employee must:
      1.   Make a full written report on his or her condition and the
circumstances surrounding the injury, including all witnesses, immediately (or
as soon as practically possible) after the injury or illness. The village will
provide the required reporting forms and are available from his/her department
director as well as the village manager.
      2.   The written report shall be submitted to the employee's department
director as soon as possible after the injury or illness but, in no event later
than three (3) days after the injury or illness. The department director will
immediately forward a copy of the report to the village manager.
      3.   Failure of the employee to report the injury or illness, or to
report for any physical examination as required or scheduled by the village or
its workers' compensation carrier, may result in disciplinary action, up to and
including immediate termination of employment.
If an employee is injured on the job, the employee is eligible to receive
compensation pursuant to the state regulations regarding workers' compensation.
The village's health insurance program does not cover workers' compensation
claims and therefore, such bills shall not be filed under that policy. For the
first thirty (30) working days following the date of the work related injury or
disability, the village will pay the difference between the compensation
received from any source and the employee's regular base pay for that period.
Those employees covered under other state statutes (such as sworn police and
fire personnel), will receive workers' compensation benefits in accordance with
these statutes.
   Q.   Deferred Compensation Program: Both full time and regular part time
employees of the village are eligible to participate in the deferred
compensation program offered by the village. This program allows an employee to
set aside income prior to taxation. The amounts agreed upon to be deferred, and
the investment earnings on these dollars, are allowed to accumulate without
current personal income tax. An employee, therefore, pays no federal or state
income tax on the deferred amount until the value of the deferred account is
returned to the employee either at retirement, at which time the employee may
be in a lower tax bracket, or when the employee withdraws from the plan.
Deferred compensation programs are governed by the federal government and are
subject to periodic changes.
   R.   Credit Union: Those employees who regularly receive a biweekly paycheck
from the village are eligible to have funds from their paycheck directly
deposited into an account at the Kane County Teachers Federal Credit Union. For
additional information, please contact the finance department. (Ord. 05-04, 2-
21-2005; amd. Ord. 06-59, 12-4-2006; Ord. 09-08, 4-20-2009; Ord. 10-14, 5-17-
2010; Ord. 2019-34, 12-16-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-9-3.E, Child Bereavement Leave Policy.
2 1. See subsection
  1-9-3.E, Child Bereavement Leave Policy.
1-9-4: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY:
The village assures equal employment opportunity in all of its employment
practices, including those pertaining to:
   Compensation
   Demotions
   Hiring
   Layoff and recall
   Other benefits
   Placement
   Practices
   Promotions
   Recruitment
   Terminations
   Training
   Transfers
These will be administered without regard to race, color, creed, religion,
ancestry, national origin, age, mental or physical disability, sex, marital
status, veteran status, sexual orientation including gender-related identity,
whether or not traditionally associated with the person’s designated sex at
birth, or any other basis prohibited by applicable federal, state, or local
fair employment laws or regulations.
It is the responsibility of every village official and employee to give this
policy full support by leadership and personal example. In addition, it is the
duty of every village official and employee to create a job environment which
is conducive to this policy.
Overall responsibility for the direction and enforcement of this equal
employment opportunity policy has been assigned to the village manager.
Any employee who believes that he or she has been treated unfairly because of
his or her race, color, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin, age, mental
or physical disability, sex, marital status, veteran status, sexual orientation
including gender- related identity, whether or not traditionally associated
with the person’s designated sex at birth, or any other basis prohibited by
applicable federal, state, or local fair employment laws or regulations, should
immediately submit a written report of the incident to the village manager. If
an employee believes that he or she has been treated unfairly in any of these
areas by the village manager, the employee should submit a written report to
the immediate attention to a member of the village board.
All written complaints of discrimination or unfair treatment based on race,
color, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin, age, mental or physical
disability, sex, marital status, veteran status, sexual orientation including
gender-related identity, whether or not traditionally associated with the
person’s designated sex at birth, or any other basis prohibited by applicable
federal, state, or local fair employment laws or regulations, will be promptly
investigated and the appropriate corrective action taken. After investigation,
any department supervisor or other employee found to have violated the
village's policy will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment.
The village will not in any way retaliate against an individual who makes a
report of discrimination or unfair treatment based on race, color, creed,
religion, ancestry, national origin, age, mental or physical disability, sex,
marital status, veteran status, sexual orientation including gender-related
identity, whether or not traditionally associated with the person’s designated
sex at birth, or any other basis prohibited by applicable federal, state, or
local fair employment laws or regulations, nor will the village permit any
other village official or employee to do so. Retaliation is a serious violation
of this policy and should be reported immediately. Any person found to have
retaliated against another individual for reporting discrimination or unfair
treatment will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment. (Ord. 05-04, 2-21-2005; amd. Ord. 2019-34,
12-16-2019)
1-9-5: ANTI-HARASSMENT POLICY:
   A.   Introduction: The village desires to have a professional working
environment for its employees so that they may carry out their duties in
productive and positive surroundings. Although conduct may not rise to the
level of unlawful harassment from a legal perspective, the village wants to
protect its employees from abuse and to prevent conduct from becoming so severe
or pervasive as to alter the conditions of an employee's employment, create an
abusive, intimidating or hostile working environment, or result in a tangible
employment action. Accordingly, the village has adopted a "zero tolerance"
policy against harassment. Harassment is unwarranted and unwanted verbal or
nonverbal conduct that threatens, intimidates, annoys or insults another person
where such conduct has the purpose or effect of creating an offensive,
intimidating, degrading and/or hostile working environment and/or interferes
with and/or adversely affects a person's performance.
      The village prohibits any form of unlawful harassment against its
employees and applicants for employment based on factors such as sex (including
sexual harassment, gender harassment, and harassment based on pregnancy,
childbirth, or related medical conditions), race, color, creed, religion,
ancestry, national origin, age, mental or physical disability, marital status,
veteran status, sexual orientation including gender-related identity, whether
or not traditionally associated with the person's designated sex at birth, or
any other basis prohibited by applicable federal, state, or local fair
employment laws or regulations.
   B.   Sexual Harassment: With respect to sexual harassment, the village
prohibits any unwelcome sexual advances, request for sexual favors, and other
verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment; or
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      3.   Such conduct may have the purpose or effect of unreasonably
interfering with an individual's work performance; or
      4.   Such conduct may create an intimidating, hostile, or offensive
working environment.
      Examples of the types of conduct that would violate the village's policy
including the following:
         Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
         Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature, viewing
pornographic material or websites.
         Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         Textual/Electronic: "sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
      The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person."
      Both opposite sex and same sex harassment are prohibited under this
policy.
   C.   Other Forms Of Harassment: With respect to other forms of harassment,
the village prohibits slurs or other verbal or physical conduct relating to
matters such as race, color, creed, religion, ancestry, national origin, age,
mental or physical disability, marital status, veteran status, sexual
orientation including gender-related identity, whether or not traditionally
associated with the person's designated sex at birth, or any other basis
prohibited by applicable federal, state, or local fair employment laws or
regulations which:
      1.   May have the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile,
or offensive working environment; or
      2.   May have the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an
individual's work performance; or
      3.   Otherwise may adversely affect an individual's employment
opportunities.
   D.   Coverage Of The Policy:
      1.   The village's "zero-tolerance" policy with respect to harassment
applies to conduct in or connected to the workplace, whether it is physical or
verbal, and whether it is committed by village officials, department heads,
fellow employees or non-employees (such as customers, vendors, suppliers, or
business invitees). The conduct prohibited by this policy is not only
unacceptable in the workplace itself but also at any other work-related setting
such as holiday parties, gatherings or other work-related social events, on
business trips, and at conferences, seminars, educational gatherings, and other
meetings. Each village official and department head is responsible for creating
an atmosphere free of harassment, whether it is sexual or another form of
harassment. In addition, all employees are responsible for respecting the
rights of their fellow employees and for cooperating in any investigation of
alleged harassment.
      2.   Responsibilities:
      Each employee is responsible for assisting in prevention of harassment
through the following acts:
         Refraining from participation in, or encouragement of, actions that
could be perceived as harassment;
         Reporting acts of harassment; and
         Encouraging any employee, who confides that he/she is being harassed,
to report these acts of harassment.
      Each supervisor shall be responsible for preventing acts of harassment.
These responsibilities include:
         Monitoring the workplace environment on a daily basis for signs that
harassment may be occurring.
         Counseling all employees on the types of behavior prohibited and the
village's procedures for reporting and resolving complaints of harassment.
         Stopping any observed acts that may be considered harassment and
taking appropriate steps to intervene, whether or not the involved employees
are within his/her line of supervision.
         Taking immediate action to limit the work contact between employees
where there has been a complaint of harassment, pending investigation.
      Each supervisor has the responsibility to assist any employee, who comes
to that individual with a complaint of harassment, in documenting and filing a
complaint in accordance with this policy.
      Failure to take action to stop known harassment will result in
disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment.
   E.   Reporting And Investigating Alleged Harassment: While the village
encourages individuals who believe they are being harassed to firmly and
promptly notify the offender that his or her behavior is unwelcome, the village
also recognizes that power and status disparities between an alleged harasser
and a target may make such a confrontation impossible. In the event that such
informal, direct communication between individuals is either ineffective or
impossible, or even when such communication between the individuals has
occurred, the following steps should be taken to report a harassment complaint:
      1.   Reporting Of The Incident: All village employees and officials are
urged to report any suspected harassment by another employee or official to the
village manager except where the village manager is the individual accused of
harassment. In that case, the complaint should be reported to village
president. If the victim prefers to report the suspected harassment to someone
of the opposite sex from that of the village manager or village president, the
complaint can be reported to a village trustee. The report may be made
initially either verbally or in writing, but reports made verbally must be
reduced to writing before an investigation can be initiated and a resolution
achieved.
      2.   Investigation Of The Complaint: When a complaint has been reduced to
writing, the village manager or other person receiving the complaint will
initiate an investigation of the suspected harassment. The investigation will
include an interview with the individual(s) who made the initial report, the
person(s) toward whom the suspected harassment was directed, and the individual
(s) accused of the harassment. Any other person who may have information
regarding the alleged harassment may also be interviewed.
      3.   Preparation Of A Written Report: The person responsible for
investigating the complaint shall prepare a written report. The report shall
include a finding that harassment occurred, harassment did not occur, or there
is inconclusive evidence as to whether harassment occurred. A copy of the
report will be given to the individual(s) who made the initial report, the
person(s) to whom the suspected harassment was directed, and the individual(s)
accused of the harassment.
      Where a hostile work environment has been found to exist, the village
will take all reasonable steps to eliminate the conduct creating such an
environment.
      4.   Keeping Of Records And The Confidentiality Of Such Records:
Employees or other persons who report incidents of harassment are encouraged to
keep written notes in order to accurately record the offensive conduct. Every
effort shall be made to keep all matters related to the investigation and
various reports confidential. In the event of a lawsuit, however, the village
advises that those records maintained by the village and any records maintained
by the complainant may not be considered privileged from disclosure.
   F.   Time Frame For Reporting Harassment: The village encourages prompt
reporting of complaints so that rapid response and appropriate action may be
taken. Thus, all complaints should be reported within six (6) months of the
alleged harassment.
   G.   No Retaliation: No village official or employee shall take any
retaliatory action against any village employee due to a village employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy;
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or change in
the terms or conditions of employment of any village employee that is taken in
retaliation for a village employee's involvement in protected activity pursuant
to this policy.
      No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a report
made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will be
protected from retaliation.
      Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any village officer or employee that
the village employee reasonably believes is in violation of a law, rule, or
regulation;
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any village officer or employee; or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
      Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer may
not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
      According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire,
to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or
participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
      An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge, due within three hundred (300) days (IDHR) or three hundred
(300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation.
   H.   Disciplinary Action: If any village employee engages in conduct that
violates this policy, or other conduct that the village believes is
unprofessional, that employee will be subject to discipline up to and including
termination of employment. In addition to any and all other discipline that may
be applicable pursuant to municipal policies, employment agreements,
procedures, employee handbooks and/or collective bargaining agreement, any
person who violates the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS
430/5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
per offense.
   I.   Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report Of Sexual Harassment
Pursuant To 5 ILCS 430/70-5: A false report is a report of sexual harassment
made by an accuser using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end
other than stopping sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual
harassment. A false report of sexual harassment is not defined as a report made
in good faith but which cannot be proven. Rather, a false complaint of sexual
harassment is defined as an intentionally made false or frivolous report or bad
faith allegation. Given the seriousness of the consequences for the accused,
any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging sexual harassment
shall be subject to discipline up to and including termination of employment.
      In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the state officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an ethics commission, an inspector general, the state police, a state's
attorney, the attorney general, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
   J.   External Procedures: The village hopes that any incident of harassment
can be resolved through the internal procedures outlined above. Employees of
the village, however, have the right to file formal harassment charges
including charges of retaliation with the Illinois Department of Human Rights
(the "IDHR") and/or with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (the
"EEOC"). A charge with the IDHR must be filed within three hundred (300) days
of the harassing incident. A charge with the EEOC must be filed within three
hundred (300) days of the incident. It is unlawful for an employer to retaliate
against an employee for filing a charge of harassment with the IDHR or the
EEOC.
      The IDHR may be conducted as follows:
         Chicago: (312) 814-6200         Chicago TDD: (312) 263-1579
         Springfield: (217)785-5100         Springfield TDD: (217)785-5125
      The EEOC may be conducted as follows:
         Chicago: (312) 353-2713      Chicago TDD: (312) 353-2421
         Chicago: (800) 669-4000      Chicago TDD: (800) 669-6820
(Ord. 2019-34, 12-16-2019)
1-9-6: AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT:
It is the policy of the village of West Dundee to comply with all provisions of
the Americans with disabilities act ("ADA") and the Illinois Human Rights Act.
The village will not discriminate against any qualified employee or job
applicant with respect to any term or condition of employment based on a
physical or mental disability or the perception of a physical or mental
disability. If an individual is qualified to perform the essential and
fundamental functions associated with a job, the village will make reasonable
accommodations as necessary for applicants and employees with disabilities,
provided that such accommodations do not pose a threat to safety or cause an
undue hardship to the village.
Any applicant or employee who believes that he or she has been discriminated
against based on a physical or mental disability, or based on a perception that
they suffer from a physical or mental disability, should take the following
steps:
   A.   Reporting Of The Incident: Make a report of any suspected violation of
the ADA to the village manager. The report may be made initially either orally
or in writing, but reports made verbally must be reduced to writing before an
investigation can be initiated and a resolution achieved. If the complaint
involves the village manager, then the report of any suspected violation of the
ADA should be made to the village president.
   B.   Investigation Of The Complaint: When a complaint has been reduced to
writing, the village manager or village president, as the case may be, will,
within five (5) working days, meet with the complainant to determine the nature
of the complaint. If it is determined that a disability does not exist, the
village manager/president will so notify the complainant in writing within five
(5) working days of their meeting. If it is determined that a disability does
exist, the village manager/president will determine whether a reasonable
accommodation can be made and, if so, what that reasonable accommodation is.
   C.   Keeping Of Records And The Confidentiality Of Such Records: Applicants
or employees who submit a written complaint of a violation of the ADA are
encouraged to keep written notes in order to accurately record the chain of
events. Every effort shall be made to keep all matters related to the
investigation and various reports confidential. In the event of a lawsuit,
however, the village advises that those records maintained by the village and
any records maintained by the complainant may not be considered privileged from
disclosure. Written records will be maintained by the village for two (2) years
from the date of the resolution, unless new circumstances dictate that the
records should be kept for a longer period of time.
   D.   Time Frame For Reporting Complaints: The village encourages prompt
reporting of complaints so that rapid response and appropriate action may be
taken. Thus, all complaints of disability discrimination should be made within
six (6) months from the date of the alleged discrimination. (Ord. 05-04, 2-21-
2005; amd. Ord. 2019-34, 12-16-2019)
1-9-7: VICTIMS' ECONOMIC SECURITY AND SAFETY ACT:
   A.   Statement Of Policy: In accordance with the victims' economic security
and safety act (VESSA) and subject to the conditions stated below, the village
will grant eligible employees reasonable accommodation, including job-protected
leave during which health insurance will be maintained as if the employee were
working full-time and after which the employee will be reinstated to the same
or equivalent position.
   B.   VESSA Leave: If an employee, or a household or family member of the
employee, is a victim of domestic or sexual violence as defined by VESSA, the
employee may take leave in accordance with VESSA for the purposes below.
      1.   Permissible Purposes For Leave:
         a.   Seeking medical attention for, or recovering from, physical or
psychological injuries caused by domestic or sexual violence to the employee or
the employee's family or household member;
         b.   Obtaining services from a victim services organization for the
employee or the employee's family or household member;
         c.   Obtaining psychological or other counseling for the employee or
the employee's family or household member;
         d.   Participating in safety planning, temporarily or permanently
relocating, or taking other actions to increase the safety of the employee or
the employee's family or household member from future domestic or sexual
violence or ensure economic security; or
         e.   Seeking legal assistance or remedies to ensure the victim's
health and safety of the employee or the employee's family or household member,
including preparing for or participating in any civil or criminal legal
proceeding related to or derived from domestic or sexual violence.
      2.   Period And Schedule: An employee shall be entitled to a total of
twelve (12) weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month period. The leave may be
taken all at once, intermittently, or on a reduced work schedule.
      3.   Notice: The employee must give at least forty-eight (48) hours
advance notice of his or her intention to take VESSA leave unless such notice
is not practical. If the employee takes an unscheduled absence, the village
will require certification pursuant to the following section.
      4.   Certification: The village may, in its sole discretion, require the
employee seeking VESSA leave to provide certification that the employee or
family or household member is a victim of domestic or sexual violence as
defined by VESSA, and that the leave sought is for one of the permitted
purposes. The employee must provide certification as soon as practicable after
the village requests certification. To the extent permitted by law, any
certification provided to the village will be confidential. Examples of valid
certification are:
         a.   Documentation from an employee, agent, or volunteer of a victim
services organization, an attorney, a member of the clergy, or a medical or
other professional from whom the employee or the employee's family or household
member has sought assistance in addressing domestic or sexual violence and the
effects of the violence;
         b.   A police or court record; or
         c.   Other corroborating evidence.
   C.   Maintenance Of Benefits:
      1.   Returning To Work: An employee returning to work after taking VESSA
leave shall be entitled to his or her current position or an equivalent
position, with no loss of benefits accrued prior to the date of leave. However,
employees are not entitled to accrue seniority, benefits, rights, or positions
for the period of leave, even if such leave is intermittent or on a reduced
work schedule. Further, the village shall be entitled to require the employee
to report periodically on the employee's status and intention to return to
regular employment.
      2.   Health Benefits: Health insurance for the employee and any family or
household members will be maintained in full during any VESSA leave. The
village may recover premiums paid during leave if the employee fails to return
to work after the allotted leave expires in certain circumstances.
   D.   Other Leave: This policy does not create a right for an employee to
take unpaid leave that exceeds the unpaid leave time allowed under, or is in
addition to the unpaid leave time permitted by the family and medical leave
act. Employees may substitute paid benefit time off for the unpaid leave
allowed under VESSA.
   E.   Employment Sustainability: The village will not discharge, retaliate or
discriminate against an employee based on the employee's having been a victim
of domestic or sexual abuse, the employee's request for or taking of VESSA
leave, or the employee's request for a reasonable job-related accommodation
based on actual or threatened domestic or sexual violence. The village will
endeavor to provide qualified employees subject to VESSA a reasonable
accommodation so as to allow employee to continue working for the village so
long as it does not pose an undue hardship for the village. (Ord. 2019-34, 12-
16-2019)
1-9-8: ILLINOIS PREGNANCY ACCOMMODATION ACT AND NURSING MOTHERS POLICY:
The village supports employees who are pregnant, have recently given birth, or
who have a medical or common condition related to their pregnancy or
childbirth. The village will not discriminate against any qualified employee or
job applicant with respect to any term or condition of employment based on
their pregnancy or medical condition related to pregnancy or childbirth. If an
individual is qualified to perform all of the essential and fundamental
functions associated with a job, the village will make reasonable
accommodations as necessary for employees or applicants, provided that such
accommodations do not pose a threat to safety or cause an undue hardship to the
village. In addition, the village will not force pregnant employees to accept
unrequested accommodations; will not force a pregnant employee to take leave if
reasonable accommodations can be provided for; and will reinstate the employee
to an original or equivalent position, pay, seniority, and benefits upon her
return from work.
   A.   Requesting A Reasonable Accommodation: Employees may request reasonable
accommodations when she knows that there is a workplace barrier that may
prevent her, due to pregnancy or a medical condition related to pregnancy or
childbirth, from effectively competing for a position, performing a job, or
gaining equal access to a benefit of employment. A request for reasonable
accommodation is the first step in an informal, interactive process between the
employee and the village. All requests for a reasonable accommodation shall be
made to the village manager. If the employee wishes to discuss the
accommodation with a female supervisor, she can also contact a member of the
village board of trustees. In some instances, before addressing the merits of
the accommodation request, the village will need to determine if the
individual's medical condition meets the definition of disability under the
Illinois Pregnancy Accommodation Act.
      If it is determined that a disability does not exist, the village manager
will so notify the complaining party in writing as soon as practical after
their meeting. If it is determined that a disability does exist, the village
manager will determine whether a reasonable accommodation can be made and, if
so, what that reasonable accommodation is. A reasonable accommodation is a
reasonable modification or adjustment to the job application process or work
environment or job functions that enable an applicant or employee to be
considered for the position or to perform the essential functions of the job.
Some examples include:
      1.   More frequent or longer bathroom breaks;
      2.   Breaks for increased water intake;
      3.   Breaks for periodic rests;
      4.   Private non-bathroom space for expressing breast milk and breast
feeding;
      5.   Seating;
      6.   Assistance with manual labor;
      7.   Light duty;
      8.   Temporary transfer to a less strenuous or hazardous position;
      9.   The provision of an accessible worksite;
      10.   Acquisition or modification of equipment;
      11.   Job restructuring;
      12.   A part-time or modified work schedule;
      13.   Appropriate adjustment or modifications of examination, training
materials, or policies;
      14.   Reassignment to a vacant position;
      15.   Time off to recover from pregnancy; and
      16.   Leave necessitated by pregnancy.
      The village is not required to create a position specifically for the
pregnant employee that the village would not otherwise have created. The
village is also not required to bump another employee from their position to
accommodate the pregnant employee nor is the village required to promote any
employee who is not qualified to perform the job.
   B.   Reporting Of The Incident: Any applicant or employee who believes that
he or she has been discriminated against based on the condition of pregnancy or
medical condition related to pregnancy or childbirth or as a nursing mother,
should take the following steps:
      Make a report of any suspected violation of this policy to the village
manager. The report may be made initially either verbally or in writing, but
reports made verbally must be reduced to writing before an investigation can be
initiated and a resolution achieved. If the employee believes the village
manager is the individual accused of the discrimination, the employee can make
their report to another supervisor or a member of the village board of
trustees.
   C.   Investigation Of The Complaint: When a complaint has been reduced to
writing, the village manager, or the person receiving the complaint, as the
case may be, will, as soon as practical, meet with the complaining party to
determine the nature of the complaint.
      If it is determined that an incident of discrimination did occur, the
village manager, or the person receiving the complaint, will so notify the
complaining party in writing as soon as practical after their meeting of how
the situation will be rectified.
   D.   Keeping Of Records And The Confidentiality Of Such Records: Applicants
or employees who submit a written complaint of a violation of the Act are
encouraged to keep written notes in order to accurately record the chain of
events. Every effort shall be made to keep all matters related to the
investigation and various reports confidential. In the event of a lawsuit,
however, the village advises that those records maintained by the village and
any records maintained by the complainant may not be considered privileged from
disclosure. The village will maintain written records for two (2) years after
the date of the resolution, unless new circumstances dictate that the records
should be kept for a longer period of time.
   E.   Time Frame For Reporting Complaints: The village encourages prompt
reporting of complaints so that rapid response and appropriate action may be
taken, therefore employees should make a report of a violation within six (6)
months from the time of the incident. However, delayed reporting of complaints
will not, in and of itself, preclude the village from taking remedial action.
(Ord. 2019-34, 12-16-2019)
1-9-9: FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT:
   A.   Provisions: In accordance with the family and medical leave act (FMLA),
and subject to the conditions stated below, the village will grant to eligible
employees up to twelve (12) weeks of job protected unpaid family and medical
leave, per twelve (12) month period, for any one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   The birth of an employee's child, to care for such child or the
placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster care. (Leave for
this reason must be taken within the twelve (12) month period following the
child's birth or placement with the employee. If both spouses work for the
village, each are permitted to take only a combined total of twelve (12) weeks'
leave during any twelve (12) month period.)
      2.   To care for the employee's immediate family member, if the immediate
family member has a serious health condition; or
      3.   The employee's own serious health condition that makes the employee
unable to perform the essential functions of his or her position.
   B.   Definitions:
                          A child under eighteen (18) years of age, or eighteen
                          (18) years of age and older, who is incapable of
                          self-care because of a mental or physical disability
CHILD:                    as determined by the social security act and
                          Americans with disabilities act (ADA) regulations. An
                          employee's child is one for whom the employee has
                          actual day to day responsibility for care and
                          includes a biological, adopted, foster, or stepchild.
                          A doctor of medicine or osteopathy, or any other
                          person determined by the federal government to be
                          capable of providing healthcare services including
HEALTHCARE PROVIDER:      podiatrists, dentists, clinical psychologists,
                          optometrists, chiropractors, nurse practitioners,
                          nurse midwives authorized to practice by state law,
                          and Christian Science practitioners.
IMMEDIATE FAMILY:         The employee's spouse, child, or parent.
                          The individual requires active assistance or
                          supervision to provide daily self-care in several of
                          the activities of daily living, such as caring
INCAPABLE OF SELF-CARE:   appropriately for one's grooming or hygiene, bathing,
                          dressing, eating, cooking, cleaning, shopping, taking
                          public transportation, paying bills, maintaining a
                          residence, using telephones, and the like.
                          There must be a medical need for the leave, as
MEDICAL NECESSITY:        distinguished from voluntary treatments or
                          procedures.
                          The biological parent or an individual who stands or
PARENT:                   stood in loco parentis (in the place of a parent) to
                          the employee when the employee was a child. It
                          excludes "parents-in-law".
                          An illness, injury, impairment or physical or mental
                          condition that involves:
                          1. Inpatient care; or
                          2. Any period of incapacity requiring absence from
                          work for more than three (3) calendar days, that also
                          involves continuing treatment by (or being under the
SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION: supervision of) a healthcare provider; or
                          3. Continuing treatment by (or under the supervision
                          of) a healthcare provider for a chronic or long term
                          health condition that is incurable or which, if left
                          untreated, would likely result in a period of
                          incapacity of more than three (3) calendar days; or
                          4. Prenatal care from a healthcare provider.
SPOUSE:                   Married domestic partner.
                          A rolling twelve (12) month period measured backward
TWELVE MONTH PERIOD:      from the date leave is taken and continuous with each
                          additional leave day taken.
 
   C.   Eligible Employee:
      1.   All Employees: To be eligible for FMLA, an employee must:
         a.   Have worked for the village at least twelve (12) months (meaning
the employee was maintained on the payroll); and
         b.   Have worked at least one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) hours
during the year preceding the start of the leave. Hours worked are determined
by applying the principles of the fair labor standards act (FLSA).
      2.   Exempt employees who have worked for the village at least twelve
(12) months are presumed to have met the minimum service required for
eligibility.
   D.   Request For Leave:
      1.   No Need To Assert FMLA Rights: Employees need not expressly assert
their rights under the FMLA, or even mention the FMLA when applying for leave.
It is enough to state that leave is needed for one or more of the covered
reasons, listed under the heading "family and medical leave provisions" above.
      2.   Leave For Medical Condition: The village may have to inquire further
to determine whether the leave requested is for a serious health condition
which must be supported by a medical certification from the healthcare
provider.
      3.   Planning Treatment: Upon getting notice for a leave, the village
may, for business reasons, require the employee to try to reschedule the
treatment, so long as the treating healthcare provider approves the
modification of the treatment schedule.
   E.   Notice Requirement:
      1.   Foreseeable Leave:
         a.   Unpaid Leave: An employee must give thirty (30) days' notice if
the leave is foreseeable and unpaid. The request for leave must be accompanied
by the "employee leave request form" furnished by the personnel department or
his/her designee. If the employee fails to give thirty (30) days' notice
without having a reasonable excuse for the delay, the leave will be denied
until thirty (30) days after the employee provides the notice.
         b.   Paid Leave: The notice period for a foreseeable paid leave is the
same that the employee is required to give to use vacation, sick leave or
whatever applicable paid benefit time the employee requests, and is determined
either by the village personnel policies and procedures, or a departmental or
village-wide procedure. The substitution of paid leave for the otherwise unpaid
leave provided by the FMLA is described below.
      2.   Unforeseeable Leave:
         a.   Unpaid Leave: In unexpected or unforeseeable situations, an
employee should provide as much notice as is practicable under the
circumstances. It is expected that the employee would give notice within one or
two (2) business days of learning of the need for the leave, except in
extraordinary circumstances. The notice shall be followed by the completed
"employee leave request form".
      In case of a medical emergency involving either the employee's own or the
immediate family member's serious health condition, the village's otherwise
required advance notice is unenforceable when FMLA leave is involved.
         b.   Paid Leave: The provisions described under subsection E1b of this
section apply.
   F.   Medical Certification:
      1.   Time Frame To Submit Form: For leaves (unpaid) taken because of the
employee's or a covered family member's serious health condition, the employee
must submit a completed "medical certification" form available from the
personnel department or his/her designee within fifteen (15) days after the
village requests completion of the form, or as soon as reasonably possible.
      2.   Subsequent Medical Opinion/Reports: The village may require a second
or third opinion, at the village's expense, and periodic reports on the
employee's status and intent to return to work. The employee must furnish a
fitness for duty report to return from a leave taken because of the employee's
own serious health condition.
   G.   Intermittent Or Reduced Leave:
      1.   Serious Health Condition: If it is medically necessary, leave may be
taken intermittently (a few days/hours at a time), or on a reduced leave
schedule to care for an immediate family member with a serious health
condition, or because of the employee's own serious health condition.
         a.   Medical Necessity: The treatment regimen and other information
given on the "medical certification" form is enough to certify the medical
necessity of intermittent or reduced leave. However, the employee must schedule
such leave so as not to disrupt the village's operations. Upon request, the
employee shall provide the village with the reasons why the intermittent/
reduced leave schedule is necessary, and furnish a schedule of the treatment.
The village and the employee will work out a mutually agreeable schedule,
subject to the approval of the healthcare provider.
         b.   Temporary Transfer: The employee may be required to transfer
temporarily to a position with equivalent pay and benefits that better
accommodates recurring periods of leave, when the leave is planned for
scheduled medical treatment.
      2.   Part Time/Variable Hours Employees: For part time employees and
those working variable hours, the FMLA leave entitlement is calculated on a pro
rata basis whereby the twelve (12) weeks worked immediately prior to the start
of the leave are used to calculate the employee's normal workweek.
      3.   Exempt Employees: Exempt employees' salaries will be reduced by the
hours taken as intermittent or reduced leave during the workweek, without
affecting their exempt status.
   H.   Military Leave:
      1.   Qualifying Exigency Leave: An eligible employee may take FMLA leave
for any qualifying exigency arising out of the fact that the employee's spouse,
son, daughter, or parent is on (or has been notified of an impending call to)
"covered active duty" in the Armed Forces. "Covered active duty" for members of
a regular component of the Armed Forces means duty during deployment of the
member with the Armed Forces to a foreign country. If in the reserves (U.S.
National Guard or Reserves), "covered active duty" means duty during deployment
of the member with the Armed Forces to a foreign country under a call or order
to active duty in a contingency operation. FMLA leave can be used for the
following "qualifying exigencies":
         a.   Short notice deployment;
         b.   Military events and related activities;
         c.   Child care and school activities;
         d.   Financial and legal arrangements;
         e.   Counseling;
         f.   Rest and recuperation;
         g.   Post-deployment activities; and
         h.   Additional activities agreed to by the village and employee.
      2.   Military Caregiver Leave: Eligible employees who are a spouse, son,
daughter, parent or next of kin of a covered service member are eligible to
take up to twenty-six (26) work weeks of leave in a single 12-month period to
care for the covered service member suffering from a serious illness or injury
incurred in the line of duty on active duty.
      "Covered service member" also includes veterans who are undergoing
medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy for a serious injury or illness so
long as the veteran was a member of the Armed Forces at any time during the
period of five (5) years preceding the date on which the veteran undergoes that
medical treatment, recuperation or therapy.
      "Serious injury or illness", for a current member of the Armed Forces,
includes both serious injury or illness that was incurred by the member in the
line of duty on active duty but also a pre-existing serious injury or illness
that was aggravated by service in the line of duty on active duty in the Armed
Forces that may render the member medically unfit to perform the duties of the
member's office, grade, rank or rating. For a veteran, serious injury or
illness means a qualifying injury or illness that was incurred in the line of
duty on active duty in the Armed Forces or preexisting condition aggravated by
service in the line of duty on active duty in the Armed Forces and that
manifested itself before or after the member became a veteran.
   I.   Substitution Of Paid Leave:
      1.   Required Substitution: Employees are required to substitute accrued
paid benefit time for any part of an FMLA leave taken for any reason as
follows:
      2.   Combination Of Paid/Unpaid Leave: When an employee has used accrued
paid benefit time for a portion of FMLA leave, the employee may request an
additional period of unpaid leave for a total combined leave of twelve (12)
weeks.
      3.   Right Of Substitution: An employee has the right to substitute all
of his/her accrued paid benefit time, so long as the village personnel policies
and procedures permit the use of paid benefit time for the type of FMLA leave
requested.
   J.   Effect On Benefits:
      1.   Group Insurance: The employee's group health insurance and life
insurance plan, if any, continues under the same conditions as coverage would
have been provided if the employee had continuously been employed during the
leave period.
      2.   Insurance Contributions: Employees' contributions to premiums
continue at the same level as if they were actively employed. If there is a
change in the employee's share of premium costs, they are notified of the
change and expected to pay the premium they would have paid had they not been
on leave.
         a.   Paid Leave: Employees who are on paid leave will have their
premium payments withheld through payroll deduction.
         b.   Unpaid Leave: Employees who are on unpaid leave will be advised
in writing at the beginning of the leave period of the amount, method and due
date of their premium payments.
         c.   Late Payment: If an employee's premium payment is more than
thirty (30) days late, the village may terminate the health coverage. However,
the coverage will be restored immediately upon the employee's return from
leave.
         d.   Reimbursement: If the village pays the employee's share of the
premium which the employee missed during the leave, the village may require
reimbursement from the employee upon return from leave. The employee will be
required to sign a written statement at the beginning of the leave authorizing
payroll deductions for delinquent payments.
         e.   Employee Does Not Return From Leave: If the employee fails to
return from leave for reasons other than the continuation of the employee's
serious health condition, or the serious health condition of a covered family
member, or circumstances beyond the employee's control, or the employee returns
to work for less than thirty (30) days, the village may seek reimbursement for
the employer's share of the premiums paid on behalf of the employee during the
period of the leave.
      3.   Other Benefits: An employee is not entitled to seniority or benefit
accrual during periods of unpaid leave, unless otherwise stated in this chapter
or law. However, the employee will not lose any benefit accrued prior to the
leave.
   K.   Job Protection:
      1.   Same Or Equivalent Position: If employees return from leave by the
end of twelve (12) weeks, or before, they are reinstated to the former position
or an equivalent one, with equivalent pay, benefits, status, authority, and
other conditions of employment as they held before going on leave.
      2.   Restoration Rights: The restoration rights of an employee returning
from FMLA leave are the same as they would have been had the employee continued
to work. Therefore, had the employee's position been eliminated, or the
employee been terminated while actively at work, there is no right to be
reinstated upon return from leave.
      3.   Late Return: If the employee fails to return by the end of twelve
(12) weeks, reinstatement to the same or similar position occurs only if it is
available. Otherwise, the employee's employment may be terminated.
      4.   Key Employee: An exception to reinstatement may also be made in the
case of a "key employee", even if the "key employee" returns timely from leave.
A "key employee" is an exempt employee and is among the ten percent (10%)
highest paid of all village employees. "Key employees" will be notified of
their status in writing when they request FMLA leave and informed as to whether
there is a possibility that reinstatement will be denied after leave.
Restoration may be denied if it causes substantial and grievous economic injury
as defined by FMLA regulations. (Ord. 05-04, 2-21-2005; amd. Ord. 2019-34, 12-
16-2019)
1-9-10: FAMILY MILITARY LEAVE:
Employees who have been employed with the village for at least twelve (12)
months and for at least one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) hours of service
during the previous 12-month period may be eligible for family military leave.
Family military leave is leave requested by an employee who is the spouse,
parent, child or grandparent of a person called to military service lasting
longer than thirty (30) days with the State of Illinois or the United States
pursuant to the orders of the Governor or the President of the United States.
Eligible employees will be granted up to thirty (30) days of unpaid family
military leave during the time federal or State of Illinois deployment orders
are in effect subject to the conditions of this section. The number of days of
leave provided to an eligible employee because the employee's spouse or child
is called to military service shall be reduced by the number of days of leave
provided to the employee contained in this employment policies packet regarding
the federal family and medical leave act because of any qualifying exigency
arising out of the fact that the employee's spouse or child is on covered
active duty in the armed forces as defined above.
Employees wishing to take said leave shall give at least fourteen (14) days'
notice if the leave will be five (5) consecutive work days or longer. The
employee shall consult with the village to schedule the leave so as to not
unduly disrupt the operations of the village. Employees taking less than five
(5) days leave should give advanced notice where practicable. The village may
require certification from the proper military authority to verify that the
employee is eligible for said leave.
Employees shall not take family military leave until they have first exhausted
all accrued vacation, personal and all other paid benefit time except for sick
or disability leave.
Job Protection: Employees taking said leave will be restored to their position
or to a position with equivalent seniority status, employee benefits, pay and
other terms and conditions of employment and shall retain all employee benefits
accrued before the date on which the leave commenced. Employees should arrange
for the payment of their health insurance benefits during their leave. (Ord.
2019-34, 12-16-2019)
1-9-11: DRUG FREE WORKPLACE ACT:
   A.   Statement Of Policy: The unlawful manufacture, distribution,
dispensation, possession, or use of a controlled substance, including cannabis
(i.e., marijuana, hashish), is prohibited in the village's workplace or at any
work site where village work is performed.
   B.   Drug Free Awareness Program: To assist employees in complying with the
village's policies and procedures that have been adopted to comply with the
drug free workplace act, the village has established a drug free awareness
program to inform employees about:
      1.   The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace.
      2.   The village's policy of maintaining a drug free workplace.
      3.   Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee
assistance programs.
      4.   The penalties that may be imposed upon an employee for violations of
the village's policies and procedures that have been adopted to comply with the
drug free workplace act.
   C.   Employees To Whom This Policy Applies: This policy applies to every
village employee engaged in the performance of work related to any grant
received by the village.
      A copy of this policy will be given to every such employee.
      A copy of this policy statement will be posted in the village hall and
other work sites of the village.
   D.   Penalties For Violation Of This Policy: Any employee who violates this
prohibition may be subject to disciplinary action as set forth in section
1-9-14 of this chapter or as provided by state statute, whichever is
applicable, up to and including immediate termination of employment or may be
referred for counseling or rehabilitation and satisfactory treatment.
   E.   What The Employee Is Required To Do: Every employee who is convicted of
a violation of a criminal drug statute as the result of conduct occurring in
the workplace or at a village work site must notify the village no later than
five (5) days after the conviction. Failure to so notify the village may result
in disciplinary action, up to and including immediate termination of
employment.
   Within ten (10) days of receiving notice of a conviction of an employee, the
village will notify the granting agency of the conviction.
   F.   Penalties For Conviction Of Criminal Drug Statute: Within thirty (30)
days of receiving notice that an employee has been convicted of a violation of
a criminal drug statute, the village will:
      1.   Take appropriate disciplinary action as set forth in this chapter or
as provided by state statute, whichever is applicable, up to and including
immediate termination of employment; or
      2.   Require the employee, at the employee's expense, to satisfactorily
participate in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program which has been
approved for such purposes by a federal, state, or local health, law
enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
   The village has the sole right to determine the course of action to be
taken.
   G.   Employee Assistance Program: In the event drug counseling, treatment,
and rehabilitation is required, the village has established an employee
assistance program to assist employees in selecting a course of action and to
refer employees to qualified treatment facilities or agencies. The following is
the village's policy for the employee assistance program:
      EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM:
      To comply with the Drug Free Workplace Act, the Village of West Dundee
has established an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to help employees who are
affected by a drug abuse problem. Through our EAP, the Village hopes to
identify drug abuse problems early and will provide confidential referral for
treatment.
      1.    The Village of West Dundee recognizes that drug abuse is an
illness. This illness may affect an employee's job performance, health, or
personal relationships. Fortunately, this is an illness which can be
successfully treated.
      2.    To assist employees in seeking treatment for drug abuse problems,
the Village has created the position of Program Administrator of the Drug Free
Workplace Act. The Program Administrator is the Village Manager.
      3.    Employees who believe they have a drug-abuse problem are encouraged
to voluntarily seek confidential assistance by contacting the Program
Administrator. The Program Administrator will place the employee in contact
with the Village's EAP.
      4.    Through the EAP, the employee will be provided a referral
coordinator. The referral coordinator is part of a trained referral team who
can refer the employee to a specific professional counselor or treatment
program who can help the employee deal with his or her drug-abuse problem.
      5.    An employee who voluntarily seeks assistance under the Village's
EAP may not be subject to discipline because of his or her drug-abuse problem
if, in the opinion of the Program Administrator, 1) the employee can
satisfactorily continue to perform his or her job duties, 2) the employee is
not a danger to himself or herself or to others, and 3) the integrity of the
Village of West Dundee is not adversely affected.
      6.    If an employee violates the Drug Free Workplace Act, the Village
may require the employee to satisfactorily participate in an approved drug
abuse assistance or treatment program, at the employee's expense. If the
employee refuses to participate in such a program, the employee may be subject
to disciplinary action as set forth in the Village Personnel Policies and
Procedures or as provided by State statute, whichever is applicable.
      7.    The decision to contact the EAP and to request diagnosis or to
undertake treatment is the sole responsibility of the employee. The employee
may also seek help directly from any approved individual or agency. All
treatment expenses are the sole responsibility of the employee.
      8.    The relationship among the employee, the Program Administrator, and
the EAP referral coordinator is confidential. When an employee voluntarily
contacts the EAP through the Program Administrator, only the Program
Administrator will be aware of the contact. When an employee is required to
contact the EAP or to participate in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation
program as the result of a violation of the Drug Free Workplace Act, only the
Program Administrator and those Village officials responsible for determining
compliance with the Drug Free Workplace Act will be aware of the contact. No
one in the Village will be aware of any treatment recommendations unless the
employee specifically authorizes disclosure to a specific person. When an
employee is required to contact the EAP or to participate in a drug abuse
assistance or rehabilitation program as the result of a violation of the Drug
Free Workplace Act, however, the employee will be required to provide the
Village with proof of satisfactory participation in and completion of the
program.
   H.   Acceptance Of This Policy: The village requires that all employees
acknowledge that they:
      1.   Have received the village of West Dundee's policy statement of
compliance with the drug free workplace act.
      2.   Will abide by the terms of this policy statement.
      3.   Will notify the village of any criminal drug statute conviction for
a violation occurring in the workplace or at a village work site no later than
five (5) days after the conviction.
      4.   Will, if convicted of a criminal drug statute violation as the
result of conduct occurring in the workplace or at a village work site and
given the opportunity to do so, satisfactorily participate in a drug abuse
assistance or rehabilitation program and provide the village with proof of
satisfactory participation and completion of such a program. (Ord. 05-04, 2-21-
2005; amd. Ord. 2019-34, 12-16-2019)
1-9-12: TRAVEL EXPENSES:
   A.   Interpretation: This section shall be interpreted to be consistent with
the local government travel expense control act, 50 ILCS 150/1.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section:
 
               Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
ENTERTAINMENT: circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or
               private entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the
               purpose of the program or event.
               Any expenditure directly incidental to official travel by
TRAVEL:        employees and officers of the village or direct payment to
               private agencies providing transportation or related services.
 
   C.   Official Business Requiring Expenses: Travel, meal, and lodging
expenses will only be allowed for official business of the village which is
necessary to the functioning or improvement of the village, if the business can
be done remotely, no expenses will be allowed. All effort shall be taken to
avoid expenses. This includes scheduling meetings within the village as opposed
to offsite.
   D.   Entertainment Expenses: No entertainment expenses may be reimbursed.
   E.   Maximum Reimbursement: The maximum reimbursements allowed for expenses
shall be:
      1.   Mileage: The current rate for mileage set by the Internal Revenue
Service.
      2.   Meals (breakfast, lunch, dinner): Thirty-five dollars ($35.00)/day.
      3.   Lodging: Shall be pre-approved by the department head prior to
expenditure. In the case of department heads, such requests shall be approved
by the village manager prior to expenditure.
   F.   Emergencies: In emergencies, amounts in excess of the above maximum
limits may be permitted by the corporate authorities.
   G.   Expense Form: All anticipated and incurred expenses shall only be
approved if submitted in the proper manner, including the information listed
below.
   H.   Approval By The Manager: The village manager is responsible for
approving expenses incurred by employees and officers which are under the
amounts in subsection E.
   I.   Approval By Corporate Authorities: Any expenses incurred or to be
incurred over the maximum levels in subsection E, and any expenses incurred or
to be incurred by members of the corporate authorities or the village manager,
may only be approved if the following information is provided by the employee
or board member in writing, signed and dated and approved by the president and
board of trustees by a roll-call vote at an open meeting:
      1.   Name and position (employee, trustee, etc.);
      2.   Date(s) for which reimbursement is requested;
      3.   Nature of the official business requiring this expense;
      4.   Detailed estimate of anticipated expenses or explanation of expenses
incurred; and
      5.   Any receipts for expenses already incurred must be attached to the
submission; if a longer explanation is required, please provide additional
information.
   J.   Public Records: This policy and all forms submitted relative to this
policy are public records.
   K.   No Right To Reimbursement: Nothing in this policy shall be construed as
a right for any employee or officer to be reimbursed for expenses. No
reimbursement may be given without approval by the village manager or the
corporate authorities. Employees and officers should, to the extent possible,
obtain prior approval of their anticipated expenses before incurring any
expenses. (Ord. 05-04, 2-21-2005; amd. Ord. 2019-34, 12-16-2019)
1-9-13: GENERAL RULES:
All employees are subject to the general rules of the village. Employees under
the jurisdiction of the fire and police commission are also subject to the
commission's rules and regulations.
   A.   Change Of Name, Address, Marital Or Family Status: Employees should
immediately report to the village manager and any finance department any
changes in their address, telephone, emergency telephone, marital status, and
dependents so the information can be entered into personnel records.
   B.   Employee Identification: When necessary, village employees will be
issued proper identification to assist them in gaining necessary access while
on routine or emergency village business.
   C.   Appearance And Uniforms: Employees are expected to maintain a neat,
clean appearance at all times. Inappropriate clothing will not be worn while on
duty. Uniforms or a uniform allowance may be furnished to certain village
employees. At time of termination, any returnable uniform must be returned in
acceptable condition. A charge will be made for returnable uniforms which are
lost, damaged, or not returned.
   D.   Village Vehicles And Equipment: Vehicles and equipment are provided for
village employees in order to properly perform their assigned job
responsibilities. Operation and use of village vehicles and equipment must be
related to specific village service programs and departmental operating
policies and procedures. The village has the right to periodically check the
driver's license status of any employee who may drive a vehicle owned by the
village or any other vehicle while on village business.
      No village vehicles or equipment may be used for personal use.
   E.   Village Telephone: Personal local telephone calls must be held to an
absolute minimum. No long distance personal telephone calls may be made by any
employee from village telephones.
   F.   Gifts And Gratuities: The acceptance of gifts or gratuities for
providing municipal services is strictly prohibited. If gifts of food or candy
of nominal value are offered during holiday seasons, they may be accepted but
shall be made available to all employees to consume. Adherence to the gift ban
act is strictly enforced which is outlined in title 1, chapter 7, article A of
this code. Any questions should be directed to the village manager.
   G.   Political Activities: Employees of the village serve all village
residents equally and have certain responsibilities to residents. A village
employee also has rights as a citizen and is allowed to participate in
political activities.
      The political opinions or affiliations of any resident shall in no way
affect the amount or quality of services received from or provided by the
village.
      An individual's political affiliation, preference, or opinion will not,
in any way, influence the hiring or any other term or condition of employment
of a village employee.
      The following guidelines will be used in defining political activity
within the community:
      1.   No employee who is a candidate for an elective office of the village
of West Dundee shall engage in any campaign activities while at work or while
performing work related duties, or in any other way coerce or influence, or
attempt to coerce or influence, others to endorse his or her campaign, to vote
for him or her, or to engage in any other political activities on his or her
behalf while the employee is at work or performing work related duties.
      2.   No employee shall use his or her name as a village employee as an
endorsement for a candidate for local political office.
      3.   No village employee shall, during working hours or while on duty,
take any active part in a political campaign. Political activities are not
prohibited, but must be confined to nonworking hours.
      4.   Employees of the village shall not, during working hours or while on
duty, directly or indirectly, demand, solicit, collect, or receive any
assessment, subscription, or contribution, whether voluntary or involuntary,
intended for any political purpose whatsoever from fellow employees or from the
general public.
      5.   No employee of the village shall use his or her position as a
village employee to attempt to solicit votes for any candidate for local office
or to lend credence to any such solicitation for any candidate for local
office.
      6.   No employee shall use village facilities, including the telephone,
copy machines, or any other village equipment or supplies for the purpose of
preparing or promoting any local political campaign.
      7.   No village employee shall contribute money to any local candidate or
political party except on a purely voluntary basis.
      8.   The village manager and department directors are also subject to the
village's code of ethics contained in chapter 7, article A of this title.
      The guidelines set forth govern local elections only and are not intended
to include elections of county, state, or federal governments.
   H.   Confidential Information: Information about the plans or business
affairs of the village, or the personal or business affairs of other employees
or village officials, is confidential. Inquiries from any source about such
information should be referred to the department director or village manager,
who will determine the identity of the person requesting the information and
the validity of the request.
   I.   Media Relations: The village president and members of the board of
trustees shall be the primary spokespersons of the village on all official
actions of the village. If they are not readily available, the village manager
shall be the primary spokesperson on all official matters of the village.
      Village department directors may confer with the media and provide
information only on those matters affecting their departments. Any information
disbursed is done with the understanding it is in relation to a matter directly
related to the operation of their department. Any comments on proposed changes
to established policy or procedures must be stated as a recommendation.
   J.   Outside Employment And Training: All regular full time employees who
desire to engage in outside employment with an employer other than the village
of West Dundee must obtain the prior written consent of their department
director. Department directors shall request permission to engage in outside
employment from the village manager. Full time employees must also notify their
department director of enrollment in any formal training programs not provided
or required by the village. Department directors shall notify the village
manager if they are enrolled in formal training programs not provided or
required by the village.
   K.   No Solicitation/No Distribution: Solicitation of village employees and
residents or members of the general public who are on village property, or the
distribution of literature, pamphlets, or other materials by individuals not
employed by the village, is prohibited on all village property.
      Soliciting, collecting, or selling, for any purpose, between employees of
the village during the work time of the soliciting employee or during the work
time of the employee being solicited, is prohibited. "Work time" means the time
during which either the soliciting employee or the employee being solicited
should be working. "Work time" does not include lunch periods, break periods,
or other periods when employees are not expected to be actively working.
   L.   No Smoking Policy: Pursuant to the Smoke Free Illinois Act, 410 ILCS
82/1 et seq., smoking by employees is prohibited in all village facilities and
vehicles.
   M.   Employee Safety: The village firmly believes that all accidents are
preventable. The village will make every effort to provide a safe and healthy
working environment, including using approved working equipment and proper
protective equipment and providing its employees with sufficient training and
instruction.
      To help ensure the safety of all village employees, all employees are
expected to abide by basic safety rules, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Obeying all safety rules and using all safety and protective
equipment provided to you.
      2.   Following all safety instructions when using village equipment or
machinery.
      3.   Reporting any injury, no matter how minor or insignificant,
immediately to your supervisor and following the steps in subsection 1-9-3P,
"Workers' Compensation", of this chapter.
      Failure to abide by these rules, or to follow basic safety procedures,
may result in disciplinary action, up to and including immediate termination of
employment.
   N.   Drug And Alcohol Use Policy: In order to provide a drug free,
healthful, and safe secure work environment, the village will regulate the use
of drugs and alcohol in the workplace. In addition, the purpose of this policy
is to perform the necessary drug and alcohol testing pursuant to the federally
mandated requirements of the omnibus transportation employee testing act of
1991 as delineated under U.S. department of transportation drug and alcohol
testing regulations 49 CFR parts 40 and 382. The drug related and alcohol
related requirements of this law became effective January 1, 1996. The village
may therefore require: 1) any employee holding a commercial driver's license
(CDL), and 2) all other employees for reasonable cause, to submit to a drug and
alcohol test to determine the presence of alcohol or marijuana, cocaine,
opiates, amphetamines, and phencyclidine (PCP) in the system. This screening
will be conducted while the employee is on village paid time at village expense
and will be mandatory. All test results will remain confidential.
      The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession, or use
of a controlled substance or alcohol by employees is prohibited on all
municipal premises, in any village owned or leased motor vehicle, or at any
other location where the employee is assigned to perform work.
      The village's procedures detailing drug and alcohol testing are contained
in a separate manual which can be obtained from the village manager. (Ord. 05-
04, 2-21-2005; amd. Ord. 2019-34, 12-16-2019)
1-9-14: DISCIPLINE:
   A.   Disciplinary Action: The village of West Dundee is committed to the
practice of progressive discipline. Disciplinary action is intended not only to
deter and/or punish unwanted behavior, but to provide the impetus and
opportunity for improvement.
      In order to best accomplish this objective, four (4) levels of action are
hereby established for all employees. It is generally the village's policy to
progress through each of the four (4) outlined levels, however, disciplinary
action may be implemented at any of the four (4) steps, dependent upon the
nature and the severity of the violations and/or cause.
      Any collective bargaining agreement in place takes precedence over this
chapter for those employees bound by said agreement. If the issue is not
addressed in the bargaining agreement, this chapter shall apply.
      To ensure as little misunderstanding as possible in the uniform
enforcement of work rules, the following are provided as examples of actions or
behaviors which shall be considered to be causes for disciplinary action.
Causes for disciplinary action are not, however, limited to the following:
      1.   Carelessness resulting in injury, property damage, or a dangerous
condition.
      2.   Reckless or careless driving while using a village vehicle.
      3.   Insubordination or failure to perform an assigned task.
      4.   Conduct which reflects unfavorably upon the village as an employer.
      5.   Discourtesy or use of abusive language.
      6.   False statements at the time of employment.
      7.   Dishonesty.
      8.   Falsification of organization records or reports.
      9.   Willingly making a false statement to a supervisor, official, the
public, or any village board or commission.
      10.   Violation of a village ordinance, administrative regulation, or
department rule.
      11.   Refusal to be examined by a village authorized fully licensed
physician when so directed if applicable to position.
      12.   Theft or unauthorized removal of property belonging to the village
or another person.
      13.   Immoral conduct or indecent behavior on village premises.
      14.   Refusal to work overtime during a designated emergency, without
justifiable cause. (An emergency situation exists during any period in which
the health, safety, or welfare of the community is threatened.)
      15.   Violation of, or disregard for, an established safety practice.
      16.   Possession or use of alcohol or a controlled substance while on
village premises.
      17.   Reporting for, or being at work while under the influence of
alcohol or a controlled substance.
      18.   Provoking, instigating, or participating in an activity intended to
disrupt the established work routine.
      19.   Documented unsatisfactory work performance.
      20.   Unauthorized use or possession of tools, machinery, or equipment.
      21.   Gambling on the premises during working hours.
      22.   Loafing, loitering or otherwise wasting time during work hours.
      23.   Being consistently late and/or absent from work without permission
or notification.
      24.   Misuse of sick leave or other benefits.
      25.   Violation of the equal employment opportunity, anti-harassment or
ADA policies.
      26.   Revealing village information without the proper authorization.
      27.   Disruptive attitude or abusive language which is detrimental to the
services, programs, and operations of the village.
      28.   Asking for or accepting any form of gift or gratuity in connection
with providing village services.
      29.   Allowing the political affiliation of the employee or of a resident
or member of the general public to affect or in any way influence whether a
resident or member of the general public receives village services or allowing
the political affiliation of the employee or of a resident or member of the
general public to affect or in any way influence the type or quality of village
services available or provided to that resident or member of the general
public.
      30.   Any other misconduct or impropriety of a similar seriousness to
those items listed above.
   B.   Levels Of Discipline:
      Step 1: Verbal Warning: An employee shall be given a verbal warning by
his/her immediate supervisor and/or a supervisor having a higher level of
authority within the same department for any cause for disciplinary action
which is deemed minor in nature but which, if violated, may cause problems for
the organization and/or one's fellow employees. The immediate supervisor shall
be notified promptly of any verbal warning given to one of his/her subordinates
by another authorized individual. Dependent upon the number of reoccurrences of
these causes, further disciplinary action may be required. For documentation
purposes, the supervisor shall prepare a memo for the employee's file noting
the date of the verbal warning and general circumstances pertaining to it.
      Step 2: Written Warning: A written warning may be given for moderately
serious problems or the recurrence of minor problems. The employee will be
given an opportunity to review the disciplinary notice and to respond to it.
The employee will also be asked to sign the disciplinary notice, which means
only that the employee has read the notice and understands what it means, not
that the employee necessarily agrees with the discipline. An employee's refusal
or failure to sign a disciplinary notice will constitute a separate violation
which may result in disciplinary action, up to and including immediate
termination of employment. A copy of the disciplinary notice will be placed in
the employee's personnel file.
      Once a written warning has been given, a written improvement plan shall
be developed by the employee and his/her immediate supervisor and/or department
director, which is then submitted to the village manager. The improvement plan
shall be comprised of a list of desired objectives and a timetable for the
expected improvement on the part of the employee. A date shall be set for
reevaluation of the employee's performance and the implementation of the
improvement plan. Unsatisfactory improvement shall result in further
disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
      Step 3: Suspension: A department director may suspend an employee with or
without pay for up to three (3) days. Such action shall be taken upon the
occurrence of a major infraction of the established rules and/or commonly
accepted behavior or upon the repetition of a minor offense. Written
notification and support of this action must be submitted to the village
manager by the first workday following the incident. Suspensions exceeding
three (3) working days in length must first be approved by the village manager.
An employee will not be entitled to use any accrued benefits, such as vacation
leave and/or holiday leave, in lieu of suspension.
      Step 4: Termination: An employee may be immediately terminated for
violation of work rules, unacceptable behavior, misconduct, poor performance or
for any reason or no reason without ever having received a verbal reprimand,
written reprimand or suspension. (Ord. 05-04, 2-21-2005; amd. Ord. 2019-34, 12-
16-2019)
1-9-15: SEPARATION FROM EMPLOYMENT:
An employee may be separated from employment with the village of West Dundee by
resignation, layoff, loss of acceptable position requirements, discharge or
disability. The determination of separation status for all employees shall be
made by the village manager.
   A.   Resignation: An employee may resign at any time, without prior notice
to the village. However, if possible, the village would ask that departing
employees submit a resignation to their department director two (2) weeks prior
to the date of the intended departure. The employee shall return any and all
properties of the village and have paid any obligations owed by said employee
that could obligate the village prior to separation.
      Unauthorized absence from work for three (3) consecutive days may be
considered a voluntary resignation effective on the first day of such absence.
   B.   Layoffs: Layoffs may occur for reasons which include, but are not
limited to, a lack of work and/or a lack of funding. When it becomes necessary
to reduce the work force within a department, the layoff of employees
performing similar functions shall be based on the individual employee's level
of performance as reflected in the average of his/her evaluations over the past
two (2) years of service. In cases where no such differential exists, or the
employee has not worked for the village for a minimum of two (2) years, the
length of service with the village shall be used to determine the layoff.
      Employees who are terminated from employment due to a reduction in force
are considered to have left the village's employment and shall be entitled to
the same benefits as if they voluntarily resigned.
      An employee who is to be laid off shall be notified in writing by the
village manager at least ten (10) working days prior to the effective date of
the layoff, if possible.
      Employees who have been laid off will, if rehired, be reinstated with
full seniority and restoration of benefits. However, the village is not
required to rehire a former employee who was laid off even if a position is
again available.
   C.   Loss Of Acceptable Position Requirements: An employee who is unable to
adequately perform the duties, responsibilities, and essential functions of
his/her position due to the loss of a necessary license or other requirement,
shall be terminated from employment.
   D.   Discharge: The discharge or involuntary separation of an employee from
service shall be based upon, but not limited to, such factors as incompetence,
insubordination, misconduct, delinquency or the inability to satisfactorily
perform the duties and responsibilities of the position.
      The procedure to be followed in the discharge of an employee is
established in section
1-9-14, "Discipline", of this chapter.
   E.   Exit Interviews: At the request of the employee, the department
director, or the village manager, an exit interview shall be held upon
separation from employment with the village. The exit interview shall be
conducted by the village manager or his/her designated representative.
   F.   Severance: In the event that village terminates the employment of the
finance director, community development director or public works director
without cause, village shall pay severance equal to one week's pay for each
year of service, up to a maximum of eight (8) weeks. In the event the village
opts to terminate this employment with cause, no severance will be provided.
"Cause", for the purposes of this subsection, shall be defined as an indictment
alleging commission of a felony, theft of village of West Dundee property or
services, or material violation of any state or village code of ethics.
Anything not defined as "with cause" shall be presumed to be "without cause".
(Ord. 05-04, 2-21-2005; amd. Ord. 2013-05, 3-18-2013; amd. Ord. 2019-34, 12-16-
2019)
1-9-16: COBRA COVERAGE:
Introduction
You are receiving this notice because you have recently become covered under a
group health plan (the Plan). This notice contains important information about
your right to COBRA continuation coverage, which is a temporary extension of
coverage under the Plan. This notice generally explains COBRA continuation
coverage, when it may become available to you and your family, and what you
need to do to protect the right to receive it.
The right to COBRA continuation coverage was created by a federal law, the
consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA). COBRA
continuation coverage can become available to you when you would otherwise lose
your group health coverage. It can also become available to other members of
your family who are covered under the Plan when they would otherwise lose their
group health coverage. For additional information about your rights and
obligations under the Plan and under federal law, you should review the Plan's
Summary Plan Description or contact the Plan Administrator.
What is COBRA Continuation Coverage?
COBRA continuation coverage is a continuation of Plan coverage when coverage
would otherwise end because of a life event known as a "qualifying event."
Specific qualifying events are listed later in this notice. After a qualifying
event, COBRA continuation coverage must be offered to each person who is a
"qualified beneficiary." You, your spouse, and your dependent children could
become qualified beneficiaries if coverage under the Plan is lost because of
the qualifying event. Under the Plan, qualified beneficiaries who elect COBRA
continuation coverage must pay for COBRA continuation coverage.
If you are an employee, you will become a qualified beneficiary if you lose
your coverage under the Plan because either one of the following qualifying
events happens:
   •   Your hours of employment are reduced, or
   •   Your employment ends for any reason other than your gross misconduct.
If you are the spouse of an employee, you will become a qualified beneficiary
if you lose your coverage under the Plan because any of the following
qualifying events happens:
   •   Your spouse dies;
   •   Your spouse's hours of employment are reduced;
   •   Your spouse's employment ends for any reason other than his or her gross
misconduct;
   •   Your spouse becomes entitled to Medicare benefits (under Part A, Part B,
or both); or
   •   You become divorced or legally separated from your spouse.
Your dependent children will become qualified beneficiaries if they lose
coverage under the Plan because any of the following qualifying events happen:
   •   The parent-employee dies;
   •   The parent-employee's hours of employment are reduced;
   •   The parent-employee's employment ends for any reason other than his or
her gross misconduct;
   •   The parent-employee becomes entitled to Medicare benefits (Part A, Part
B, or both);
   •   The parents become divorced or legally separated; or
   •   The child stops being eligible for coverage under the plan as a
"dependent child."
When is COBRA Coverage Available?
The Plan will offer COBRA continuation coverage to qualified beneficiaries only
after the Plan Administrator has been notified that a qualifying event has
occurred. When the qualifying event is the end of employment or reduction of
hours of employment, death of the employee, commencement of a proceeding in
bankruptcy with respect to the employer, or the employee's becoming entitled to
Medicare benefits (under Part A, Part B, or both), the employer must notify the
Plan Administrator of the qualifying event.
You Must Give Notice of Some Qualifying Events
For the other qualifying events (divorce or legal separation of the employee
and spouse or a dependent child's losing eligibility for coverage as a
dependent child), you must notify the Plan Administrator within 60 days after
the qualifying event occurs. You must provide this notice to: Mr. David
Danielson, Finance Director for the Village of West Dundee and complete the
appropriate form(s) required by the Village's health care provider.
How is COBRA Coverage Provided?
Once the Plan Administrator receives notice that a qualifying event has
occurred, COBRA continuation coverage will be offered to each of the qualified
beneficiaries. Each qualified beneficiary will have an independent right to
elect COBRA continuation coverage. Covered employees may elect COBRA
continuation coverage on behalf of their spouses, and parents may elect COBRA
continuation coverage on behalf of their children.
COBRA continuation coverage is a temporary continuation of coverage. When the
qualifying event is the death of the employee, the employee's becoming entitled
to Medicare benefits (under Part A, Part B, or both), your divorce or legal
separation, or a dependent child's losing eligibility as a dependent child,
COBRA continuation coverage lasts for up to a total of 36 months. When the
qualifying event is the end of employment or reduction of the employee's hours
of employment, and the employee became entitled to Medicare benefits less than
18 months before the qualifying event, COBRA continuation coverage for
qualified beneficiaries other than the employee lasts until 36 months after the
date of Medicare entitlement. For example, if a covered employee becomes
entitled to Medicare 8 months before the date on which his employment
terminates, COBRA continuation coverage for his spouse and children can last up
to 36 months after the date of Medicare entitlement, which is equal to 28
months after the date of the qualifying event (36 months minus 8 months).
Otherwise, when the qualifying event is the end of employment or reduction of
the employee's hours of employment, COBRA continuation coverage generally lasts
for only up to a total of 18 months. There are two ways in which this 18-month
period of COBRA continuation coverage can be extended.
Disability extension of 18-month period of continuation coverage
If you or anyone in your family covered under the Plan is determined by Social
Security Administration to be disabled and; you notify the Plan Administrator
in a timely fashion, you and your entire family may be entitled to receive up
to an additional 11 months of COBRA continuation coverage, for a total maximum
of 29 months. The disability would have to have started at some time before the
60th day of COBRA continuation coverage and must last at least until the end of
the 18-month period of continuation coverage. Proof of disability must be
provided to Mr. David Danielson (Plan Administrator) at least 30 days prior to
the ending of the initial 18-month period of continuation coverage.
Second qualifying event extension of 18-month period of continuation coverage
If your family experiences another qualifying event while receiving 18 months
of COBRA continuation coverage, the spouse the dependent children in your
family can get up to 18 additional months of COBRA continuation coverage, for a
maximum of 36 months, if notice of the second qualifying event is properly
given to the Plan. This extension may be available to the spouse and any
dependent children receiving continuation coverage if the employee or former
employee dies, becomes entitled to Medicare benefits (under Part A, Part B, or
both), or gets divorced or legally separated, or if the dependent child stops
being eligible under the Plan as a dependent child, but only if the event would
have caused the spouse or dependent child to lose coverage under the Plan had
the first qualifying event not occurred.
If You Have Questions
Questions concerning your Plan or your COBRA continuation coverage rights
should be addressed to the contact or contacts identified below. For more
information about your rights under ERISA, including COBRA, the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and other laws affecting
group health plans, contact the nearest Regional or District Office of the U.S.
Department of Labor's Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) in your
area or visit the EBSA website at www.dol.gov/ebsa. (Addresses and phone
numbers of Regional and District EBSA Offices are available through EBSA's
website.)
Keep Your Plan Informed of Address Changes
In order to protect your family's rights, you should keep the Plan
Administrator informed of any changes in the addresses of family members. You
should also keep a copy, for your records, of any notices you send to the Plan
Administrator.
Plan Contact Information
For information on the Village's group health plan, please refer to or contact
the following individual(s)
BlueCross/BlueShield of Illinois
PPO # P71488
HMO # B54369
1-800-851-7498
Contact from the Village of West Dundee:
Finance Director
C/O The Village of West Dundee
102 S. 2nd Street
West Dundee, IL 60118
(847) 551-3800
(Ord. 05-04, 2-21-2005; amd. Ord, 2019-34, 12-16-2019)
October 2020
CHAPTER 10
VILLAGE HALL AND SEAL
SECTION:
1-10-1: Village Hall
1-10-2: Corporate Seal
1-10-1: VILLAGE HALL:
The building heretofore constructed and now maintained by the village for
offices for its officials and other public purposes, located on the corner of
Main Street and Second Street in the village, shall hereafter be known and
designated as the "village hall". (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
1-10-2: CORPORATE SEAL:
The seal heretofore provided and used by and for the village, having in the
center the word, "Seal" and around said word the words "Organized April 19,
1887", and around the outer edge the words "Village of West Dundee, Illinois",
shall be and is hereby established and declared to have been and is now the
seal of the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 11
BIDDING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
1-11-1: When Bids Required
1-11-2: Exceptions
1-11-3: Procedure For Soliciting Bids And Awarding Contracts
1-11-1: WHEN BIDS REQUIRED:
Any work or other public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or in
part by special assessment or special taxation, when the expense thereof shall
exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), shall be constructed by a
contract let to the lowest responsible bidder after advertising for bids,
unless waived by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all Trustees then holding
office. (Ord. 2017-26, 11-20-2017)
1-11-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The following are not subject to the bidding requirement set forth in section
 1-11-1 of this chapter:
   A.   Purchase contracts, for either labor, materials or both, which by their
nature are not adaptable to award by competitive bidding, such as, but not
limited to, contracts for services of individuals possessing a high degree of
professional skill where the ability or fitness of the individual plays an
important part, contracts for supplies, materials, parts or equipment which are
available only from a single source;
   B.   Any collective bargaining agreement or employment contracts to which
the Village is a party;
   C.   Any purchase, sale or lease of real property to which the Village is a
party;
   D.   Contracts involving Village grant or incentive programs;
   E.   Development agreements;
   F.   Contracts with or purchases from any other governmental entity;
   G.   Purchases made pursuant to any joint purchasing program sponsored by
the State or other governmental agency or association. (Ord. 2017-26, 11-20-
2017)
1-11-3: PROCEDURE FOR SOLICITING BIDS AND AWARDING CONTRACTS:
   A.   Publication: All proposals to award purchase orders or contracts in
excess of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) shall be published once at
least ten (10) days in advance of the date announced for receiving bids in a
newspaper of general circulation throughout the Village by the Village Clerk.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the Village Clerk from posting
additional notices or advertising in addition thereto in trade magazines, if so
directed by the Board of Trustees;
   B.   Advertisement For Bids: Advertisement for bids shall describe the
character of the proposed contract, purchase or improvement in sufficient
detail to enable the bidders thereon to know what their obligations will be,
either in the advertisement itself, or by reference, to detailed plans and
specifications on file in the Office of the Village Clerk at the time of
publication of the announcement. The advertisement shall also state the date,
time and place assigned for submitting bids and for the opening of bids;
   C.   Deposit On Bids: Cash, a cashier's check or a certified check as a
deposit of good faith, in a reasonable amount not in excess of ten percent
(10%) of the contract or purchase amount, may be required of each bidder on all
sums in excess of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) if specified in the
bid announcement;
   D.   Opening Of Sealed Bids: All sealed bids shall be opened publicly by the
Board of Trustees. All bids shall be open to public inspection in the Office of
the Village Clerk;
   E.   Bid Award: The award of any purchase or contract in excess of twenty
five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) shall be made by the Board of Trustees to
the lowest responsible bidder. (Ord. 2017-26, 11-20-2017)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Organization
2-1-2: Meetings
2-1-3: Duties Of The Commission
2-1-4: Special Zoning Commission
2-1-1: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Creation: A planning and zoning commission is hereby created for the
village to carry out the duties of a plan commission and zoning board of
appeals. When used in this chapter "commission" shall be construed to mean the
planning and zoning commission and "commissioners" shall be construed to mean
the members of the commission. (Ord. 98-29, 10-5-1998)
   B.   Membership: The commission shall consist of a chairman and eight (8)
members to be appointed by the village president with the advice and consent of
the village board. All members shall reside within the village corporate
limits. The chairman shall be appointed annually from the members of the
commission by the village president with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees. Annually, the commissioners shall elect one of its own to serve as
vice chairman. (Ord. 98-29, 10-5-1998; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Term Of Office: The first appointees shall serve for the following
terms, or until their respective successors, in similar manner, have been
appointed and qualified: three (3) for two (2) years, two (2) for three (3)
years, four (4) for four (4) years. Successors to each member so appointed
shall serve four (4) year terms except that vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the membership vacated. The term of each commissioner shall
expire April 30 of the year of the expiration of its respective term of office.
Thereafter, the appointments shall be made at the annual meeting of the village
board.
   D.   Vacancy: Any vacancy on the commission shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointment.
   E.   Removal: The village president, with the approval of the village board,
may remove any member of the commission for cause.
   F.   Compensation: Commissioners shall receive compensation at the rate of
thirty five dollars ($35.00) per meeting for the chairman, and thirty dollars
($30.00) per meeting for commission members.
   G.   References: Any ordinance, code, regulation, etc., of the village or
state statute that references the plan commission and/or zoning board of
appeals shall mean the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 98-29, 10-5-1998)
2-1-2: MEETINGS:
All meetings of the commission shall be held at the call of the chairman and at
such other times as the commission and/or village board may determine. The
presence of a majority of the members then holding office shall be necessary
for a quorum. All meetings shall be open to the public. The chairman, or acting
chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The
commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep record of its
examinations and other official actions, prepare findings of fact and record
the individual votes upon every question. Expenses incurred by the commission
in the performance of official duties are to be itemized and shall be borne by
the village. (Ord. 98-29, 10-5-1998)
2-1-3: DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION:
The duties of the commission are as follows:
   A.   Prepare and recommend to the village board a comprehensive plan of
public improvements looking to the present and future development of the
village. After its adoption by the village board this plan shall be known as
the official plan of the village of West Dundee. Thereafter, from time to time,
the commission may recommend changes in the official plan. This plan may
include reasonable requirements with reference to the streets, alleys and
public grounds in unsubdivided land situated within the corporate limits or in
contiguous territory not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the
corporate limits and not included in any municipality. These requirements shall
be effective whenever this unsubdivided land is subdivided after the adoption
of the official plan.
Following the adoption of the official plan no map or plat of any subdivision
presented for record affecting land within the corporate limits of the village
or in contiguous territory outside of and not more than one and one-half (11/2)
miles from those limits and not included in any other municipality, shall be
entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision thereon shall
provide for streets, alleys and public grounds in conformity with the official
plan.
   B.   Prepare and recommend to the village board from time to time plans for
specific improvements in the pursuance of the official plan.
   C.   Give aid to the village officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan and to further the
making of these projects, and generally promote the official plan.
   D.   Exercise such other powers, germane to the powers granted by this code
as may be conferred by the village and are granted a village under 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes, including, but not limited to, 5/11-12-1 to 5/11-12-12.
   E.   Hear appeals from any order, requirement, decision or determination of
the building commissioner or village manager, relating to the West Dundee
zoning ordinance by any person, firm or corporation aggrieved thereby, or by
any officer, department, board or commission of the village. The appeal shall
be taken within forty five (45) days of the action complained of by filing a
notice of appeal, in duplicate, specifying the grounds thereof, in the office
of the village clerk who shall transmit forthwith one copy to the building
commissioner, one copy to the village manager and one copy to the chairman of
the commission. The village manager shall forthwith transmit to the chairman of
the commission all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from
unless the building commissioner or village manager certifies to the commission
that, by reason of facts stated in the certification, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, the proceedings shall not be
stayed except by a restraining order issued by the commission or a court of
record after notice to the village manager and on due cause shown.
The commission shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing of the
appeal, give due notice thereof to all interested parties and shall render a
written decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may
appear at the hearing and present testimony in person or by a duly authorized
agent or attorney. The commission may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination of the village
manager.
   F.   Recommend to the village board after holding a public hearing on
application for variations from the strict enforcement of any provisions of the
West Dundee zoning ordinance, in accordance with the rules and standards set
forth therein.
   G.   Recommend to the village board, after holding a public hearing, on
applications for special uses listed in each of the several zoning districts.
   H.   Recommend to the village board, after holding a public hearing, on
applications for planned developments referred to it by the village board and
to hear and decide other matters referred to it or upon which it is required to
pass under the provisions of the West Dundee zoning ordinance.
   I.   Recommend to the village board, after holding a public hearing, on
petitions for amendment of the provisions of the West Dundee zoning ordinance
and the boundary lines of zoning districts established therein.
   J.   Transmit to the village board, with every recommendation, findings of
fact and to refer to any exhibits containing plans and specifications relating
to its recommendation, which plans and specifications shall remain a part of
the permanent records of the commission. The findings of facts shall specify
the reason or reasons for its recommendation. The terms of the relief
recommended shall be specifically set forth in a conclusion or statement
separate from the findings of fact of the commission.
   K.   File immediately in the office of the village clerk every rule, order,
requirement, decision or determination of the commission after any meeting or
hearing, which shall be a public record.
   L.   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to authorize the commission
to change any of the provisions of the West Dundee zoning ordinance or district
boundary lines established hereby. The concurring vote of four (4) members
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of the village manager or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon
which the commission is authorized to act.
   M.   Additional duties of the commission are also outlined in the West
Dundee zoning ordinance, subdivision code, this code and the Illinois municipal
code. (Ord. 98-29, 10-5-1998)
2-1-4: SPECIAL ZONING COMMISSION:
The commission shall serve as a special zoning commission whenever a text
amendment is proposed to the West Dundee zoning ordinance. (Ord. 98-29, 10-5-
1998)
CHAPTER 2
APPEARANCE REVIEW COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Creation
2-2-2: Appointment And Composition
2-2-3: Meetings And Procedures Of The Commission
2-2-4: Powers And Duties
2-2-5: General Jurisdiction Of The Commission
2-2-6: Appeal Process
2-2-1: CREATION:
There is hereby created an appearance review commission. (Ord. 08-08, 2-18-
2008)
2-2-2: APPOINTMENT AND COMPOSITION:
   A.   Members: The commission shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by
the village president, with the advice and consent of the village board, who
shall serve as voting members (collectively, the "members" and individually a
"member"). In addition, the village president shall appoint an ex officio
member from the board of trustees to the commission, with the advice and
consent of the village board, as a nonvoting, advisory member of the
commission. At the discretion of the village president, other nonvoting,
advisory members may be appointed to assist the commission in carrying out its
duties as described in this code, but in no instance shall such nonvoting,
advisory members possess the right to vote on proceedings before the
commission.
   B.   Qualifications: Five (5) members of the commission shall be residents
of the village. Up to two (2) members may be nonresidents. It is a primary
consideration that qualified persons having an interest in the history and
architectural heritage of the village be appointed to the commission. The
village president shall make every possible effort to appoint members with
knowledge and expertise in the field of architecture, real estate, building/
construction and other related disciplines.
   C.   Term And Vacancies: All appointments shall be made for a term of three
(3) years. Vacancies on the commission shall be filled for the unexpired term
of the member whose place has become vacant in the same manner in which the
original appointments are required to be made. All members shall hold their
office for their respective terms and until their successors are appointed.
Each advisory, nonvoting member of the commission shall hold their office until
such member resigns or is removed by the village president.
   D.   Compensation: Each attending member of the commission shall receive
thirty dollars ($30.00) for each meeting attended. The chairman shall receive
thirty five dollars ($35.00) for each meeting attended.
   E.   Officers Of The Commission:
      1.   Chair: The village president, with the advice and consent of the
village board, shall appoint a chairman of the commission from among the
members of the commission. The chairman shall have the duty of calling all
meetings and shall preside at all meetings of the commission.
      2.   Secretary: The village clerk or deputy village clerk shall act as
recording secretary to the commission. The secretary shall have the duties of:
a) retaining the documents and specifications submitted to the commission by
applicants for certificates of appropriateness; and b) submitting minutes of
the meetings and written findings which set forth the commission's decisions to
the village manager and village clerk within seven (7) business days of such
commission meeting. (Ord. 08-08, 2-18-2008)
2-2-3: MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES OF THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Any meeting of the commission may be held at the call of the chairman
and at such other times as any four (4) members of the commission shall
determine. Four (4) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. A
majority decision of members present at a duly constituted meeting shall be
required for all commission actions.
   B.   The commission shall adopt "Robert's Rules Of Order" as its rules of
procedure in a manner consistent with the appearance review code in title 9,
chapter 6 of this code.
   C.   The minutes of the commission's meeting shall be a public record
maintained by the village clerk. (Ord. 08-08, 2-18-2008)
   D.   The regularly scheduled meeting date for the commission shall be the
second Tuesday of every month. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-18-2016)
   E.   All meetings of the commission shall be open to the public and shall be
held at the call of the chairman or the other six (6) members within sixteen
(16) days after receipt by the commission of any application for approval of
appropriateness. (Ord. 08-08, 2-18-2008)
2-2-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Review of all applications for approval of appropriateness at a public
meeting by evaluating the proposed improvement, alteration and demolition by
determining compliance with the appearance review code.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application and after a public meeting: 1) issue
approval of appropriateness, 2) issue approval of appropriateness subject to
modification of the application or 3) deny approval of appropriateness. In the
event an applicant appeals the appropriateness approval subject to modification
of an application or denial of approval of appropriateness to the village
board, the commission may issue a recommendation to the village board in
response to such appeal.
   C.   Make recommendations to the village board regarding amendments to the
appearance review code.
   D.   The commission shall work for the continuing education of the citizens
of the village with respect to the historic and architectural heritage of the
village. (Ord. 08-08, 2-18-2008)
2-2-5: GENERAL JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Applications for approval of appropriateness are required for the
following types of construction within the "historic district" as defined in
title 9, chapter 6 of this code:
      1.   Demolition.
      2.   New single-family.
      3.   Single-family exterior.
      4.   New multiple-family.
      5.   Multiple-family remodel/addition.
      6.   New commercial/industrial.
      7.   Commercial/industrial remodel/addition: All building elevations and
site designs as visible from public right of way.
      8.   Signs: Freestanding, wall and permanent window that is not subject
to previous approval by the commission tenant sign criteria.
   B.   Applications for approval of appropriateness are required for the
following types of construction outside the historic district:
      1.   New single-family: Infill only.
      2.   Single-family exterior remodel/additions: When front elevation
improvements exceed forty five percent (45%) of assessed value for building.
      3.   New multiple-family remodel/addition: When front elevation
improvements exceed forty five percent (45%) of assessed value for building.
      4.   New commercial/industrial remodel/addition: All elevations and site
designs as visible from public way.
      5.   Signs: Freestanding and wall when not subject to previous approval
by the commission tenant sign criteria.
      6.   Front yard fences where allowed. (Ord. 08-08, 2-18-2008)
2-2-6: APPEAL PROCESS:
Any decision of the commission may be appealed to the board of trustees as per
procedures provided in the appearance review code. (Ord. 08-08, 2-18-2008)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
ARTICLE A. BOARD PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-3A-1: Source Of Authority
2-3A-2: Definitions
2-3A-3: Creation, Appointments, Terms
2-3A-4: Qualifications; Removal
2-3A-5: Compensation
2-3A-6: Meetings
2-3A-7: Duties
2-3A-8: Conflict With State Statutes
2-3A-1: SOURCE OF AUTHORITY:
The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners (commission) of the Village of West
Dundee (Village) derives its power and authority from 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/10-2.1-1 et seq., (Act). To the extent that these rules conflict
with provisions of the Act, these rules shall be deemed to apply pursuant to
the home rule powers of the Village. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-
31, 12-17-2022)
2-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
COMMISSION:        The Board of fire and police commissioners of the Village of
                   West Dundee.
DEPARTMENT:        Police Department and/or the Fire Department.
FIRE DEPARTMENT:   The Village of West Dundee Fire Department.
                   Any person successfully completing the required probationary
OFFICER:           period and holding a permanent full-time position as a
                   police officer of the police department or firefighter of
                   the fire department.
POLICE DEPARTMENT: The Village of West Dundee Police Department. (Ord. 97-25,
                   10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 12-17-2022)
 
2-3A-3: CREATION, APPOINTMENTS, TERMS:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created a board of fire and police
commissioners consisting of three (3) members. The members of the commission
must be residents of the Village and will be considered officers of the
Village. The members of the commission shall file an oath of office with the
village clerk.
   B.   Appointments, Terms: The commissioners shall be appointed by the
village president, with the advice and consent of the Board of trustees. The
terms of office of the commissioners shall be three (3) years and until their
respective successors shall be appointed and qualified; provided, that no such
appointments shall be made by the village president within thirty (30) days
before the expiration of his term of office; and provided further, that the
president shall appoint the first members of such commission, one of whom shall
be appointed to serve until the end of the current municipal year in which such
appointment is made, another shall serve until the end of the municipal year
next ensuing, and the third shall serve until the end of the municipal year
second next ensuing; provided, that each of the first members of the commission
shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-
1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 12-17-2022)
2-3A-4: QUALIFICATIONS; REMOVAL:
   A.   The commissioners shall have such qualifications as are now, or may
hereafter be, required of them by law. No person may serve on the commission
who is an officer or precinct captain of any "established party" as defined in
the election code 1 , or who is an elected official of any governmental body.
No person shall be appointed as a member of the commission who is related,
either by blood or marriage, up to the degree of first cousin to any elected
official of the Village. Contrary to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-3,
all members of the commission may belong to the same political party.
   B.   Commissioners shall not be subject to removal except for cause upon
written charges and after an opportunity to be heard in their own defense
before a public meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village. A majority
vote of the President and Board of Trustees shall be required to remove any
such Commissioner from office. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 12-
17-2022)
 
Notes
1    10 ILCS 5/10-2.
2-3A-5: COMPENSATION:
The Commissioners shall be paid as follows:
 
Chairman      $750.00 per year
Commissioners 750.00 per year
Secretary     750.00 per year
 
These amounts are payable in December of each year unless a Commissioner leaves
prior to the December payment, in which case the Commissioner and his or her
successor shall be paid pro rata to or from the date of the end of the leaving
Commissioner's term. (Ord. 2018-34, 12-17-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 12-17-2022)
2-3A-6: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The location, date and time of regular meetings shall
be established at the first meeting in May for the forthcoming year.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by, or at the request
of, the Chairman, or any two (2) Commissioners.
   C.   Open Meetings: The Illinois Open Meetings Act shall apply to all
meetings 1 .
   D.   Parliamentary Procedure: The parliamentary procedure prescribed in
"Robert's Rules of Order" shall govern the commission's proceedings. (Ord. 97-
25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 12-17-2022)
 
Notes
1    5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-3A-7: DUTIES:
   A.   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall appoint all officers
of the Fire and Police Departments, except those exempted by subsection
2-3D-7G of this chapter and shall conduct and hold all entrance and promotional
examinations in the manner provided by law. It shall have all such powers and
duties as are now or as may hereafter be empowered to it by statute.
   B.   The commission shall annually, at the first meeting in May, elect a
Chairman and a Secretary. They shall hold office for one year or until their
successors are duly elected and qualified. The Chairman shall be the presiding
officer at all meetings. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings
of the commission in a permanent record book and shall be the custodian of all
the forms, papers, books, records, and completed examinations of the
commission, which material shall always remain at a Village building. Should a
change in the commission membership vacate one or all officers, the new
commission shall, at its next meeting, elect new officers to fill the unexpired
terms.
   C.   The commission shall submit to the Village an annual report of its
activities as required by section 5/10-2.1-19 of the Act, and a budget request
for the ensuing year, on or before the close of each calendar year. (Ord. 97-
25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 12-17-2022)
2-3A-8: CONFLICT WITH STATE STATUTES:
Any chapters, sections, and/or subsections of these rules and regulations for
the operation of the commission, which conflict with the Illinois or United
States Constitution and found by a court of law to exceed the home rule powers
of the Village, shall be deemed null and void. This, however, shall not be
deemed to invalidate any other chapters, sections, and/or subsections of these
rules or this chapter. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 12-17-2022)
ARTICLE B. QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANTS
SECTION:
2-3B-1: Residence
2-3B-2: Applications
2-3B-3: Qualifications
2-3B-4: Disqualification
2-3B-5: Notice Of Acceptance For Eligibility
2-3B-1: RESIDENCE:
Any person who becomes an officer of the department shall reside within the
agreed upon radius from the West Dundee Village Hall, 102 South Second Street,
West Dundee, Illinois, within a period of twelve (12) months from the date of
his or her initial hire as set forth within the respective bargaining unit’s
current collective bargaining agreement but in no event shall that radius be
greater than seventy-five (75) miles. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-
31, 10-17-2022; Ord. 2024-25, 11-18-2024)
2-3B-2: APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Orientation: The commission shall furnish application forms for
positions in the department prior to the orientation program, as published.
   B.   Filing:
      1.   Applications for original appointment to the department shall be
returned as specified at the orientation program. All such applications shall
be addressed to the commission and filed at the village public safety building.
All applications shall be completely filled out and shall be signed. Any
application which is not completely filled out will automatically be rejected.
      2.   Persons making untruthful answers to questions in said application
shall be rejected by the commission and the applicant notified of such action.
      3.   It shall constitute cause for discharge if, after becoming an
officer in the department, it is discovered that a false statement was made or
that any material facts were misrepresented on the application form submitted
to the department by the officer. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31,
10-17-2022)
2-3B-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Special Qualifications: If a position requires special qualifications,
the commission may require evidence of special training or practical experience
prior to examination.
   B.   Special Requirements: Applicants for original appointment must be
United States citizens and shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of age on
the day of the application deadline. No person shall be eligible to take the
fire and/or police department entry level examination unless such person
possesses a high school diploma or an equivalent high school education. Any
candidate for a firefighter paramedic position must be licensed by IDPH as an
EMT at the time of the written examination and licensure as an EMT-P by the
time of a conditional offer of appointment. All applicants shall be under
thirty-five (35) years of age on the day of the application deadline, except as
allowed by Illinois State Statute. Proof of birth date will be required at time
of application. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 05-03, 2-7-2005; Ord. 2022-
31, 10-17-2022)
2-3B-4: DISQUALIFICATION:
   A.   The commission may refuse to examine any applicant, or, after
examination, may refuse to certify any applicant as eligible, or may remove any
applicant from the eligible list:
      1.   Who is found lacking in any of the established preliminary
requirements for the position applied for;
      2.   Who is physically unable to perform the essential functions of the
job, even with a reasonable accommodation;
      3.   Who currently illegally uses drugs and/or narcotics or abuses
intoxicating beverages;
      4.   Who has practiced or attempted to practice any deception or fraud in
the application or application process;
      5.   Whose character and/or employment references are unsatisfactory; or
      6.   Who has a record of any misdemeanor or felony conviction including,
but not limited to, any section of the criminal code 1 .
   B.   Any applicant disqualified for any of the above-mentioned reasons shall
be notified in writing by the commission that said individual does not meet the
standards for appointment to the position of officer with the department. (Ord.
97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
 
Notes
1    720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
2-3B-5: NOTICE OF ACCEPTANCE FOR ELIGIBILITY:
The secretary of the commission will notify all applicants whose applications
have been accepted by the commission. Said notification will instruct the
applicants to report for examinations at a specified location and at a
specified time and date. At the time of the examination the applicant must
execute a waiver of liability form provided by the commission. (Ord. 97-25, 10-
20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
ARTICLE C. EXAMINATIONS
SECTION:
2-3C-1: Notice Of Examination
2-3C-2: Examinations
2-3C-3: Tests And Fact Sheets For Original Appointments
2-3C-4: Eligible Registers And Appointments
2-3C-5: Probation
2-3C-1: NOTICE OF EXAMINATION:
Examinations shall be held on the dates fixed by the commission and advertised
in a local newspaper or on the Village's website in accordance with the
Statutes of the State of Illinois. Examinations may be postponed, however, by
order of the commission, which order shall state the reason for such
postponement and shall designate a new date for said examination. Applicants
shall be notified of the postponement of any examination and of the new date
fixed for said examination. (Ord. 18-16, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-
2022)
2-3C-2: EXAMINATIONS:
   A.   Call For Examination: The commission shall call examinations to fill
vacancies in the class of service in which vacancies are liable to occur. A
call for such examination shall be entered in the minutes of the commission and
shall include a statement of:
      1.   The time and place where such examination will be held;
      2.   The position to be filled from the resulting eligibility register.
   B.   Applications: Applications will be received for at least a two (2) week
period. Applications for a position shall be filed upon blank forms furnished
by the commission or its agent, and applicants must comply with the
requirements of said form in every respect. The application must be filed with
the Board prior to taking an examination.
Every applicant must be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound
health and must be physically able to perform the duties of the position
applied for. The burden of establishing these facts rests upon the applicant.
The applicant shall furnish a copy of his military service record (If
Applicable), discharge papers (If Applicable), social security card, birth
certificate, high school diploma or GED certificate, a copy of his college or
university degree and, if requested, a copy of a certified transcript of his
coursework from an accredited college or university to the commission at the
oral interview.
   C.   Disqualification: A false statement knowingly made by a person in an
application for examination, connivance in any false statement made in any
certificate which may accompany such application or complicity in any fraud
touching the same, shall be regarded as good cause for exclusion from the
examination.
   D.   The Board may refuse to examine an applicant or, after examination, to
certify him as eligible:
      1.   Who is found lacking in any of the established preliminary
requirements for the service for which he or she applies.
      2.   Who is physically unable to perform the duties of the position to
which he or she seeks appointment.
      3.   Who is addicted to the use of drugs or intoxicating beverages or is
found to have taken or used drugs and/or narcotics illegally.
      4.   Who has been convicted of a felony or any misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude, as specified in section 5/10-2.10-6.3 of the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners Act.
      5.   Who has been dismissed from any public service for good cause.
      6.   Who has attempted to practice any deception or fraud in his or her
application.
      7.   Who may be found disqualified in personal qualifications or health.
      8.   Whose character and employment references are unsatisfactory.
      9.   Who does not possess a high school education or its equivalent.
      10.   Who has applied for a position as a police officer and is or has
been classified by his or her local Selective Service Draft Board as a
conscientious objector.
      11.   Who has applied for a position as a firefighter/paramedic and is
not certified as EMT-B with the Illinois Department of Public Health.
      12.   All applicants will be a minimum of twenty-one (21) years old on
the date of the written exam.
      13.   All applicants will be citizens of the United States of America.
   E.   Type Of Examinations: Applicants must attend the orientation program
sponsored by the commission. In addition, applicants shall be required to
participate in a physical aptitude test and written and oral examinations as
determined by the commission and as more particularly set forth in section
2-3C-3 of this article. No examination shall contain questions regarding
applicants' political or religious opinions or affiliations. (Ord. 18-16, 8-6-
2018; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3C-3: TESTS AND FACT SHEETS FOR ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   The commission recognizes that actual tests, weights and procedures
employed in the hiring and promoting of candidates are controlled by changing
law and technical procedures. To adapt efficiently to this state of affairs,
the commission shall separate rules from actual test procedures by the
mechanism of the fact sheet.
      2.   The fact sheet shall be considered a policy statement by the
commission for a specific list of eligible. Although bound by dictates of each
individual fact sheet, no fact sheet shall be construed as rules under Illinois
Compiled Statutes and may be changed, at the commission's discretion, without
public notice, for such legal, technical, professional, or practical reasons as
the commission may choose. The fact sheet shall become a part of the minutes
and records of the commission.
      3.   Tests employed by the commission shall conform to recognized
professional standards and shall give deference to Federal, State, and local
regulations relative to employment and testing. The commission shall consider
and may be guided by controlling authority, be it State or Federal, to effect
substantial compliance with the law.
      4.   At the discretion of the commission, tests may be conducted by or
with the assistance of such consultants as the commission may appoint.
   B.   Fact Sheet Usage:
      1.   The commission shall publish, deliver, and otherwise make available
to all candidates a fact sheet of hiring or promotional information at the
mandatory orientation prior to the first scored procedure.
      2.   The fact sheet shall contain such information and guidelines as are
normally given and professionally recommended and may include, but shall not be
limited to, the order and type of tests and prerequisites that shall comprise
the testing procedure culminating in a list of eligible candidates.
      3.   The fact sheet shall include each scored or mandatory step of the
testing for positions under commission purview, and such weights and passing
scores, if any, as are employed in the calculation of the list position.
      4.   The fact sheet may also include such information as:
         a.   Application procedures and consequences, testing dates and
locations, required materials or dress.
         b.   Necessary prerequisites for employment such as age, education,
medical condition, citizenship, etc.
         c.   Responsibility for current address, and procedure for
notification of results by the commission.
         d.   Procedures and deadlines for seeking redress of action.
         e.   Conditions of employment such as pay, benefits, probation
procedures, waivers of appointment privileges, postemployment residency, and
conduct requirements.
         f.   Methods of contacting commission, review principles.
   C.   Examinations And Placement Upon Eligibility Registers: Examinations at
the entry level may include, but are not limited to: orientations, physical
aptitudes, written, psychological, oral, medical, polygraph deception
detection, drug screens, and background investigation. The sequence of testing
may vary at the discretion of the Board. Failure to achieve the minimum passing
grade in any examination disqualifies the applicant from any further
participation. Each weighted component of the examination process shall be
based upon a scale of one to one hundred (100). The commission, at its
discretion, may employ a testing vendor(s) to conduct any of the examinations
administered pursuant to these rules. Physical aptitude test may be given for
demonstration purposes or on a pass/fail basis. Certification that a
firefighter candidate has successfully, within the twelve (12) months
immediately preceding the administration of the written conditional offer of
employment, passed the candidate physical ability test (CPAT) with ladder
climb, as licensed and approved by the International Fire Chief's Association
and the International Association of Fire Fighters, satisfies the candidate's
obligation to complete the "physical aptitude test" component of this screening
process for firefighter/paramedic.
      1.   Physical Aptitude Test: All applicants will be required to submit
themselves to a physical aptitude test.
      2.   Written Examinations: Information as to the type of written
examination employed by the commission will be provided as part of the
orientation program. All examination papers shall be and remain the property of
the commission and the grading thereof by the commission shall be final and
conclusive and not subject to review by any other board or tribunal of any kind
or description. Candidates who fail to achieve a passing grade will be notified
and eliminated from all further consideration.
      3.   Oral Examination: A minimum of two (2) Commissioners' questions
shall be asked of the candidate that will enable the Commissioners to properly
evaluate and grade the candidate on speech, alertness, ability to communicate,
judgment, emotional stability, self-confidence, social skills, and general
fitness for the position. On completion of each oral examination, each
Commissioner will then evaluate the candidate. Each Commissioner will then
grade the candidate. The candidate's final grade will be the average of the
grades assessed by the Commissioners. The candidates who fail to successfully
complete the oral examination will be notified and eliminated from all further
consideration.
      4.   Background Investigation: All applicants who have successfully
passed the oral examination interview shall submit to a background
investigation. This investigation shall require each applicant to execute
consent forms to facilitate the investigation. Failure or refusal to execute
the required consent forms or pass this investigation shall result in failure
of the applicant to be considered further.
      5.   Polygraph Examination: All applicants who have successfully passed
the background investigation shall submit to a polygraph device deceptive test,
commonly known as a lie detector test, as directed by the commission. The
failure of the applicant to pass this examination shall result in the failure
of the applicant to be considered further. (Ord. 18-16, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord.
2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3C-4: ELIGIBLE REGISTERS AND APPOINTMENTS:
The commission shall prepare and keep a register of all eligible applicants.
All vacancies to the department shall be filled with the first applicant listed
on the register, except as otherwise provided in the Act. When the department
deems it necessary to fill a vacancy, an offer of employment with the
department shall be made to the first applicant on the eligible register,
subject to the conditions that the applicant successfully passes the polygraph
examination, psychological examination, and medical examination as set forth in
this section.
   A.   Police Officer:
      1.   Initial Eligibility Register:
         a.   The Commissioners will prepare an "initial eligibility register"
of the candidates successfully completing the orientation, physical ability
test (if any) and written test. Candidates shall be placed and listed on the
eligibility register in order of their relative excellence as determined by
their test scores.
         b.   This register is subject to change with the addition of any
claimed preference points. Preference points will not be added to any
candidate's score if that candidate failed to obtain a minimum passing score.
Candidates who are eligible for any preference points, shall make a claim in
writing with proof thereof within ten (10) days after the date of the first
posting of the initial eligibility register or such claim shall be deemed
waived. Preference points will be awarded as prescribed in 5/10-2.1-8 and 5/10-
2.1-9 (a) of the Act.
         c.   A dated copy of the initial eligibility register, duly adjusted
with preference points awarded, shall be sent to each person appearing thereon.
         d.   A candidate's name shall be stricken from an initial eligibility
register or a subsequent primary register after the name has been on the
initial eligibility register for a period exceeding two (2) years.
      2.   Final Eligibility Register:
         a.   Final appointment for the Police Department shall be from the
names appearing on the "final eligibility register".
         b.   The Board shall select a number of candidates (the number to be
determined at the discretion of the Board and announced at orientation) from
the top of the initial eligibility register who shall be required to submit to
an oral interview to be conducted by the Board and, if successful, whose names
will be included on the "final eligibility register".
         c.   The names of the applicants shall be placed upon the "final
eligibility register" in rank order, highest first. Rank order shall be based
upon the applicant's total cumulative score which shall be calculated as
indicated on the fact sheet (see subsection
2-3C-3B, "Fact Sheet Usage", of this article).
         d.   In the event a "final eligibility register" is exhausted prior to
the expiration of the "initial eligibility register", the Board may establish
another "final eligibility register" in accordance with subsections A2a through
A2c of this section.
         e.   Applicants shall be appointed from the eligibility register in
descending order. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained within
these rules and regulations, the Board may, at its discretion, choose to
appoint an applicant, for a police officer's position, who has been awarded a
certificate attesting to his or her successful completion of the minimum
standards basic law enforcement training course, as provided in the Illinois
Police Training Act, ahead of noncertified applicants.
         f.   Appointment from the final eligibility register is subject to
satisfactorily passing or completing an in-depth psychological examination, a
polygraph test, background investigation, and a thorough medical examination
(which may include a test of the applicant's vision and hearing, a test for the
presence of communicable diseases as well as a test to screen for the use of
drugs and/or narcotics). A conditional offer of employment shall be made prior
to an applicant submitting to the in-depth psychological examination and the
medical exam.
   B.   Firefighter/Paramedic:
      1.   Preliminary Eligibility Register: The Commissioners will prepare a
"preliminary eligibility register" of the candidates who have attended the
orientation and passed the written test. Candidates shall be placed on the
preliminary eligibility register in the order of their relative excellence as
determined by their written test scores.
      2.   Initial Eligibility Register:
         a.   The Board shall select a number of candidates (the number to be
determined at the discretion of the Board and announced at orientation) from
the top of the preliminary eligibility list who shall be required to
successfully complete a physical agility examination (CPAT) and submit to an
oral interview to be administered by the Board and, if successful, their names
will be included on the "initial eligibility register".
         b.   The names of the applicants shall be placed upon the "initial
eligibility register" in rank order, highest first. All scored examinations
shall be based upon a scale of one to one hundred (100). Rank order shall be
based upon the applicant's total cumulative score which shall be calculated as
follows:
            (1)   Original written test score multiplied by seventy percent
(70%); and,
            (2)   Oral interview score multiplied by thirty percent (30%).
      3.   Final Eligibility Register:
         a.   Within ten (10) days after the posting of the initial eligibility
register, applicants whose names appear thereon shall make a claim for
preference points. Failure to timely make a claim for preference points shall
constitute a waiver thereof. Preference points shall be awarded as follows:
            (1)   Military preference - five (5) points. Awarded to applicants
who have served a minimum of twelve (12) months on active duty in the service
of the U.S. military and who have either been honorably discharged or, in lieu
of an honorable discharge, are still serving in an active or inactive reserve
status.
            (2)   Fire cadet training - none.
            (3)   Education preference - (2.5) points. Candidates must have an
associate's degree in fire science or emergency medical services from an
accredited community or junior college or a bachelor's degree in any field from
an accredited college or university.
            (4)   Paramedic preference - Paramedic (2.5) - Current EMT-
P license by the Illinois Department of Public Health
            (5)   Experience points - none.
            (6)   Residency points - none.
            (7)   Additional points - one to ten (10) points. Candidates
currently employed by the West Dundee Fire Department or who was employed by
the West Dundee Fire department in a part-time capacity and left the department
in good standing within 18 months before the application deadline shall be
awarded one point for one full year of cumulative service; three (3) total
points for two (2) full years of cumulative service; or five (5) total points
for three (3) or more full years of cumulative service. Eligibility will be
verified by the Chief of the department. Additional Certifications (5) - 2.5
points for certification by the Illinois State Fire Marshal's Office as a Basic
Operations Firefighter (Firefighter 2); an additional 2.5 points for
certification by the Illinois State Fire Marshal's Office as an Advanced
Technician Firefighter (Firefighter 3).
         b.   Applicants shall be appointed from the final eligibility register
in descending order. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
the commission, at its discretion, may bypass a higher ranking candidate and
appoint a lower ranking candidate if, in the commission's opinion, the lower
ranking candidate is more qualified for the position and that candidate's name
appears within the top five percent (5%) of the names remaining on the list or,
if there is less than one hundred (100) names remaining on the register, the
applicant's name is within the top five (5) names remaining on the register.
         c.   Appointment from the final eligibility register is subject to
satisfactorily passing or completing an in-depth psychological examination, a
polygraph test, background investigation, and a thorough medical examination
(which may include a test of the applicant's vision and hearing, a test for the
presence of communicable diseases as well as a test to screen for the use of
drugs and/or narcotics). Candidates shall also provide proof of CPAT
certification with ladder climb which has been completed within the twelve (12)
months immediately preceding the date of a conditional offer of employment. A
conditional offer of employment shall be made prior to an applicant submitting
to the in-depth psychological examination and the medical exam.
         d.   In the event a "final eligibility register" is exhausted prior to
the expiration of the "initial eligibility register", the Board may establish
another "final eligibility register" in accordance with this subsection B3.
Names will be stricken from the "final eligibility register" and the initial
eligibility register after the names have appeared on the original "initial
eligibility register" in excess of two (2) years.
   C.   Police Officer - Accelerated Entry/lateral Transfer:
      1.   In addition to original appointment to the Village of West Dundee
Police Department as set forth in Section A of these rules, the Board may
create a second eligibility register of persons who have previously been full-
time sworn officers of a regular police department in any municipality, county,
university or State law enforcement agency provided they are certified by the
Illinois Law Enforcement Training standards Board and have been with their
respective law enforcement agency within the State for at least two (2) years.
      2.   All accelerated entry process applicants must provide documentation
at the time of initial application to show their previous responsibilities and
duties are similar to those of a Police Officer in the Village of West Dundee.
This will be accomplished using a combination of the West Dundee Police
Department Lateral Transfer application, employee evaluations, past and current
assignments, and training certificates.
Applicants must provide documentation that they have fulfilled the requirements
of the Illinois Police Training Act at the time of initial application.
      3.   The Board may accept applications from candidates interested in
accelerated entry at any time.
      4.   Accelerated entry applicants who meet the requirements of Sections
C1 and C2 above shall submit to an oral interview to be conducted by the Board.
The Board may conduct oral interviews of those applicants at such times as is
necessary and as determined at the discretion of the Board.
      5.   The names of the applicants shall be placed upon the eligibility
register in rank order, highest first. Rank order shall be based upon the
applicant's oral interview score and application preference points (military
and/or educational)
      6.   An original accelerated entry register shall be established by the
Board. After the establishment of the original accelerated entry register the
names of applicants will be inserted onto the register based upon their oral
interview scores and application of preference points (military and/or
educational). Names shall be stricken from the register after two (2) years.
Applicants who have been stricken from the register may reapply and shall be
subject to the requirements outlined in C1 and C2 of this section.
      7.   Applicants shall be appointed from the eligibility register in
descending order.
      8.   Appointment from the final eligibility register is subject to
satisfactorily passing or completing an in-depth psychological examination, a
polygraph test, background investigation, and a thorough medical examination
(which may include a test of the applicant's vision and hearing, a test for the
presence of communicable diseases as well as a test to screen for the use of
drugs and/or narcotics). A conditional offer of employment shall be made prior
to an applicant submitting to the in-depth psychological examination and the
medical exam.
      9.   After being hired, the applicants will be required to successfully
complete a field training program and twelve (12) month probation period.
      10.   The Board and the Chief of Police will determine in all cases which
list will be used to fill any existing vacancy.
      11.   Any lateral entry list established by the Board shall remain active
indefinitely or may terminate when no viable candidate names remain on the
list.
      12.   All other provisions of these rules, including promotions shall be
applicable to all applicants of the accelerated process who accept an offer of
employment and complete the probationary period. (Ord. 18-16, 8-6-2018; amd.
Ord. 2021-04, 3-15-2021; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3C-5: PROBATION:
Upon original appointment, all appointee firefighters shall serve in a
probationary capacity for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months from the
first date of appointment. Upon original appointment, all appointee police
officers shall serve in a probationary capacity for a period of twelve (12)
consecutive months from the date of successful completion of basic training as
required by 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/1 et seq. No probationary police
officer or firefighter shall be eligible for promotion. During this
probationary period the police officer's or firefighter's employment may be
terminated, at any time, for any reason or no reason at all by the respective
Police Chief or Fire Chief. (Ord. 18-16, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-
2022)
ARTICLE D. CLASSIFICATION, OATH, RANK AND PROMOTIONS
SECTION:
2-3D-1: Rank
2-3D-2: Classification
2-3D-3: Oath Of Office
2-3D-4: Rules And Orders
2-3D-5: Leave Of Absence
2-3D-6: Police Department Promotional Procedures
2-3D-7: Fire Department Promotional Procedures
2-3D-1: RANK 1 :
   A.   The order of rank in the police department shall be as provided by
ordinance and the municipal budget.
   B.   The order of rank in the fire department shall be as provided by
ordinance and the municipal budget. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31,
10-17-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-8A-2E of this code.
2-3D-2: CLASSIFICATION:
The commission classifies such offices in the fire and police departments for
the purpose of establishing and maintaining standards of examinations and
promotions based upon job descriptions and departmental regulations. (Ord. 97-
25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3D-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
Before entering duty, any person about to become a member of the police
department or fire department shall take the following oath, before any person
authorized to administer oaths in the state of Illinois:
I                       , do solemnly swear or affirm that I will support the
Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
           according to the best of my ability.
Signed
Subscribed and sworn to before me this              day of               ,     
.
(Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3D-4: RULES AND ORDERS:
   A.   All officers and members of the fire department and police department
shall observe and obey all rules and orders of the commission which are in
force or which may be adopted hereafter as well as all regulations for the
operation of a fire department and police department as adopted by the Board of
trustees and in force or which may be adopted hereafter. The village board
hereby authorizes the police chief and fire chief to establish further rules
and regulations and standard operating procedures applicable to their
respective departments.
   B.   A notice shall be published, in a newspaper of general circulation in
the municipality, specifying where such rules are available for inspection. The
notice shall specify the date, not less than ten (10) days subsequent to the
date of such publication, when said rules shall become effective. (Ord. 97-25,
10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3D-5: LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
Leaves of absence shall be granted by reason of military service or duty
related disability as specified in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-23.
If a leave of absence is granted by the commission during a probationary
period, such probationary period shall be tolled until the probationary
employee returns from his leave of absence. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord.
2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3D-6: POLICE DEPARTMENT PROMOTIONAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Generally: Except as to exempt ranks as set forth in this section, and
except as provided otherwise herein, promotions in the department shall be
governed by section 5/10-2.1-15 of the Act. The method of examination and the
rules governing promotions are the same as provided for applicants for original
appointment, except as follows:
      1.   Competitive Among Members: All examinations for promotion shall be
competitive among such members of the next lower rank as desire to submit
themselves to examination.
      2.   Grading: All officers who submit themselves to examination will be
graded according to the following schedule:
         a.   Promotion Potential Rating: Points to be specified in the fact
sheet issued by the commission for this process. To identify a candidate's
promotional potential, each candidate shall receive a promotional potential
rating (as opposed to job performance). The manner in which the rating is
prepared shall be at the discretion of the chief of the police department. The
promotional potential rating shall be conducted as follows:
            (1)   The chief of the department shall notify each candidate in
writing, no less than one month prior to the rating, the manner in which the
rating will be prepared, which rating will be reviewed by the village manager.
            (2)   Information concerning the nature and scope of the rating
procedure is to be forwarded to the commissioners no less than three (3) weeks
prior to the rating process and prior to the notification of each participating
candidate.
         b.   Written Examination: Points to be specified in the fact sheet
issued by the commission for this process.
         c.   Personal Interview: Points to be specified in the fact sheet
issued by the commission for this process.
Maximum grade: One hundred (100) points.
      3.   Promotion Tests: Examinations at the promotional level may include,
but are not limited to, written, oral, and promotion potential rating and to be
determined by the commission prior to testing and provided to candidates as
part of the promotional fact sheet.
      4.   Preferential Credit Points: No preferential credit points will be
awarded in connection with any promotional eligibility list.
      5.   Service Required: An officer must have served a minimum of three (3)
years (whether in this department or another police department) in the rank of
full-time patrol officer and completed his/her probationary period before being
eligible for appointment to the rank of sergeant. An officer must have served
one full year in the immediately preceding rank before being eligible for
appointment to the next higher rank.
      6.   Review Of Reports or Evaluations: As part of the promotion process,
the commission shall review, with the prior written consent of the officer, any
and all reports or evaluations of the police chief relating to the officer.
      7.   Injury Not to Disqualify: Officers injured while on duty or in the
discharge of duty shall not be disqualified from promotion. Where such injuries
occur, the chief of the department shall notify the commission, in writing, of
the nature of the injuries and the circumstances under which the injuries were
received.
   B.   Notification Of Test Results/Grading: Upon completion of each phase of
the examination, each candidate will be notified whether the candidate passed
or failed that phase of the examination. Upon completion of all written and
oral examinations, applicants will be advised of their scores by posting of an
eligibility list with a three (3) year limit.
   C.   Posting Of Sergeant Position Eligibility List: The commission will
prepare an eligible register of all police candidates successfully passing all
examinations for the position of sergeant. The police candidates shall be
listed by grade.
   D.   Test Results Interview: After the examination process is completed, a
candidate may request an interview with the commission to help the candidate
identify areas of weakness which need improvement. Requests for such interviews
should be addressed to the secretary of the commission in writing and will be
scheduled by the commission.
   E.   Promotion: Promotions of personnel in the police department as provided
for in this article, will be made by the chief from the three (3) candidates
receiving the highest promotion scores.
   F.   Probationary Period: All appointments to the position of sergeant in
the police department shall be subject to a promotional probationary period of
twelve (12) months. Any such appointee who fails to satisfactorily complete
his/her promotional probationary period, as solely determined by the chief of
the department without hearing or cause, shall be returned to his/her prior
rank except when such appointee retires, resigns or is discharged for cause.
   G.   Exempt Positions: The police chief and deputy police chief are exempt
from and not subject to the provisions of the Act. Should the police chief or
deputy police chief not be reappointed, then he/she shall revert to his/her
former commission rank. (Ord. 02-18, 6-17-2002; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 10-14, 5-
17-2010; Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3D-7: FIRE DEPARTMENT PROMOTIONAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Generally: Except as to exempt ranks as set forth in subsection G of
this section, and except as provided otherwise herein, promotions in the
department shall be governed by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-15 of
the Act. The method of examination and the rules governing promotions are the
same as provided for applicants for original appointment, except as follows:
      1.   Competitive Among Members: All examinations for promotion shall be
competitive among such members of the next lower ranks as desire to submit
themselves to examination.
      2.   Grading: All firefighter/paramedics who submit themselves to
examination will be graded according to the terms of the collective bargaining
agreement.
   B.   Notification Of Test Results/Grading: Upon completion of each phase of
the examination, each officer candidate will be notified whether the candidate
passed or failed that phase of the examination. Upon completion of all written
and oral examinations, officer candidates will be advised of their scores by
posting of an eligibility list with a three (3) year limit.
   C.   Posting Of Lieutenant Position Eligibility List: The commission will
prepare an eligible register of all officer candidates successfully passing all
examinations for the position of fire lieutenant. The fire lieutenant
candidates shall be listed by grade.
   D.   Test Results Interview: After the examination process is completed, an
officer candidate may request an interview with the commission to help the
candidate identify areas of weakness which need improvement. Requests for such
interviews should be addressed to the secretary of the commission in writing
and will be scheduled by the commission.
   E.   Promotion: Promotions of personnel in the fire department as provided
for in this article, will be made by the fire chief from the three (3)
candidates receiving the highest promotion scores.
   F.   Probationary Period: All appointments to the position of lieutenant or
captain in the fire department shall be subject to a promotional probationary
period of twelve (12) months. Any such appointee who fails to satisfactorily
complete his/her promotional probationary period, as solely determined by the
chief of the fire department without hearing or cause, shall be returned to
his/her prior rank except when such appointee retires, resigns, or is
discharged for cause.
   G.   Exempt Positions: The fire chief and assistant fire chief are exempt
from and not subject to the provisions of the Act. Should the fire chief or
assistant chief not be reappointed, then he/she shall revert to his former
commission rank. (Ord. 06-41, 7-24-2006; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
ARTICLE E. HEARING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
2-3E-1: General Provisions
2-3E-2: Hearing Procedure
2-3E-3: Subpoenas
2-3E-4: Filing
2-3E-5: Forms Of Paper
2-3E-6: Suspension
2-3E-7: Discharge, Suspension Or Demotion After Hearing
2-3E-8: Date Of Hearing
2-3E-9: Rules; Conflict
2-3E-10: Violations
2-3E-11: Finding And Decision
2-3E-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Hearings before the commission are not common law proceedings. The
provisions of the Illinois code of civil procedure do not apply to hearings
before the commission.
   B.   "Counsel" as used herein means one who has been admitted to the bar as
an attorney at law in Illinois.
   C.   No rehearing, reconsideration, modification, vacation, or alteration of
a decision of the commission will be allowed.
   D.   Cause for discharge is some substantial shortcoming which renders
continuance in employment in some way detrimental to the discipline and
efficiency of the public service and which the law and sound public opinion
recognize as cause for the officer to no longer occupy his or her position.
   E.   The commission has the sole right and authority to determine what
constitutes cause for discharge.
   F.   The burden of proof rests upon the complainant who initiates any
proceedings which provide for a hearing before the commission. The standard for
the burden of proof is a preponderance of the evidence.
   G.   The phrase "preponderance of the evidence" is defined as the greater
weight of the evidence; that is to say, it rests with the evidence which, when
fairly considered, produces the stronger impression, has a greater weight, and
is more convincing as to its truth when weighted against the evidence in
opposition.
   H.   All hearings shall be conducted pursuant to the Illinois open meetings
act.
   I.   At the time and place of hearing, both parties may be represented by
counsel, if they so desire.
   J.   All proceedings before the commission during the conduct of the hearing
shall be recorded by a court reporter to be employed by the commission.
   K.   The records of all hearings will not be transcribed by the court
reporter unless requested by the commission or any party in interest. Should
any party in interest request transcription, that party shall be responsible
for the costs of transcription.
   L.   The commission will first hear the witnesses substantiating the charges
which have been made against the respondent. Thereafter, the respondent may
present and examine those witnesses whom he or she desires the commission to
hear. All parties shall have the right to cross examine witnesses presented by
the opposite party. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3E-2: HEARING PROCEDURE:
   A.   General: Pursuant to section 5/10-2.1-17 of the Act, the commission
shall, upon filing of written charges against a particular officer or upon
written request for appeal by a police officer or firefighter of a suspension
by the chief, conduct the hearing as prescribed by the Act. In all cases, the
original written charges, or written requests for appeal, shall be filed with
four (4) copies setting forth a plain and concise statement of the facts upon
which the charges, or appeal, are based.
   B.   Notice: Upon the filing of written charges, or upon receipt of a
written request for appeal, and, if applicable, after the commission has made a
determination as to whether probable cause exists for conducting a hearing on
the charges, the secretary of the commission shall notify the complainant and
respondent, either by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,
or personally, of the time and place scheduled for the hearing. Along with this
notice to the respondent, the commission shall enclose a copy of the charges or
the request for appeal.
   C.   Continuances: The matter of granting or refusing to grant a continuance
of a hearing is within the sole discretion of the commission.
   D.   Stipulations: Parties may stipulate and agree in writing, or on the
record, to a continuance, to facts, or as to evidentiary guilt. The facts so
stipulated shall be considered as evidence in the proceeding.
   E.   Motions: Motions or objections to the sufficiency of written charges
must be filed prior to or at the beginning of the hearing before the
commission, unless the commission specifies otherwise.
   F.   Counsel: For purposes of conducting any hearing on charges filed
hereunder, the attorney for the commission shall be from the law firm
representing the Village. The Village, on behalf of the complainant, shall
retain independent counsel, other than the law firm representing the Village,
to prosecute the charges and the Village shall pay the fees of the independent
counsel. The commission shall appoint its counsel to act as hearing officer
during the hearing to facilitate receipt of the evidence and ruling on
objections. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 05-03, 2-7-2005; Ord. 2022-31,
10-17-2022)
2-3E-3: SUBPOENAS:
Either party may, at any time before the hearing, make application to the
commission, by filing with it a written request, for subpoenas for any
individual to appear at the hearing or have any individual produce books,
papers, records, accounts, or other documents as may be deemed by the
commission to be relevant to the hearing. On the filing of such application,
subpoenas will be issued for the named persons. Subpoenas may be served by any
person of the age of twenty-one (21) years or older designated by the party
requesting the subpoenas, provided they have no interest in the proceedings or
relationship to any of the parties. Application for subpoenas should include a
form of subpoena to be issued containing the names and addresses of the
individuals to be subpoenaed, and the identity of any documents which they are
to produce at the hearing. Subpoenas will not be issued for any person residing
outside of the state of Illinois. The party requesting a subpoena shall pay all
costs associated with service and issuance. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord.
2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3E-4: FILING:
All papers may be filed with the commission by mailing or personally delivering
the papers to the secretary of the commission, addressed to the West Dundee
Village Clerk, 102 South Second Street, West Dundee, IL 60118. For the purpose
of these rules and regulations, the filing date of any paper shall be the date
it is received in the commission's office if the paper was delivered personally
or by messenger, or, in the event a paper was mailed, the filing date shall be
the date which is postmarked on the envelope of such paper. All original papers
filed with the commission shall include four (4) copies. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-
1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3E-5: FORMS OF PAPER:
   A.   All papers filed in any proceeding shall be typewritten or printed and
shall be on one side of the paper only.
   B.   If typewritten, the lines shall be double spaced, except that long
quotations may be single spaced and indented.
   C.   All papers shall be not larger than eight and one-half inches by eleven
inches (81/2" x 11") with inside margins of not less than one inch (1").
   D.   The original of all papers filed shall be signed in ink by the party
filing the paper or by an officer, agent, or attorney thereof and copies
thereof provided the opposing party or his counsel.
   E.   If papers are filed by an attorney, his name and address shall appear
thereon. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3E-6: SUSPENSION:
   A.   The commission may suspend any member of the fire department or police
department against whom charges have been preferred, pending a hearing of the
charges by the commission but not to exceed thirty (30) days, without pay, at
any one time.
   B.   The chief of the fire department or police department shall have the
right to suspend any officer under his command for a period not to exceed five
(5) days (not to exceed 40 working hours), providing no charges on the same
offense have been filed and are pending before the commission, and he shall
notify the commission in writing within twenty-four (24) hours of the time of
such suspension. Any police officer or firefighter so suspended may appeal to
the commission for a review of the suspension within five (5) days after
receiving notice of such suspension by filing notice of such appeal in writing
with the secretary of the Board of fire and police commissioners. A hearing
shall be had upon such appeal, and due notice given to the chief of the
department who suspended such officer, and to the officer so suspended. The
burden of establishing that a suspension is unwarranted shall be upon the
individual bringing the appeal.
   C.   Upon such appeal, the commission may sustain the action of the chief of
the department, may reverse it with instructions that the officer so suspended
receive his pay for the period involved, may suspend the officer for a period
of not more than thirty (30) calendar days, demote the officer or discharge the
officer, depending on the evidence presented. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd.
Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3E-7: DISCHARGE, SUSPENSION OR DEMOTION AFTER HEARING:
   A.   Discharge from office, or suspension from service in the fire
department or police department shall be in compliance with sections 5/10-2.1-
1 through 5/10-2.1-30, inclusive, of the Act.
   B.   In addition to the commission's powers to discharge or suspend granted
by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-17, the commission may, in case an
officer is found guilty after the hearing provided in said section, demote said
officer or member one rank and/or remove said officer or member's name from the
promotional eligibility list.
   C.   The commission shall, within a reasonable time after the hearing is
completed, enter its findings on the records of the commission. (Ord. 97-25,
10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3E-8: DATE OF HEARING:
The time for the hearing of charges shall be set by the commission, within
thirty (30) days of the time of the filing of such charges. Continuances may be
granted from time to time upon motion of any party to the proceeding by order
of the commission. This time limitation is not applicable to hearings conducted
to review suspensions of five (5) days or less imposed by a chief of a
department on one of its members. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31,
10-17-2022)
2-3E-9: RULES; CONFLICT:
The time for the hearing of charges shall be set by the commission, within
thirty (30) days of the time of the filing of such charges. Continuances may be
granted from time to time upon motion of any party to the proceeding by order
of the commission. This time limitation is not applicable to hearings conducted
to review suspensions of five (5) days or less imposed by a chief of a
department on one of its members. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31,
10-17-2022)
2-3E-10: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Rules: All members of the fire department and police department shall
be subject to the regulations of such department, and the rules of the
commission, and a violation of such rules or regulations may be cause for the
filing of charges before the commission, a subsequent hearing and action by the
commission on such charges.
   B.   Law: Any violation of the laws of the Village or state or federal law,
by any member of the fire department or police department of the Village may be
cause for the filing of charges against said officer, except as herein
otherwise provided. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
2-3E-11: FINDING AND DECISION:
The finding and decision of the commission, following a hearing of charges,
shall be preserved by the secretary, and notice of said finding and decision
sent to the officer involved and the chief of the department for enforcement.
If the findings and decision are that an officer is guilty of charges
investigated, and removal or discharge is ordered, such order of removal or
discharge shall become effective forthwith pursuant to section
2-3E-7 of this article. (Ord. 97-25, 10-20-1997; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 10-17-2022)
CHAPTER 4
PENSION FUND BOARDS
ARTICLE A. POLICE PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-4A-1: Creation, Appointments, Terms
2-4A-2: Salary, Compensation
2-4A-3: Meetings
2-4A-4: Duties
2-4A-1: CREATION, APPOINTMENTS, TERMS:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created a board of trustees of the police
pension fund, consisting of five (5) members, the majority of whom shall be
residents of the village.
   B.   Appointments, Terms: Two (2) members of the board shall be appointed by
the president of the board of trustees. The third and fourth members of the
board shall be elected from the regular police force by the active members
thereof. The fifth member shall be elected by and from among the beneficiaries
of the fund. The terms of office of the members of the board of trustees of the
police pension fund shall be two (2) years and until their respective
successors shall be appointed or elected, as the case may be; provided further,
in the case of the initial appointments, one of the board members appointed by
the village president shall serve for one year beginning on the second Tuesday
in May in the year the village comes within the provisions hereof. The other
appointed member shall serve for two (2) years beginning on the same date. The
election of the additional members to the board shall be in accordance with the
provisions of the statutes of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
2-4A-2: SALARY, COMPENSATION:
Members of the board of trustees of the pension fund shall not receive, or have
any right to receive, any money or monies from the pension fund as salary for
services performed as members of such board. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
2-4A-3: MEETINGS:
The board of trustees of the police pension fund shall hold regular quarterly
meetings on the second Tuesdays of July, October, January and April annually,
and special meetings as called by the president. At the regular July meeting,
the board shall select from its members a president, vice president, secretary
and assistant secretary to serve for the period of one year and until their
respective successors are elected and qualified. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
2-4A-4: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the members of the board of trustees of the police
pension fund to control and manage, exclusively, the pension fund and all
monies donated, paid or assessed for the relief or pensioning of disabled,
superannuated and retired members of the police department, their widows, minor
children and dependent parents. All such monies shall be placed by the
treasurer of the village to the credit of the fund, subject to the order of the
board. It shall have all such powers and duties as are now, or may thereafter
be given to it by statute. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
ARTICLE B. FIREFIGHTER PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-4B-1: Creation; Composition
2-4B-2: Compensation
2-4B-3: Meetings
2-4B-4: Duties
2-4B-1: CREATION; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created a board of trustees of the firefighters' pension fund
as provided for in article 4 of 40 Illinois Compiled Statutes, and shall
consist of the village president, village clerk, village attorney, village
treasurer, fire chief, three (3) active firefighters and one retired
firefighter as provided by state statute. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
2-4B-2: COMPENSATION:
Members of the board of trustees of the firefighters' pension fund shall not
receive, or have any right to receive, any money from the pension fund as
compensation for service performed as a member of the board of trustees of the
pension fund. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
2-4B-3: MEETINGS:
The board of trustees of the firefighters' pension fund shall be organized and
shall hold meetings as provided by state statute. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
2-4B-4: DUTIES:
The board of trustees of the firefighters' pension fund shall: a) be solely
responsible for the management and control of the pension fund; b) keep records
of membership and of all meetings, determine creditable service, report tax
levy needs to the village board, approve all disbursements, make rules
necessary for the discharge of its duties and any other duty provided by state
statute. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 5
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-5-1: Creation And Composition
2-5-2: Membership And Appointment
2-5-3: Residency
2-5-4: Oath
2-5-5: Responsibilities Of Agency
2-5-6: Rules And Regulations
2-5-7: Annual Budget
2-5-8: Authorization Of Emergency Purchase
2-5-9: Absence Or Inability Of Coordinator
2-5-1: CREATION AND COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created the village of West Dundee emergency management agency
("WDEMA") to coordinate emergency management planning, preparedness, and
response with the intent to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or
damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other
hostile action, or from natural or manmade disaster, in accordance with the
Illinois emergency management act 1 . WDEMA shall be considered a separate
municipal responsibility, but shall fall under the guidance and fiscal planning
of the fire and inspections services department. (Ord. 94-07, 4-18-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
2-5-2: MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT:
   A.   The agency shall consist of a coordinator. The coordinator shall be
appointed by the village president subject to the advice and consent of the
board of trustees. The village manager shall provide a recommendation upon the
request of the village president and board of trustees.
   B.   The village president may suspend or discharge the coordinator at any
time pursuant to Illinois statutory authority.
   C.   The coordinator may also serve as a member of another village of West
Dundee department or commission.
   D.   From time to time the village president and board of trustees of the
village may add members to the agency. (Ord. 94-07, 4-18-1994)
2-5-3: RESIDENCY:
As an employee of the village of West Dundee with certain emergency response
requirements, the coordinator shall be domiciled within a five (5) mile radius
of the intersection of State Route 72 and State Route 31, West Dundee,
Illinois. (Ord. 94-07, 4-18-1994)
2-5-4: OATH:
The coordinator, before entering upon the duties for office, shall take the
oath of office prescribed by the village. (Ord. 94-07, 4-18-1994)
2-5-5: RESPONSIBILITIES OF AGENCY:
   A.   The WDEMA shall perform such functions within the village as shall be
prescribed in and by the state of Illinois emergency management plan and
program prepared by the governor of Illinois and such orders, rules and
regulations as may be promulgated by the governor.
   B.   In addition, the WDEMA shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required, availability of manpower permitting, pursuant to any
mutual aid agreement with any other municipalities or quasi-municipal entity.
   C.   Specifically, the agency shall be responsible for:
      1.   Coordination of development, revision, update, and evaluation of
village of West Dundee emergency operations plan.
      2.   Maintain liaison and cooperate with the emergency management agency
and other emergency agencies and organizations of other political subdivisions
of the state and the federal government.
      3.   Responsibility for the organization and administration of the agency
as required by village staff.
      4.   Coordination of training for all village of West Dundee department
heads and employees regarding their involvement in the extension of
responsibilities during a disaster or potential disaster situation.
      5.   Coordination of emergency operations as identified in the village of
West Dundee emergency operations plan.
      6.   Any and all other responsibilities and/or job functions as
designated by the village president or village manager.
      7.   Maintain accreditation by Kane County emergency management agency
through the Illinois emergency management agency, and ultimately the federal
emergency management agency. (Ord. 94-07, 4-18-1994)
2-5-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
All members of the agency are subject to the rules and regulations of the
agency as promulgated by the coordinator. All members are also subject to the
rules and regulations of the village of West Dundee policy manual for
employees. In the event the coordinator is the only member of the agency, there
shall be no need for specific agency rules and regulations. (Ord. 94-07, 4-18-
1994)
2-5-7: ANNUAL BUDGET:
   A.   The coordinator shall prepare and submit to the village manager an
estimate of the total cost and expense of providing for and maintaining the
department during the ensuing fiscal year, which estimate shall be submitted in
the form and at the time required by the village manager.
   B.   The annual WDEMA budget shall be included as a separate program within
the annual operating budget of the fire and inspection services budget.
   C.   The village of West Dundee treasurer shall receive and allocate to the
appropriate fund any reimbursement by the federal emergency management agency,
state of Illinois, county of Kane, or other entity to the village of West
Dundee. (Ord. 94-07, 4-18-1994)
2-5-8: AUTHORIZATION OF EMERGENCY PURCHASE:
In the event of disaster, the coordinator of the village of West Dundee
emergency management agency as defined within the village's emergency
operations plan, upon approval of the village president or successor as defined
in section
2-5-2 of this chapter, is authorized on behalf of the village to procure such
services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such
purposes, in view of the exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures
or formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or
obligations, as authorized by the act. (Ord. 94-07, 4-18-1994)
2-5-9: ABSENCE OR INABILITY OF COORDINATOR:
During the absence or inability of the coordinator to act, the chain of command
within the fire department shall be followed; or any such person designated in
writing by the village manager, shall perform the duties of the coordinator.
(Ord. 94-07, 4-18-1994)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: Rules Of Construction And Definitions
3-1-3: License Required
3-1-4: Applications
3-1-5: Investigation
3-1-6: Approval; Disapproval
3-1-7: Appeal
3-1-8: License Term; Expiration; Renewal
3-1-9: License Fee Schedule
3-1-10: Licenses Not Assignable; Unlawful Use
3-1-11: License To Be Posted
3-1-12: Building And Premises
3-1-13: Location
3-1-14: Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-15: Investigation And Inspections
3-1-16: Municipal Misrepresentation
3-1-17: Enforcement
3-1-18: Suspension, Revocation Of License
3-1-19: Business Vehicles
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
Because each commercial establishment located in the Village is a basic part of
and affects the physical and economic well-being of the Village necessitating
services from the Village in the form of building, health, fire, and police
inspections and other services, such commercial establishments shall in all
respects be in full compliance with the provisions contained in this chapter.
This chapter is designed to provide for the means whereby the Village may
render the necessary inspections and services to commercial establishments and
commercial activities in order to promote, protect, and safeguard the public
health, safety, and welfare of the residents and consumers of the Village and
to enable the effecting of an accurate record of commercial establishments
located and carrying on commercial activities or commerce within the Village.
(Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018)
3-1-2: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Square Feet: All measured areas expressed in square feet shall be to
the nearest integral square foot. If a fraction is one-half (1/2) square foot
or more, the integral square foot next above shall be taken. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-
12-2018)
   B.   Definitions: The words and terms set forth in this section, wherever
they occur in this chapter, shall be construed as herein defined:
   AMUSEMENT(S): Including, but not limited to, places of entertaining commonly
known as: amusement park, arcade, carnival, athletic competitions or events,
bowling alley, carnival, circus, dance hall, entertainment club, exhibition,
golf driving range, ice rink, kiddie park, miniature golf, nightclub, open air
concert, playground, private club, rental cart track, riding stable, roller
rink (including in-line), teen club, tumbling center, water park and motion
picture, dramatic, dance or musical theaters.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS: Includes the following activities of commerce or
commercial activity located in the Village:
    Food Establishment: Is a building or premises or a portion thereof the
principal use of which is for the sale or dispensing or distribution or serving
or storage of food, foodstuff, or drink for consumption on or off the premises
or in or out of the building.
    Retail Sales Establishment: Is a building or premises or portion thereof
the principal use of which is for the retail sale or distribution of
merchandise, goods or chattel not included with or related to the sale of
material goods or chattel or the provision of services of food establishments
or service establishments.
    Service Establishment: Is a building or premises or a portion thereof the
principal use of which is for the rendering of personal or material services to
consumers for profit, including but not limited to the wholesale distribution,
or storage of material goods or chattel, the sale or servicing or storage of
motor equipment, the washing or cleaning or dyeing or repair of fabrics of
wearing apparel on the premises, the storage or assembly or distribution or
servicing or repair of building materials or electrical equipment or mechanical
equipment, the storage or distribution of fuels or petroleum products, the
services of printing or photocopying or publishing or similar reproduction
services, the provision of facilities for a hotel or motor hotel or apartment
hotel or similar structure housing facilities for the transient or permanent
guests or persons, the provision of facilities for instruction or training or
participation in or presentation of the fine arts or athletic skills or
dexterity of physical skills or dexterity.
The term "commercial establishment" shall not include:
      1.   A "home occupation" as defined in this Code;
      2.   A governmental unit; and
      3.   A public utility or cable television company which is subject to
regulation by the Federal Communications Commission or the State Commerce
Commission and which operates in the Village pursuant to a franchise agreement
with the Village.
   FLOOR AREA: Is the sum total of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building and its accessory buildings measured in square feet from
the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the center line of party walls
separating two (2) buildings or business establishments on each of the
respective floors and includes the basement floor, cellar floor, elevator
shafts, and stair wells at each floor, floor space used for mechanical
equipment, whether open or enclosed, including such equipment as may be located
on the roof, penthouse, attic space, balconies, mezzanines, porches, and
verandas, floor area devoted to and occupied by accessory uses. In computing
such floor area, there shall not be included open area devoted to vehicular
parking or loading or storage of materials, roof area not occupied by
mechanical or similar equipment.
   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY: A building containing dwelling units for living
purposes or a single-family residence leased or rented for residential purposes
but does not include the leasing or renting of a room or rooms within a
dwelling unit or within a single family residence or a bed and breakfast
establishment as defined in section
3-4-1 of this title.
   RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals (i.e., breakfast, lunch and/or dinner) are
served. The service of meals includes, but is not limited to, sit down dining,
carryout service and drive-through service. For purposes of this definition, a
restaurant need not have dining room equipment, but need only serve food, hot
or cold, to the public. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018; amd. Ord. 2018-33, 12-3-
2018)
3-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct, engage in, or maintain,
operate, carry on, or manage any commercial establishment or activity either by
himself or itself, or through an agent, employee, or partner, without first
having obtained a license for such activity or commercial establishment.
   B.   A license is required for the maintenance, operation, or conduct of any
commercial establishment or activity, and any person, firm, or corporation
shall be subject to the requirement, if, by himself or itself, or through an
agent, employee, or partner, he or it is held forth as being engaged in the
activity or commercial establishment, or if he or it solicits patronage
therefor, actively or passively, or if he or it performs or attempts to perform
any part of such activity or commercial establishment in the Village. (Ord.
2018-25, 11-12-2018)
3-1-4: APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Applications for all licenses required by this chapter shall be made to
the Village Manager on a form prepared by the Village. Wherever in this chapter
it refers to the Village Manager, it shall include the designees of the Village
Manager.
   B.   If the applicant is an individual (sole proprietorship), the
application shall contain his name, date of birth, residential address, and
residential telephone number. If the applicant is a partnership or other
noncorporate business entity, the application shall contain the name, date of
birth, and residential address and residential telephone number of each
partner, principal, or member. If the applicant is a corporation, the
application shall contain the name, date of birth, and residential address of
each principal officer and the registered agent thereof.
   C.   Each application also shall contain:
      1.   A designation of the type or kind of license desired;
      2.   The location or proposed location of the commercial establishment or
activity;
      3.   The applicable fee to be paid;
      4.   The number of the certificate of registration required under the
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act 1 , Service Occupation Tax Act 2 , and/or Use Tax
Act 3 , if applicable; and
      5.   Such additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance
of Village officials in the evaluation of such application, including but not
limited to:
         a.   Proof of any insurance policy or bond if required.
         b.   Identity of management employees and their position with the
applicant.
         c.   Applicants' businesses in other communities.
         d.   Whether the applicant has ever had a previous license denied,
revoked, or suspended.
         e.   Whether the applicant has ever voluntarily withdrawn a license or
application for a license during or pending an investigation for the suspension
or revocation of that license.
         f.   Whether the applicant has ever been arrested or convicted of a
misdemeanor or felony.
         g.   Proof of corporate good standing.
         h.   Identity of suppliers or manufacturers' representatives.
   D.   Applications for a video gaming license as required by this section
shall be filed with the Village Manager and shall contain the following
additional information:
      1.   The name, address and age of the owner of the video gaming terminal
and the owner of the establishment where the video gaming terminal shall be
located.
      2.   Any prior convictions of the owner of the video gaming terminal and
the owner of the establishment where the video gaming terminal shall be
located.
      3.   The name and address of the establishment where the video gaming
terminal will be displayed and operated and the business conducted and a
description of the video gaming terminal to be operated under the license.
      4.   The location of the video gaming terminal as it is to be located in
the local establishment.
      5.   Evidence that a video gaming license has been issued by the Illinois
Gaming Board to the owner of the video gaming terminal and the owner of the
establishment where the video gaming terminal shall be located.
      6.   An annual fee for the license required for video gaming terminals
shall be established by section
3-1-9 of this chapter, and shall not be prorated or refundable. (Ord. 2018-25,
11-12-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3 3. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3-1-5: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   An investigation or inspection by any department or official of the
Village is required before the issuance of a license, and requires the approval
of such department or official regarding the property location or condition of
the premises in which the commercial establishment or activity for which a
license is applied is to be managed, conducted, operated, or carried on.
   B.   The designated official or department in a reasonable time after
receiving a copy of the application:
      1.   Shall make all necessary investigations and inspections, and the
results thereof shall be reported in writing to the Village Manager; and
      2.   Shall indicate on the application a recommendation for the approval
or disapproval thereof. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018)
3-1-6: APPROVAL; DISAPPROVAL:
   A.   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the Village
Manager determines that the applicant meets the standards set forth, including
but not limited to compliance with all applicable Village ordinances, State or
County laws or regulations, the Village Manager shall approve the application.
The Village Manager shall notify the applicant that the application has been
approved and shall issue a license. All licenses shall be subject to the
provisions of this Code which may be in force at the time of the issuance
thereof or which may subsequently be passed by the Village Board of Trustees.
   B.   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the Village
Manager determines that matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory,
the Village Manager shall disapprove the application, indicating the reasons
therefor. Thereupon, the Village Manager shall notify the applicant that the
application has not been approved and that no license will be issued and the
license fee paid shall be refunded. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018)
3-1-7: APPEAL:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Village Manager in regard
to the denial of an application for a business license, as provided in this
chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the Village President. Such appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Village Clerk within five (5) days after
notice of a denial of an application, a written statement under oath setting
forth specifically the grounds for appeal. The Village President shall
thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of
such hearing shall be given to the applicant or licensee or permittee in the
same manner as provided in section
3-1-17 of this chapter. The decision of the Village President on such appeal
shall be final.
   B.   The acceptance of the license, upon reversal by the Village President,
shall constitute a waiver of all claims against the Village, the Village
Manager, or any other officer or employee, arising out of the original refusal
to issue the license. The burden shall be upon the applicant to show wherein
the Village Manager has failed to meet the standards set forth in this section.
(Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018)
3-1-8: LICENSE TERM; EXPIRATION; RENEWAL:
   A.   All annual licenses shall commence on January 1 each year. No license
shall be granted for a period longer than one year. Except where otherwise
provided herein, every license shall expire on December 31 following the date
of issuance. Applications received for new licenses between December 1 and
December 31 of each year shall be issued licenses including for the ensuing
year.
   B.   The Village Manager shall endeavor to notify each annual licensee of
the expiration of time of the license held by the licensee at least twenty one
(21) days prior to such expiration date; provided, that a failure to make such
notification or the licensee's failure to receive it, shall not relieve the
licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license or renewal.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided herein, each license may be renewed upon
proper application and payment of the required fee. The requirements and
procedures for granting and issuing a license renewal shall be the same as the
requirements and procedures for granting a new license 1 . (Ord. 2018-25, 11-
12-2018)
 
Notes
  1 Per Ordinance 2021-05, renewal documentation for liquor, video gaming and
1 tobacco licenses are required to be submitted in their completed form by no
  later than April 12, 2021, with the exception of said payments, which will be
  due by no later than October 31, 2021.
3-1-9: LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   General Fee:
      1.   Business Registration Fee: All persons proposing to engage in
business within the Municipal limits of the Village shall apply for and pay a
business registration fee for each outlet, branch, location, or place of
business within the Municipal limits of the Village prior to engaging in
business.
      2.   Fee: There is imposed on each place of business located in the
Village an annual business registration fee per annum due and payable by
January 1 of each year, as follows:
 
Number Of Square Feet           Fee
1 - 1,000 square feet           $ 50.00 per year
1,001 - 5,000 square feet       75.00 per year
5,001 - 10,000 square feet      150.00 per year
Greater than 10,000 square feet 250.00 per year
 
Renewal of business registration shall be for a full twelve (12) month period
and shall not be prorated for business conducted for a portion of the year.
      3.   Residential Rental Property: There is imposed on each person who
conducts, manages, owns or operates residential rental property located in the
Village an annual business registration fee per building per annum due and
payable by January 1 of each year, as follows:
 
Number Of Rental Units                                       Fee
Single-family with 1 rental unit                             $ 50.00 per year
2 - 6 rental units                                           125.00 per year
More than 6 rental units, including apartments, condominiums 20.00 per unit
and townhomes under the same roof or ownership
 
Renewal of business registration shall be for a full twelve (12) month period
and shall not be prorated for business conducted for a portion of the year.
      4.   Exemption: Except for a home based business, no business shall be
exempt from the registration requirements pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Renewal:
      1.   Prior to the expiration of a business registration, the registrant
shall apply to renew the business registration. Each application shall be
accompanied by a renewal fee as outlined in subsection A2 of this section for
each place of business.
      2.   Prior to the expiration of a business registration for a residential
rental property the registrant shall apply to renew the business registration.
Each application shall be accompanied by a renewal fee for each building as
outlined in subsection A3 of this section.
   C.   Late Fee: There shall be imposed upon each delinquent registration fee,
a late fee in an amount equivalent to the annual registration fee as outlined
in subsection A of this section, in the event a registration fee is not paid
before commencing business; before conducting, managing, owning or operating a
residential rental property; or the annual renewal fee is not paid prior to
expiration.
   D.   Other Licensee and Permit Fees: The license or permit fee for the
following business, professions and occupations shall be subject to the license
and permit fees as follows and not the general fee:
 
TYPE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT               FEE
Mechanical amusement device             $135.00 per machine per year
Peddlers, solicitors, itinerant         $50.00 per day, $200.00 per week,
merchants. No license fee for a civic,  $500.00 per year
charity, school or service organization
Video gaming establishment 1            $50.00 per year
Video gaming terminal operator or       $1,000.00 per year per establishment
distributor                             plus $250.00 per year for each gaming
                                        device distributed within the Village
 
   (Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-02, 3-1-2021)
 
Notes
  1 As set forth in Ordinance 2021-05, all video gaming license fees set forth
1 in Section
  3-1-9, typically due May 1, shall be extended and shall be paid to the
  Village of West Dundee by October 31, 2021.
3-1-10: LICENSES NOT ASSIGNABLE; UNLAWFUL USE:
   A.   No license may be assigned, sold, loaned, transferred, used as
collateral, or otherwise encumbered. No person, firm, or corporation shall use
or display any license certificate, tag, badge, or sticker which has been
improperly acquired.
   B.   No person, firm, or corporation shall alter, deface, forge, or
counterfeit any license, certificate, plate, tag, badge, or sticker issued by
the Village. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018)
3-1-11: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
   A.   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed commercial
establishment or activity in the Village to keep his license displayed at all
times in a prominent place on the premises, machine, or vehicle used for such
commercial establishment or activity.
   B.   No person shall destroy, obliterate, take, remove, or carry away
without the consent of the owner any license, certificate, plate, or sticker
which has been discontinued or the licensed premises have been abandoned.
Nothing herein shall prevent the Village Manager or his or her duly-authorized
representative from removing any license, certificate, plate, or sticker from
the possession of a former licensee, the premises, any vehicle, or any machine
when said license has been revoked under the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   In addition to the posting of licenses, unattended service- oriented
businesses, such as coin-operated laundries and car washes, are required to
display a sign that properly informs their customers of the appropriate
telephone number to contact in case of emergency situations. The sign
displaying the telephone number shall be conspicuous, unobstructed, permanent
in nature, and contained in a heavy plastic-type framing device securely
mounted to the wall. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018)
3-1-12: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for any commercial establishment or activity if the
premises and building to be used do not fully comply with all applicable
ordinances and regulations of the Village and the State. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-
2018)
3-1-13: LOCATION:
   A.   No license for the operation of a commercial establishment or activity
in the Village shall be construed to permit its operation in more than one
location in the Village. A separate license shall be required for each
location. For the purpose of this chapter, the existence of a single location
shall be evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or
accessory uses shall be:
      1.   Connected or shall be located on the same lot or zoning lot;
      2.   Operated and managed by the same person or owner; and
      3.   An establishment with the same classification. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-
2018)
3-1-14: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Nuisances: No commercial establishment, or activity whether or not
licensed, shall be so conducted or operated as to constitute a nuisance in
fact; and no building, vehicle, structure, yard, lot, premises, or part thereof
shall be used, kept, maintained, or operated in connection with any business so
as to occasion any nuisance, or otherwise threaten the public health, safety,
morals, or welfare. Any charge of conducting or operating a nuisance may be
made under this chapter or under the provisions of any other Village ordinance.
   B.   Buildings And Structures: No building or structure, utilized,
constructed, or maintained in connection with any commercial establishment or
activity shall evidence an unsanitary, unsafe, or any other dangerous or
unlawful condition.
   C.   Hours For Restaurants, Shows, Or Amusements: No restaurant, show or
amusement shall be open to the public between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Any restaurant, show or amusement that is
open between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code, plus the Village's costs of prosecution. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018)
3-1-15: INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Whenever an investigation or a hearing pursuant to this chapter by any
department or official of the Village requires additional information from the
licensee, the licensee shall be given written notice by the Village of what
additional information from the licensee is required, and the licensee shall
fully and completely comply with that request.
   B.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed commercial establishment or activity are provided for
or required by this chapter, or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance
with the provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the Village or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in
charge of the premises to admit thereto for the purpose of making the
inspection any officer or employee of the Village who is duly authorized to
make such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is
requested.
   C.   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter or any
ordinance or regulations, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty
of the licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly-
authorized officer or employee of the Village requesting the same sufficient
samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
(Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018)
3-1-16: MUNICIPAL MISREPRESENTATION:
It shall be unlawful for any licensed business in the Village subject to the
Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax 1  or Municipal Service Occupation Tax 2
to represent or advertise that its building or premises is located in a
municipality other than the Village. It is not a violation of this section if
the name of another municipality is a part of the name of the licensed
business. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3-1-17: ENFORCEMENT:
The Village Manager shall take all necessary and appropriate action to compel
compliance with the regulatory provisions of this chapter. All Municipal
employees duly authorized and acting as license inspectors shall be
conservators of the peace with police powers for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter and other Village ordinances relating to the
licensing of commercial establishments and activities and their regulations.
(Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018)
3-1-18: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Suspension Of Business Operations:
      1.   When the conduct or operation of any commercial establishment or
activity, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall constitute a nuisance in fact
and a clear and present danger to the public health, safety, or general
welfare, the Village Manager shall be authorized to summarily order the
cessation of business and the closing of the premises for a period not to
exceed ten (10) days.
      2.   Unless: a) waived by the affected business; or b) the nuisance is
substantially abated in the opinion of the Village Manager and the business is
allowed to resume and reopen, within eight (8) days after a license or permit
is suspended, the Village President shall call a hearing as provided in
subsection D of this section for the purpose of determining whether or not the
license or permit should be revoked or further suspended.
   B.   Revocation Of License: Licenses issued by the Village may be suspended
for up to thirty (30) days or revoked in addition to any fine imposed by the
Village Manager after notice and hearing as provided in subsection D of this
section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the license;
      2.   Failure by the applicant to comply with any provision of this Code
or any Statutes of the State relating to the business, occupation, or activity
of the license;
      3.   Conviction of the applicant of any felony or of a misdemeanor where
such conviction indicates their inability to operate a safe, honest, and
legitimate business operation within the Village;
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine, penalty,
charge or debt owed to the Village;
      5.   Any deceptive trade practices as defined by State or Federal law or
regulation and shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding
consumer protection and deceptive trade practices;
      6.   Compliance with all Village Zoning, Building, Fire and Health Codes,
and ordinances, as well as all other applicable Village codes, ordinances,
rules, and regulations and the premises shall be maintained in good repair,
free of litter and debris and kept in a safe condition for employees,
customers, and other persons present therein or thereon;
      7.   Any other violation of any Village ordinance, resolution, or
regulation; or
      8.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference with
a duly authorized Village officer or employee while in the reasonable
performance of his duties in making such inspections.
   C.   Prosecution And Other Penalties: Such revocation, if ordered, shall not
preclude prosecution and imposition of any other penalties provided for the
violation of other applicable provisions of this chapter or other ordinances of
the Village. No person whose license has been revoked shall be eligible for a
new license during the period for which the original license was originally
issued.
   D.   Hearing Procedures:
      1.   Notice:
         a.   Notice of a hearing shall set forth specifically the grounds of
the complaint and the time and place of the hearing.
         b.   Such notice shall be served by certified mail (return receipt
requested) to the licensee at his last known residence or business address, at
least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing or personally served
on the licensee at least three (3) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
         c.   If the licensee shall request a continuance in the date of the
hearing, any suspension in effect shall be continued until the continued
hearing date.
         d.   All pleadings, motions, notices, and orders shall be filed with
the Village Manager.
      2.   Procedural Rules:
         a.   At the hearing, the licensee shall be permitted counsel and shall
have the right to respond, present evidence, and cross- examine witnesses.
         b.   All proceedings shall be stenographically or electronically
recorded.
         c.   Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be
excluded. The rules of evidence as applied in civil cases in the Circuit Courts
of the State shall not apply.
         d.   The standard for proof for hearings shall be by the preponderance
of the evidence.
         e.   The Village Manager shall preside and render the decision within
a reasonable time after the conclusion of the hearing, but not later than
twenty one (21) days after such conclusion. The decision shall be in writing
and shall summarize the evidence and state the reasons for the decision.
      3.   Hearing Costs:
         a.   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked, or a business
that operates without a license, shall pay to the Village the costs of the
hearing before the Village Manager. The Village Manager shall determine the
costs incurred by the Village for said hearing, including, but not limited to,
court reporter fees, the costs of transcripts or records, attorneys' fees, the
cost of preparing the mailing notices and orders, and all other miscellaneous
expenses incurred by the Village or such lesser sum as the Village Manager may
allow.
         b.   The licensee shall pay said costs to the Village within thirty
(30) days of notification of the costs by the Village Manager. Failure to pay
said costs within thirty (30) days of notification is a violation of this
section and may be cause for license suspension or revocation, or the levy of a
fine. (Ord. 2018-25, 11-12-2018)
3-1-19: BUSINESS VEHICLES:
Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis, in whole or in part, for a
license fee, the Village Manager shall furnish the licensee with a tag or
sticker for each vehicle covered by the license, and such tag or sticker shall
be posted or affixed in a conspicuous place on each such vehicle. (Ord. 2018-
25, 11-12-2018)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required For Retail Sale Of Liquor
3-2-3: Local Liquor Control Commission
3-2-4: Applications
3-2-5: Review Of Applications
3-2-6: Issuance Of Licenses
3-2-7: Restrictions On Licenses
3-2-8: License Classifications
3-2-9: License Fees And Number
3-2-10: Conditions Of License
3-2-11: BASSET Certification
3-2-12: Record Of Licenses
3-2-13: Nonuse Of License
3-2-14: Hearings; Appeals
3-2-15: License Prohibitions
3-2-16: Violations; Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
   ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and
capable of being consumed as beverage by a human being.
   APPLICANT: The person or persons filing an application for an alcoholic
liquor license, and in the case of a partnership or corporation or other
business entity, it includes all of the partners, officers and/or directors of
the business entity.
   BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   BOWLING ALLEY: Every establishment or building, or part of an establishment
or building, as the case may be, wherein the game of bowling, played with
composition balls and ten (10) wooden pins, is played.
   CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building, of such extent and character as may be
suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation
of its members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen
and dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of
servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for
its members and their guests; provided, that such club files with the village
president of the board of trustees, at the time of its application for a
license under this chapter, two (2) copies of a list of the names and addresses
of its members; and provided further, that its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen
by the members.
   HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five
(25) or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings,
structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity.
   LICENSEE: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or club holding an
alcoholic liquor license under the provisions of this chapter.
   MICROBREWERY: Any public place or establishment that engages in the
production, manufacturing, or brewing of beer on the premises by means of
adequate and sanitary equipment designed and maintained to facilitate the
brewing process and dispenses that beer produced on the premises for
consumption on the premises and packaged for retail sale.
   MOTION PICTURE THEATER: Any public place, except any business as defined in
section
3-10-1 of this title, that is kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public to be a place where the exhibition of motion pictures is offered
to guests of all ages on a fixed schedule as advertised in print or electronic
media and where food items are available from a fixed concession stand.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guest.
   RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL: Sell at retail and sale at retail refer to and mean sales
for use or consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   VILLAGE: The village of West Dundee, Kane County, Illinois.
   WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits", as herein defined.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2016-30, 9-26-2016)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR RETAIL SALE OF LIQUOR:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or offer for
sale at retail in the village any alcoholic liquor without having first
obtained an alcoholic liquor license as herein provided. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
3-2-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION:
The village president is hereby designated as the local liquor control
commissioner and shall be charged with the administration and empowered
pursuant to the liquor control act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes, as
amended, and of such ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as
may be passed from time to time by the board of trustees.
   A.   The village president, as local liquor control commissioner, shall be
the chief administrative officer of the local liquor control commission, which
shall consist of three (3) members, including the village president and two (2)
members of the board of trustees, who shall be appointed by the village
president on an annual basis at the meeting of the local liquor control
commission on the third Monday in April, said appointments to become effective
on May 1 immediately following the appointments.
   B.   The local liquor control commission shall have the authority to grant,
suspend and/or revoke alcoholic liquor licenses in accordance with 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-4, village ordinances and resolutions, and any rules and
regulations established by and for said commission.
   C.   All official actions of any decisions by the local liquor control
commission shall require a simple majority vote of those members present
constituting a quorum. A quorum shall require the presence of not less than two
(2) members of said commission.
   D.   In the absence of the village president, one of the appointed members
of the local liquor control commission shall be designated acting local liquor
control commissioner and shall obtain the responsibilities of such office.
   E.   The local liquor control commission shall meet from time to time as may
be necessary to carry forth its statutory duties, including, but not limited
to, an annual meeting to review applications on the third Monday in April of
each calendar year.
   F.   The local liquor control commission shall have the right to examine, or
cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a
renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension
has been served as provided by statute, and to examine the books and records of
any such applicant or licensee, to hear testimony and take proofs for its
information in the performance of its duties, and for such purpose to issue
subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state. For the purpose of
obtaining any of the information desired by the local liquor control commission
under this section, said commission may authorize its agent to act on its
behalf.
   G.   The village president and board of trustees are authorized pursuant to
235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-3, to fix and pay compensation to the local
liquor control commissioner and members of the local liquor control commission
as may be deemed necessary for the proper performance of the duties vested in
them. The amount of compensation payable per meeting of the local liquor
control commission per member in attendance shall be forty five dollars
($45.00). (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
3-2-4: APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Applications for alcoholic liquor licenses shall be made to the local
liquor control commission, which shall have authority to grant, suspend and/or
revoke all such licenses. Applications shall be available from the village
clerk or deputy village clerk during regular business hours. Such applications
shall be made in writing, and shall be signed by the applicant, if an
individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a club or corporation,
verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following information and
statements:
      1.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and, if a majority in interest in the
stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and
address of such person.
      2.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
      3.   The citizenship of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation the objects for which it was formed.
      4.   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
      5.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
      6.   A statement whether the applicant has made similar application for a
similar alcoholic liquor license on premises other than those described in this
application and the disposition of such application.
      7.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license, by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this State or provisions of this Code.
      8.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the Federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
      9.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the State of Illinois or of the United States, or any provision of this Code in
the conduct of the place of business.
      10.   The name and address of the manager of the premises, if the
premises are managed by a person other than the applicant.
      11.   In the case of a corporation whose manager of the licensed premises
is not a resident of the Village, the name and address of a designated agent
for the corporation who is a resident of the Village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   B.   All applications for alcoholic liquor licenses shall be accompanied
with the appropriate fee as designated herein.
      1.   The licensee shall faithfully observe and conform to all State laws
and all provisions of this chapter and any and all hereafter passed during the
period of said license, May 1 through April 30; and
      2.   In the event of a violation of any of the terms and conditions of
this chapter and any amendments thereto, or State law, which results in the
suspension and/or revocation of an alcoholic liquor license issued herein, the
licensee shall pay any and all fines levied by the Local Liquor Control
Commission and shall pay reasonable attorney fees to the Village Attorney for
the prosecution of said violation. (Ord. 2017-14, 5-22-2017)
   C.   Applications for new and renewal alcoholic liquor licenses shall be
considered in the same order in which they are received by the Village Manager;
however, no such application shall be considered filed and received until
accompanied by the appropriate fee and surety bond, as set forth in section
 3-2-9 of this chapter and subsection B of this section.
   D.   Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof, provided
that he is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such
renewal license is sought are suitable for the purposes, that he has met all of
the application requirements herein, and provided further that the renewal
privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested right which
shall in any case prevent the Village President and Board of Trustees from
decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within the Village. This renewal
privilege shall only apply to the license classification granted for the
preceding license term. A renewal applicant who applies for a different license
classification shall be considered a new applicant with respect to that
different classification.
   E.   All applicants, both renewal and new, for alcoholic liquor licenses for
the full term of May 1 through April 30 shall file their application and
supporting materials between March 1 and April 1, both dates inclusive,
immediately preceding the full license term. Any applications which are filed
after April 1 will not be considered at the annual meeting of the Local Liquor
Control Commission on the third Monday in April.
   F.   The Local Liquor Control Commission may require any applicant for a new
or renewal alcoholic liquor license to be fingerprinted, pursuant to the
Illinois Liquor Control Commission rules and regulations. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
3-2-5: REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS:
   A.   All new and renewal alcoholic liquor license applications which have
been filed at the Village Hall with the Village Clerk or Deputy Village Clerk
between March 1 and April 1, both dates inclusive, and received by the Village
Manager as provided herein will be considered at the next annual meeting of the
Local Liquor Control Commission on the third Monday in April.
   B.   The Village Manager shall review each application which is filed at the
Village Hall with the Village Clerk or Deputy Village Clerk and shall determine
when an application is received by reviewing whether each and every one of the
questions thereon has been answered, the signatures of the applicant have been
sworn or notarized, the appropriate fee has been paid by cashier's or certified
check, and whether the appropriate surety bond has been posted. The review by
the village manager shall be within five (5) working days after all of the
above has been filed. The village manager shall thereafter notify each
applicant in writing as to when his or her application has been received and
when it will be reviewed by the local liquor control commission, or notify the
applicant as to the additional material or materials which must be filed before
the application can be considered received. Prior to the annual meeting of the
local liquor control commission on the third Monday in April, the village
manager shall prepare a written list showing the order of receipt for both
renewal and new applications.
   C.   The local liquor control commission shall review all alcoholic liquor
license applications in the following order:
      1.   Renewal applications will first be considered in the order received
by the village manager as set forth in subsection B of this section.
      2.   New applications will next be considered in the order received by
the village manager as set forth in subsection B of this section.
   D.   The local liquor control commission shall consider the following
criteria in addition to the sworn application when reviewing an applicant for
the renewal of an alcoholic liquor license:
      1.   Whether the applicant has violated or continues to violate any of
the laws of the state of Illinois or ordinances of the village of West Dundee
regarding the sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor during the preceding
license term.
      2.   Whether the applicant has violated or continues to violate any of
the laws of the state of Illinois or ordinances of the village of West Dundee
during the preceding license term.
      3.   Whether the applicant owes any outstanding fees, fines and/or monies
to the village of West Dundee.
      4.   Whether the applicant is qualified to receive an alcoholic liquor
license pursuant to 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes, as amended.
      5.   Whether any alcoholic liquor license is presently available to the
renewal applicant in the event that the village of West Dundee has reduced the
total number of licenses to be issued.
      6.   Whether the public good, convenience, health, safety and morals will
be furthered by the granting of an alcoholic liquor license to the applicant.
   E.   The local liquor control commission shall consider the following
criteria in addition to the sworn application when reviewing an applicant for a
new alcoholic liquor license:
      1.   Whether the applicant has violated or continues to violate any of
the laws of the state of Illinois or ordinances of the village of West Dundee
regarding the sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor during the preceding
license term.
      2.   Whether the applicant has violated or continues to violate any of
the laws of the state of Illinois or ordinances of the village of West Dundee
during the preceding license term.
      3.   Whether the applicant owes any outstanding fees, fines and/or monies
to the village of West Dundee.
      4.   Whether the applicant is qualified to receive an alcoholic liquor
license pursuant to the liquor control act of 1934 1  as amended.
      5.   Whether any alcoholic liquor licenses are presently available for
new applicants after the issuance of renewal licenses or a reduction in the
total number of licenses to be issued.
      6.   Whether the public good, convenience, health, safety and morals will
be furthered by the granting of an alcoholic liquor license to the applicant.
      7.   Whether any additional alcoholic liquor licenses are available to
new applicants pursuant to a valid and binding annexation agreement between the
village of West Dundee and another party or parties as authorized by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-15.1-1 and 11-15.1-2.
   F.   Applications for new alcoholic liquor licenses may also be filed during
the license term for the remainder of the license term. Said applications shall
be filed as set forth in subsection B of this section. The full amount of the
annual license fee must accompany such an application. The application review
and issuance shall occur pursuant to the criteria and procedure set forth
herein. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS.
3-2-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
The procedure to be followed by the local liquor control commission at the
annual meeting on the third Monday in April for issuance of alcoholic liquor
licenses shall be as follows:
   A.   The local liquor control commission shall first grant or deny an
alcoholic liquor license to each renewal applicant pursuant to the procedure
and criteria set forth in section
3-2-5 of this chapter.
   B.   When the local liquor control commission has granted or denied each
applicant for a renewal license, they shall determine whether any alcoholic
liquor licenses are available for new applicants.
   C.   In the event that no such licenses are available, the local liquor
control commission shall so indicate by motion.
   D.   In the event that a license or licenses remain available, the local
liquor control commission shall consider the new applications in the order
received by the village manager.
   E.   If the total number of available licenses is equal to the total number
of new applicants, the local liquor control commission shall grant or deny an
alcoholic liquor license to each new applicant pursuant to the procedure and
criteria set forth in section
3-2-5 of this chapter and subsection D of this section.
   F.   If the total number of new applicants exceeds the total number of
available licenses, the local liquor control commission shall review all new
applications pursuant to the procedure set forth in section
3-2-5 of this chapter prior to the granting or denying of any new licenses.
Thereafter, the local liquor control commission shall grant or deny an
alcoholic liquor license to each new applicant in the same order in which said
applicants were reviewed, pursuant to the procedure and criteria set forth in
section
3-2-5 of this chapter and subsection D of this section.
   G.   All renewal and/or new licenses granted by the local liquor control
commission shall not be issued until the licensee complies with the insurance
provisions set forth in subsection
 3-2-10G of this chapter. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
3-2-7: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
No alcoholic liquor license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   B.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law if the commission determines, after investigation, that such person has not
been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   F.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   G.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   H.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the political
subdivision, unless residency is required by local ordinance.
   I.   A corporation if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
political subdivision, and a corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois,
or unless it is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the "business
corporation act of 1983" to transact business in Illinois.
   J.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the effective date hereof, or shall have forfeited his bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   K.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   L.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local liquor
control commissions, any mayor, alderman or member of a city council or
commission, any president of the village board of trustees, any member of the
village board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall be interested directly in the manufacturer, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises which are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is
approved by the state liquor control commission.
   M.   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor dealer's license.
   N.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   O.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(10) of section 28-1 of, or as prescribed
by section 28-3 of the "criminal code of 1961", approved July 28, 1961, as
heretofore or hereafter amended, or as prescribed by a statute replaced by any
of the aforesaid statutory provisions.
   P.   A person to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
federal government for the current tax period.
   Q.   A copartnership to which a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government for the current tax period, or if any of the partners
have been issued a federal gaming device stamp or federal wagering stamp by the
federal government for the current tax period.
   R.   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than twenty percent (20%) of the stock
of such corporation has been issued a federal wagering stamp for the current
tax period.
   S.   Any premises for which a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
federal government for the current tax period.
   T.   Any premises or establishment allowing the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor within two hundred feet (200') of any church, school, either
public or private other than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home
for the aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or
any other military or naval station. This prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food
shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business carried on. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 91-02, 3-18-1991)
3-2-8: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS:
All establishments granted class AAA, AA, A, B, D, or F alcoholic liquor
licenses as set forth herein shall be permitted extended hours and remain open
until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on January 1, New Year's Day, of each year
licensed thereunder.
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor in the village of West Dundee, Illinois, shall pay an annual license fee
by cashier's or certified check according to the following classification of
alcoholic liquor licenses.
   A.   Class AAA License:
      1.   Regulations: Licenses for establishments dispensing alcoholic
liquors for consumption on the premises, in taverns, at retail, and having one
(1) or more service bars.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class AAA licensed premises shall not be open to the
public on Mondays between the hours of twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight and six
o’clock (6:00) A.M., Tuesdays through Fridays between the hours of one o’clock
(1:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M., Saturdays between the hours of two
o’clock (2:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M., and on Sundays between the
hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.
   B.   Class AA License:
      1.   Regulations: Licenses for establishments dispensing alcoholic
liquors for consumption on the premises, in an entertainment venue, at retail,
and having one or more service bars.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class AA licensed premises shall not be open to the
public Tuesdays through Sundays between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and on Mondays between the hours of one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      3.   Three O'Clock Closing Hours: The closing hours under such Class AA
license shall permit the establishment to be open until three o'clock (3:00)
A.M. no more than six (6) nights per license year. The licensee shall have the
obligation of notifying, in writing, the Local Liquor Control Commission and
the Village Board thirty (30) days prior to the use of any of the six (6)
permitted three o'clock (3:00) A.M. license privileges.
   C.   Class A License:
      1.   Regulations: Licenses for establishments dispensing alcoholic
liquors for consumption on the premises, whether served with full service meals
in restaurants, taverns, hotels, motels, inns or eating establishments, at
retail, and having one (1) or more service bars.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class A licensed premises shall not be open to the
public on Mondays between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., Tuesdays through Fridays between the hours of one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Saturdays between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., and on Sundays between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
   D.   Class A1 Liquor License:
      1.   Regulations: Licenses for establishments for dispensing alcoholic
liquors for consumption on premises: served with full-service meals at
restaurants, taverns, hotels, motels, and eating establishments, at retail, and
having one or more service bars.
      The intention of this classification is to facilitate liquor privileges
in conjunction with early morning breakfast and mid-day lunch service, with no
liquor privileges during the evening hours.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class A1 licensed premises shall not be permitted to
present alcohol for consumption between the hours of 9:00 pm and 6:00 am.
   E.   Class B License:
      1.   Regulations: Licenses for establishments dispensing beer and wine
only for consumption on the premises, served with meals in restaurants,
taverns, hotels, motels, inns or eating establishments, at retail, having one
or more service bars.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class B licensed premises shall not be open to the
public Mondays through Saturdays between the hours of twelve o’clock (12:00)
midnight and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and on Sundays between the hours of one
o’clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.
   F.   Class C License:
      1.   Regulations: Licenses for establishments dispensing alcoholic
liquors for consumption off the premises and in package form only.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class C licensed premises shall not be open to the
public Mondays through Saturdays between the hours of twelve o’clock (12:00)
midnight and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and on Sundays between the hours of twelve
o’clock (12:00) midnight and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.
      3.   Age Requirement:
         a.   Employee Age: All employees selling, delivering, checking out or
receiving payment for packaged alcoholic liquors in establishments holding
Class C or Class CCC licenses shall be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
         b.   Grocery Store Age Requirement Exception: An employee “scanning”
the packaged alcoholic liquor is the only employee required to be twenty one
(21) years of age and is responsible for verifying the customer is twenty one
(21) years of age.
      4.   More Than One Business: The requirements as set forth in this
subsection E4 shall apply to Class C licenses where more than one business is
maintained on the same premises.
         a.   Liquor Separate: All liquor must be physically separate from the
other types of business on the premises.
         b.   Beer And Wine Displays:
            (1)   Beer and wine displays are prohibited adjacent to cash
registers or the front doors of the premises.
            (2)   Beer and wine displays shall be prohibited in any pharmacy
section and toy and/or children’s aisle of the premises.
   G.   Class CC License:
      1.   Regulations: Licenses for establishments dispensing alcoholic
liquors for consumption off the premises and in package form only, and
dispensing alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises, served with meals
in restaurants, hotel/motels, eating establishments, or retail establishments,
having one (1) service bar only.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class CC licensed premises shall not be open to the
public Monday through Saturday between the hours of twelve o’clock (12:00)
midnight and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and on Sunday between the hours of twelve
o’clock (12:00) midnight and eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M.
      3.   Special Events:
         a.   Number Of Events: This license classification permits the use of
the allowance of alcoholic liquor privileges in conjunction with Village
approved special events not to exceed more than eighteen (18) events within any
one (1) liquor license year. One (1) event consists of one (1) day.
         b.   Special Event Application Form: For each event, either located
within the establishment’s business address or outside the business address
must be filed at least twenty one (21) business days prior to the date of the
event. The Village Manager is authorized to approve such events subject to the
completed application and notification to the Local Liquor Control Commission.
         c.   Supervision; Designated Area: The event shall be attended and
supervised by a full time employee and take place only in a designated area on
the licensed premises as approved by the Village Manager and designated in the
permit.
   H.   Class CCC License:
      1.   Regulations: For establishments dispensing beer and wine only for
consumption off the premises and in package form only.
      2.   Conditions: This license may be issued to retail food stores,
department stores, and retail food stores also selling gasoline upon the
following conditions, and provided that all the following said conditions are
met at all times during the term of said license:
         a.   Only beer and wine, as defined in the Illinois Liquor Control
Act, may be sold.
         b.   The minimum inventory level for all store products shall be
thirty five thousand dollars ($35,000.00) in retail value.
         c.   Beer and wine sales shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of
all retail sales in such establishment, during any consecutive twelve (12)
month period.
         d.   No displays of beer and wine shall be located within five feet
(5') of the store’s entrance.
         e.   All beer shall only be sold from, or displayed in, electrical
refrigeration coolers, or other cabinets or displays which can be secured.
         f.   Employees selling, delivering, checking out or receiving payment
for packaged alcoholic liquors must be twenty one (21) years of age or older.
         g.   No video or other electronic games shall be allowed on the
premises of such establishment.
         h.   In addition, retail food stores selling gasoline shall meet the
following conditions:
            (1)   No temporary point of sale, beer or wine advertising shall be
located on gasoline islands and no lighted or unlighted permanent signage
advertising beer or wine shall be located on buildings, in windows, or within
five feet (5') of any window. If a freestanding sign is permitted on the
licensed premises pursuant to a Village ordinance, only generic advertising
using the words “beer” or “wine”, and descriptive terms relating thereto
(exclusive of brand and price advertising) shall be permitted.
            (2)   All beer and wine shall be sold in the original
manufacturer’s packaging.
      3.   Closing Hours: Class CCC licensed premises shall not sell alcoholic
beverages Mondays through Saturdays between the hours of twelve o’clock (12:00)
midnight and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and on Sundays between the hours of twelve
o’clock (12:00) midnight and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.
   I.   Class D License:
      1.   Regulations: Licenses for establishments identified as a club,
organized not for profit, dispensing alcoholic liquors for consumption on the
premises.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class D licensed premises shall not be open to the
public Mondays through Saturdays between the hours of twelve o’clock (12:00)
midnight and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and on Sundays between the hours of two
o’clock (2:00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.
   J.   Class E License:
      1.   Regulations: Licenses for establishments dispensing alcoholic
liquors for consumption on premises in an outdoor area in conjunction with food
service, and ClassA, B, D or F alcoholic liquor licenses.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class E licensed premises shall not be open to the
public Mondays through Sundays between the hours of ten thirty o’clock (10:30)
P.M. and ten thirty o’clock (10:30) A.M.
         a.   Class E licensed premises located within the confines of the
property commonly known as Spring Hill Mall shall be permitted extended hours
for alcoholic sales on Friday and Saturday nights, and therefore shall not be
open to the public Mondays through Fridays between the hours of ten thirty
o’clock (10:30) P.M. and ten thirty o’clock (10:30) A.M. and Saturdays through
Sundays between the hours of twelve o’clock (12:00) A.M. and ten thirty o’clock
(10:30) A.M. Expanded outdoor dining area hours shall correspond with
continuation of meal service until at least eleven thirty o’clock (11:30) P.M.
on Fridays and Saturdays.
      3.   Screening: The outdoor area shall be screened and enclosed by either
landscaping or fencing.
      4.   Entertainment Or Sound Amplification: Entertainment or sound
amplification in outdoor areas subject to the Class E license shall be limited
so as not to be heard more than seventy five feet (75') from the outdoor dining
area.
      5.   Special Use: A special use subject to the provisions of
title 10, chapter 5 , “Business Districts”, of this Code shall be required for
the issuance of a Class E license.
   K.   Class F License:
      1.   Regulations: Licenses for establishments dispensing alcoholic
liquors for consumption on the premises and engaged in the actual brewing and
production of beer on the premises and for the dispensing of beer that has been
brewed and produced on site for consumption off the premises and in packaged
form only. This license shall be issued only to establishments with a
microbrewery having meal service, and a restaurant capacity of not less than
one hundred (100) seats.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class F licensed premises shall not be open to the
public Mondays through Thursdays between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M.
and six o’clock (6:00) A.M., on Fridays and Saturdays between the hours of two
o’clock (2:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M., and on Sundays between the
hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.
   L.   Class G License:
      1.   Regulations: A class G license authorizes the retail sale of
alcoholic beverages on the premises owned (or controlled) and operated by a
park district organized under the provisions of the park district code, 70
Illinois Compiled Statutes 1205/1-1 et seq., for consumption on the premises.
Each class G license shall describe the premises approved (1 license per
location) for retail sale, which may include more than one structure at a given
location and may provide for the outside sale of alcoholic beverages. Any class
G license issued shall be limited to uses in existence at the effective date
hereof.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class G licensed premises shall not be open to the
public daily between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:
00) A.M.
   M.   Class H License:
      1.   Regulations: A class H license shall be required for a restaurant,
whether or not it holds a current liquor license, to permit patrons to bring,
possess and consume wine, beer or malt beverage on the premises. No other
alcoholic liquor shall be permitted under a class H corkage license. It shall
be unlawful for any commercial establishment, except for those herein defined
as a “restaurant”, to permit patrons to bring, possess and consume wine, beer
or malt beverage on the premises. The following regulations further apply to
any class H license holder:
         a.   No more than seven hundred fifty milliliters (750 ml) of wine or
three (3) twelve ounce (12 oz.) beer or malt beverages per patron over the age
of twenty one (21) shall be permitted to be uncorked.
         b.   Only patrons seated at tables or booths shall be permitted to
consume wine, beer or malt beverage that has been provided by the patron.
         c.   Wine, beer or malt beverage may be consumed only by individuals
who order and are served a meal by the licensee.
         d.   Every container of wine, beer or malt beverage brought onto the
premises by a patron must be opened by the restaurant personnel, and it shall
be unlawful for any patron to leave the premises with a partially consumed
container of wine, beer or malt beverage unless it is securely sealed by
restaurant personnel prior to removal from the premises and placed in a
transparent onetime use tamperproof bag, as required by state law.
         e.   Possession and consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person
under the age of twenty one (21) is prohibited.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class H licensed premises shall not be permitted to
present alcohol for consumption except between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:
00) A.M. and eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. If a class H licensed establishment
possesses an additional liquor license classification, those permitted hours of
operations shall prevail.
   N.   Class J License:
      1.   Regulations: A class J license shall be required for a merchant,
whether or not it holds a current liquor license, to permit for the sale of
beer and wine only in package form for consumption off premises, specifically
in conjunction with an authorized special or public event approved by the
village of West Dundee. No other alcoholic liquor privileges shall be permitted
under a class J license. The following regulations further apply to any class J
license holder:
         a.   All employees selling, delivering, checking out or receiving
payment for packaged liquors shall be at least twenty one (21) years of age and
shall be BASSET certified.
         b.   Samples and tastings shall be allowed pursuant to the Illinois
liquor code requirements.
         c.   Purchase or possession of alcoholic liquor by any person under
the age of twenty one (21) is prohibited.
         d.   A one hundred dollar ($100.00) initial application fee is
required of any vendor who is not a current West Dundee liquor license holder,
in addition to the annual license fee.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class J licensed premises shall not be permitted to
sell beer and wine for consumption off premises except between the hours of
eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) P.M.
   O.   Class K License:
      1.   Regulations: Licenses for motion picture theaters dispensing
alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises and offering food items from
a fixed concession counter during all hours in which alcoholic liquors are
offered for sale. The following regulations further apply to any class K
license holder:
         a.   Possession and consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person
under the age of twenty-one (21) is prohibited.
         b.   Patrons purchasing or possessing alcoholic liquor must be fitted
with an identifiable wristband after evidencing they are the age of twenty- one
(21) or older.
         c.   The containers in which alcoholic liquors are served must be of a
different color, size and design than those in which nonalcoholic beverages are
served.
         d.   No more than two (2) alcoholic liquor drinks may be sold to any
patron during any one transaction.
         e.   Alcoholic liquors may only be consumed within the theater
premises as delineated and identified on an approved floor plan and signage
will be posted providing notice that patrons may not exit the theater premises
with any alcoholic liquors.
         f.   All employees engaged in the sale and service of alcoholic
liquors shall be BASSET certified.
         g.   There shall be no service of alcoholic beverages unless the
theater is actually open for the showing of movies. Class K licensed premises
are not permitted to sell or serve alcoholic beverages any earlier than one (1)
hour prior to the first advertised showing time of the first movie to be shown
on any day.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class K licensed premises shall not be permitted to
sell or present alcohol for consumption between the hours of two o’clock (2:00)
A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. on any given day.
   P.   Class L License:
      1.   Regulations: License authorizes the sale of beer and wine at arts,
crafts and entertainment studios. Such sales and consumption shall be limited
to registered patrons assembled on the premises for the purpose of attending an
art, craft, or other class offered by an art studio, arts and crafts school, or
similar leisure/entertainment business while the licensee is conducting
classes. The following regulations further apply to any class L license holder:
         a.   Possession and consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person
under the age of twenty-one (21) is prohibited.
         b.   All employees engaged in the sale and service of alcoholic
liquors shall be BASSET certified.
         c.   The service of beer and wine shall only be allowed during the
time at which the facility is conducting a class.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class L licensed premises shall not be permitted to
present alcohol for consumption between the hours of twelve o’clock (12:00)
A.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M.
   Q.   Class M License:
      1.   Regulations: A class M license allows the sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption off the premises by a licensee who holds no other liquor
license issued pursuant to this chapter; provided, that such sales are provided
by a caterer and are limited to invited guests at catered functions. A class M
license shall only be issued to a caterer who conducts business from a location
established within the boundaries of the village and shall only be valid for
catered functions located within the boundaries of the village. For purposes of
a class M license, a “caterer” or terms of similar import shall mean and refer
to a business or activity, the purpose of which is the processing, preparing
and serving of food and/or drink items for immediate consumption off the
premises. At all times, the class M license holder shall comply with all of the
provisions of this chapter governing licenses and license holders, including,
but not limited to, BASSET regulations (beverage alcohol sellers and servers
education and training program). The following regulations further apply to any
class M license holder:
         a.   Possession and consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person
under the age of twenty-one (21) is prohibited.
         b.   All employees engaged in the sale and service of alcoholic
liquors shall be BASSET certified.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class M licensed operations shall not be permitted to
present alcohol for consumption between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M.
and ten o’clock (10:00) A.M., Saturday and Sunday; and between midnight (12:00)
A.M. and ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. Monday through Friday.
   R.   Class N License:
      1.   Regulations: A Class N license allows for “To Go” mixed drink
cocktails, beer or wine. These privileges are subject to the issuance,
classification and only authorized in conjunction with additional alcoholic
liquor license within the Village of West Dundee specifically Class A, AAA and
B.
         a.   “To Go” cocktails, beer and wine privileges are subject to the
delivery guidelines established by the State of Illinois as 235 ILCS 56-28.8.
         b.   That the cocktail, beer and wine is in a sealed container and
should be affixed with a label or tag that contains the following information:
            (1)   The cocktail or mixed drink ingredients, type and name of
alcohol.
            (2)   The name, license number and retail licensee that filled the
original container and sold the product.
            (3)   The volume of the mixed drink or cocktail in the sealed
container.
            (4)   The sealed container was filled less than seven (7) days
before the sale date.
         c.   Third Party delivery services are not permitted to deliver
cocktails and mixed drinks under this section.
      2.   Closing Hours: Class N licensed premises shall not be permitted to
sell “To Go” alcohol for off premises consumption, regardless of any other
liquor hour privileges, between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and ten
o’clock (10:00) A.M., Monday through Sunday.
   S.   Daily Permit: The local liquor control commission may grant a daily
permit to any not for profit organization or club, business, or local liquor
license holder held in good standing by the village and located in or providing
service in the village. A daily permit shall be valid for one day only and the
commission reserves the right to limit the sale of liquor to particular times
during the day of the permit. Permits shall be issued in accordance with the
following standards:
      1.   No more than six (6) such daily permits shall be issued to any one
such organization, club, business or liquor licensee during the period of one
year. A daily permit shall not be issued for any more than four (4) consecutive
days.
      2.   No more than eighteen (18) total daily permits will be issued by the
village during any one 12-month period (May 1 through April 30).
      3.   The daily permit fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day shall be
payable by the permittee upon the issuance of a daily permit. This permit fee
shall not be waived for any organization or business.
      4.   At a minimum, the following information is to be submitted regarding
the event:
         a.   Date, times and location of the event.
         b.   Type of alcohol to be served.
         c.   Description of security measures to be utilized for both liquor
service and the event.
         d.   Description of the area in which alcoholic liquor will be
available for service and for consumption.
      5.   Unless specifically provided otherwise all requirements of this
chapter shall apply to permits granted under this section.
      6.   The local liquor control commission will make a recommendation to
the village board upon the issuance of a daily permit request. The final action
and approval or disapproval will be taken by the village board.
      7.   Application for a daily permit must be submitted sixty (60) days in
advance of the event.
   T.   Special Use Permit License: A special use permit license allows a
licensed Illinois retailer to transfer a portion of its alcoholic liquor
inventory from the retail licensed premises to the premises specified in the
special use permit license, and to sell or offer for sale at retail, only on
the premises specified in the special use permit license, the transferred
alcoholic liquor for use or consumption on the specified premises, or for sale
at retail for off-premise consumption, as part of an approved Special Event. A
special use permit license shall be granted for the following time periods: One
day to a maximum of fifteen (15) days per special use location in any fiscal
year (May 1 to the following April 30) period. An applicant for a special use
permit license shall submit with the application satisfactory proof of dramshop
liability insurance to the maximum statutory limits. Prior to the licensed
event on the specified premises, the Illinois retailer shall submit a copy of
the state issued special use permit license to the village.
      1.   The special use permit license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
event shall be payable by the permittee upon the issuance of any special use
permit license. This permit fee shall not be waived for any organization.
      2.   At a minimum, the following information is to be submitted regarding
the event:
         a.   Date, times and location of the event.
         b.   Type of alcohol to be served or that will be offered for sale at
retail for off-premise consumption.
         c.   Description of the area in which alcoholic liquor will be
available for service and consumption or will be offered for sale at retail for
off-premise consumption.
      3.   Limited tastings are allowed in accordance with the law and the
provisions of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.).
      4.   The local liquor control commission will approve any initial special
use permit license for any liquor license holder or establishment. Any future
requests for special use permit licenses made by the same establishment may be
approved directly by the village manager's office. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd.
Ord. 89-10, 7-10-1989; Ord. 90-70, 12-3-1990; Ord. 97-13, 7-21-1997; Ord. 98-
30, 11-2-1998; Ord. 03-01, 1-20-2003; Ord. 03-02, 1-20-2003; Ord. 2003-33, 9-8-
2003; Ord. 03-35, 9-8-2003; Ord. 2004-24, 10-18-2004; Ord. 2004-31, 12-6-2004;
Ord. 2005-22, 8-15-2005; Ord. 2005-37, 12-5-2005; Ord. 2005-38, 12-19-2005;
Ord. 2009-22, 8-31-2009; Ord. 2011-01, 2-7-2011; Ord. 2013-07, 4-15-2013; Ord.
2013-13, 6-17-2013; Ord. 2015-26, 11-16-2015; Ord. 2016-30, 9-26-2016; Ord.
2018-12, 5-21-2018; Ord. 2018-24, 11-12-2018; Ord. 2019-07, 5-6-2019; Ord.
2019-20, 8-19-2019; Ord. 2020-21, 7-20-2020; Ord. 2021-16, 5-17-2021; Ord.
2021-17, 6-7-2021; Ord. 2023-07, 3-6-2023; Ord. 2025-26, 6-2-2025)
3-2-9: LICENSE FEES AND NUMBER:
The following alcoholic liquor license fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk
or Deputy Village Clerk at the time the application is filed, and shall
forthwith be deposited with the Village Manager until the application has been
reviewed by the Local Liquor Control Commission. In the event the license
applied for is denied, then the fee shall be returned to the applicant; if the
license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the General Fund or in
such other fund as shall have been designated by the Board of Trustees by
proper action.
Class Annual Fees Fees Number
Class                      Annual Fees            Fees       Number
AAA                        First bar              $3,000.00* 1
                           Each additional bar    500.00
AA                         First bar              2,500.00   1
                           Each additional bar    500.00
                           First bar              1,900.00
A                          Second bar             500.00     12
                           Each additional bar    400.00
A1                                               1,600.00   1
B                          For each service bar   1,300.00   1
C                                                1,500.00   4
CC                         For each service bar   1,800.00   0
CCC                                              1,100.00   4
D                                                900.00     1
                           Less than 5 tables     100.00
E                          More than 5 tables     400.00     7
                           Expanded Weekend Hours 50.00
F                          First bar              2,600.00   1
                           Each additional bar    500.00
G                                                900.00     1
H                                                500.00     0
J                                                250.00     0
K                                                2,500.00   1
L                                                750.00     1
M                                                750.00     1
Daily permit                                     50.00
Special use permit license                       50.00       
(Ord. 2023-07, 3-6-2023)
3-2-10: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   License Term: Each alcoholic liquor license shall commence on May 1 and
shall terminate on April 30 next following its issuance; however, alcoholic
liquor licenses may commence after May 1 for less than a full one year term,
but shall terminate on April 30 next following its issuance, when the
application therefor is reviewed by the Local Liquor Control Commission during
the regular license term, which normally commences on May 1.
   B.   Licenses Not To Constitute Property; Not Transferable: An alcoholic
liquor license shall be purely a personal privilege and shall be valid for the
time specified therein unless sooner revoked or suspended, and shall not
constitute property nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution; nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to be encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall
not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease
upon the death of the licensee; provided that executors or administrators of
the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or
bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may
continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under
order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but no longer
than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for any full
calendar month in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under
such license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   C.   Change Of Location: A retail alcoholic liquor license shall permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and
license. Such location may be changed only upon the written application to make
such change and issuance of permission by the Local Liquor Control Commission.
No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is a
proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws of this State
and the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   License To Be Posted: Every person who shall obtain an alcoholic liquor
license under this chapter shall at all times keep the license hung or posted
in some conspicuous place in his tavern, or other place of business, where said
alcoholic liquors are sold.
   E.   Sanitary Condition Of Premises: All premises used for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor or for the storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be
kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and shall be kept in full compliance
with applicable laws of the State and ordinances of the Village regulating the
condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption.
   F.   Sale To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to purchase or obtain any alcoholic liquor in any tavern,
or other place in the Village where alcoholic liquor is sold. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
   G.   Insurance: All persons granted a license to sell alcoholic liquor
within the Village under the provisions of this chapter shall carry dramshop
insurance with limits of coverage not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00).
Evidence of such dramshop insurance shall be filed with the Village Clerk or
Deputy Village Clerk, together with a receipt for the payment of the premiums
and a certificate of insurance designating the Village as a party entitled to
written notice in the event of the cancellation of said insurance coverage, for
any reason whatsoever, within ten (10) days of said cancellation, before any
license shall be issued hereunder. (Ord. 2017-14, 5-22-2017)
3-2-11: BASSET CERTIFICATION:
   A.   Proof Of Completion Of BASSET Training: Ninety (90) days after the
passage hereof all original or renewal applications for liquor licenses shall
be accompanied with proof of completion of a state certified beverage alcohol
sellers and servers education and training (BASSET) program for all persons who
sell or serve alcoholic beverages, all management personnel working on
premises, and anyone whose job description entails the checking of
identification for the purchases of alcoholic beverages, pursuant to that
license.
   B.   ILCC BASSET Training Program: Any new owner, manager, employee, or
agent requiring BASSET training, shall within ninety (90) days from the
beginning of their employment with that licensee, complete an ILCC BASSET
approved seller/server training program and shall until completion of the
BASSET program work under the supervision of a person who has completed BASSET
training.
   C.   All Licenses And Certifications On File: A "state certified BASSET
training program" shall be defined as a BASSET program licensed by the state of
Illinois liquor commission (ILCC) as required by 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/3-12(11.1). All licensed BASSET providers shall be required to have on file
all licenses and certifications to prove current qualifications and provide a
certificate of course completion and a card (a picture type ID is optional) to
participants as proof of completion.
   D.   Photocopies Of Certificates Maintained: A photocopy of certificate of
completion for all owners, managers, employees, or agents required by this
section to have BASSET training shall be maintained, by the establishment, in a
manner that will allow inspection, upon demand, by any designee of both the
state or local liquor control authorities.
   E.   Liquor License Classes Applicable: The BASSET certification provisions
should apply to all liquor license classes except daily permits and special
event licenses. (Ord. 2009-22, 8-31-2009)
   F.   Offenses By Employee: No employee shall do any of the following:
      1.   Permit any gambling, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
28.1, as amended, on the premises;
      2.   Harbor or permit any intoxicated persons to loiter on the premises
or permit any conduct which tends to provoke a breach of the peace and quiet of
the neighborhood or of the premises;
      3.   Serve any alcoholic beverage to any person for consumption on a
public street or to any person in motor vehicles on such street;
      4.   Sell alcoholic liquor to any minor, intoxicated person, habitual
drunk, spendthrift, insane, feebleminded or distracted person. (Ord. 89-04, 4-
3-1989; amd. Ord. 2009-22, 8-31-2009)
   G.   Revocation; Suspension: The local liquor control commission may
suspend, for not more than thirty (30) days, or revoke for cause any employee
permit for any violation of any provisions of this subsection or for any
violation of any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor, as
provided by law, or if said commission finds the employee not to be of good
moral character or the commission finds the employee has been convicted of a
felony. This subsection does not exclude any other power or authority of the
local liquor control commission as otherwise set forth in this chapter, but is
in addition to such authority. (Ord. 03-02, 1-20-2003; amd. Ord. 2009-22, 8-31-
2009)
3-2-12: RECORD OF LICENSES:
The local liquor control commission shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all alcoholic liquor licenses issued, and shall furnish the village
clerk with a copy thereof. The local liquor control commission shall also
notify the village clerk of the revocation of any alcoholic liquor license
granted under this chapter. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
3-2-13: NONUSE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any holder of an alcoholic liquor license issued by the village
pursuant to the terms of this chapter, who allows ninety (90) consecutive days
to elapse without using the license for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor,
may be reviewed by the local liquor control commission for termination of the
license.
   B.   The license shall be terminated if the local liquor control commission
finds, after due notice to the licensee and a hearing thereon, that there is
not justifiable cause for the licensee to maintain the license due to nonuse.
Said hearing shall be pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted by the
local liquor control commission.
   C.   There shall be no reduction or remittance of fee for involuntary
termination due to nonuse for ninety (90) consecutive days without justifiable
cause.
   D.   Justifiable cause shall include, but not be limited to, any involuntary
act of God such as natural destruction caused by wind, tornado, etc., and shall
include disaster caused by fire or other intervening cause beyond the control
of the licensee. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
3-2-14: HEARINGS; APPEALS:
   A.   Notice Of Hearing: Whenever this chapter requires a hearing before the
local liquor control commission or the local liquor control commissioner acts
affirmatively concerning a license or licensee, the licensee shall be afforded
reasonable notice of such hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or personal delivery to the address of the licensee
contained on the liquor license application and shall state:
      1.   The time, place, and nature of the hearing.
      2.   A statement of the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the
hearing is to be held.
      3.   A reference to the particular sections of the ordinances or statute
(s) involved.
      4.   A statement informing the licensee of his or her ability to respond
by presenting evidence and argument.
   B.   Conduct Of Hearings:
      1.   A hearing required under this chapter shall be held in accordance
with the following rules:
         a.   A hearing shall be held at a reasonable time, date and place.
         b.   No cause shall be heard earlier than three (3) days after receipt
by a licensee of the notice required under this chapter.
         c.   A licensee may present evidence and argument.
         d.   The local liquor control commission may limit, but not prohibit,
the presentation of evidence and argument. Evidence not admissible under the
rules of evidence and privilege as applied in civil cases in the circuit courts
of this state may be admitted if it is of a type commonly relied upon by
reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
      2.   Where a licensee has received the requisite notice under this
chapter and fails to appear at a hearing, the local liquor control commission
or local liquor control commissioner may act ex parte. The local liquor control
commissioner may also have an informal hearing where the liquor license will
not be affirmatively acted on at such hearing.
   C.   Decisions Of The Local Liquor Control Commission: Any decision, order
or determination rendered by the local liquor control commission which affects
the rights, duties or privileges of a licensee, shall be in writing and shall
notify the licensee personally or by certified mail of the decision. Any such
decision, order or determination may include an assessment of all costs, fees
and expenses as determined by the local liquor control commissioner and the
reimbursement to the village for all fees incurred, including attorney fees, as
a result of the prosecution of the offending licensee.
   D.   Waiver: Compliance with any or all of the provisions of this chapter
concerning procedure may be waived by written stipulation of all parties.
   E.   Continuances For Hearings:
      1.   A request for a continuance of any hearing in any matter before the
local liquor control commission will not be allowed by the local liquor control
commission unless for a good and valid reason in writing and unless made at
least two (2) days prior to the date set for hearing.
      2.   The local liquor control commission may, in his discretion, grant a
continuance if extenuating and unusual circumstances are presented in support
of the request for continuance.
      3.   Any continuances requested by the licensee shall be contingent upon
payment by the licensee of all costs, fees and expenses as determined by the
local liquor control commission.
   F.   Appeals: Appeals from orders of actions of the local liquor control
commission may be taken to the state of Illinois liquor control commission as
provided by law.
   G.   Decision Of Appeal: Any appeal taken from a decision of the local
liquor control commission shall be reviewed on the record taken by and prepared
by a certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter. (Ord. 89-04, 4-
3-1989; amd. Ord. 02-31, 10-7-2002)
3-2-15: LICENSE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person maintaining, owning or operating a
commercial establishment located within the village, at which alcoholic
beverages are offered for sale for consumption on the premises, to permit or
allow the following activity to be conducted on the premises of such commercial
establishment, all of which activity is defined in section
3-10-1 of this title: "adult business", "adult entertainment center"; "adults
only" activity, bookstore, motion picture theater, nightclub, sauna; "nudity";
"obscene" activity; "rap parlor"; "sadomasochistic activity"; or "sexual
conduct" activity.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any establishment defined as an "adult
business" pursuant to title 10 of this code to sell, distribute or permit beer
or alcoholic beverages on the premises. (2004 Code)
3-2-16: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation, business entity, licensee or licensee's employee
who is found in violation of any section or sections of this chapter by a
hearing of the local liquor control commission, shall be subject to the
following penalties per hearing:
   A.   Revocation of the license for cause; and/or
   B.   Suspension of the license for cause for not more than thirty (30) days;
and/or (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 92-01, 1-6-1992)
   C.   Payment of a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00); and/or (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 92-01, 1-6-1992; 2004 Code)
   D.   Payment of reasonable village attorney fees for prosecution of a
violation which results in the suspension or revocation of the license for
cause. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 92-01, 1-6-1992)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-3-2: Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax
3-3-3: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-3-4: Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
3-3-5: Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-3-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Creation of Tax: A tax is hereby imposed on all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the Village other
than the business of selling groceries, at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of Section 8-11-1 of
the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-1).
   B.   Report: Every person engaged in such business in the village shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by section three of "an act in relation to a tax
upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchasers for use or consumption" approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   C.   Payment: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2025-31, 7-7-2025)
3-3-2: MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Creation of Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
the business of selling groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of
one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of
such business. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to
the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-
11-24).
   B.   Report: Every person engaged in such business in the Village shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by section three of "an act in relation to a tax
upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchasers for use or consumption" approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   C.   Payment: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
   D.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of
Revenue of the State of Illinois which shall have full power to administer and
enforce these provisions of this code. (Ord. 2025-31, 7-7-2025)
3-3-3: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Creation of Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
this municipality in the business of making sales of service other than in the
business of transferring groceries as an incident to a sale of service at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the cost price of all tangible personal property
transferred by said servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property
or in the form of real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in
accordance with the provisions of 8-11-5 of the Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-
5).
   B.   Report: Every supplier or serviceman required to account for municipal
service occupation tax for the benefit of the village shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of
revenue required by section nine of the "service occupation tax act".
   C.   Payment: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989; amd. Ord. 96-9, 4-15-1996; Ord. 2025-31, 7-7-2025)
3-3-4: MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Creation of Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
this municipality in the business of making sales of service, who, as an
incident to making those sales of service, transfer groceries as an incident to
a sale of service. The rate of this tax shall be the same rate identified in
Section 3-3-1, above. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   B.   Report: Every person engaged in such business in the village shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by section three of "an act in relation to a tax
upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchasers for use or consumption" approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   C.   Payment: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
   D.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of
Revenue of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have
full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this code. (Ord. 2025-
31, 7-7-2025)
3-3-5: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal property
titled or registered with an agency of the state of Illinois government, at
retail in this municipality at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) of
the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this section is in effect; and a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged
in this municipality in the business of making sales of services, at the rate
of one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the selling price of all tangible
personal property transferred by such "municipal retailers' occupation tax" and
the "home rule municipal service occupation tax" shall not be applicable to the
sales of food for human consumption which is to be consumed off the premises
where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food which
has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics. The imposition of these home
rule taxes are in accordance with the provisions of section 8-11-1 and 8-11-5,
respectively, of the Illinois municipal code 1 . (Ord. 96-14, 9-16-1996; amd.
Ord. 03-32, 8-4-2003; Ord. 2025-31, 7-7-2025)
 
Notes
1    65 ILCS 5/8-11-1 and 5/8-11-5.
CHAPTER 4
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: License Issuance And Renewal
3-4-4: Standards
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings, and are
hereby defined as follows:
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: An owner occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than ten (10) guest
units for rent, in operation for more than ten (10) nights in a twelve (12)
month period. Only the breakfast meal may be provided to the registered guests.
The service of food to the public for a charge is otherwise prohibited. Bed and
breakfast establishments shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses, or
food service establishments.
   BED AND BREAKFAST GUEST: Person or persons staying in a bed and breakfast
guest unit overnight, but not to exceed fifteen (15) consecutive days, and
having a permanent residence at an address other than the address of the bed
and breakfast guest unit temporarily occupied. A bed and breakfast guest may
not stay overnight in any portion of the dwelling unit not designated as a
guest unit.
   BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATOR: The owner of the bed and breakfast
establishment, who is required to reside in the bed and breakfast
establishment.
   GUEST UNIT: A sleeping room or group of rooms within a residential dwelling
unit, forming a separate area, used or intended to be used for living or
sleeping, but not for cooking purposes, by no more than two (2) transient
guests per night for a continuous period not in excess of fifteen (15) days per
guest. (Ord. 98-33, 11-2-1998)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a bed and breakfast establishment without first
obtaining a license therefor as provided in chapter 1 of this title. For the
first five (5) consecutive years of operation, an annual license shall be
issued by the village clerk pursuant to the formal review and approval by the
village president and board of trustees which shall expire on April 30 of each
year, unless sooner revoked. From the sixth consecutive year of operation and
on, an annual license shall be obtained pursuant to
chapter 1 of this title and based on a biannual formal review and approval by
the village president and board of trustees. No license shall be transferable
to another person or location or to other bed and breakfast guest units. (Ord.
98-33, 11-2-1998)
3-4-3: LICENSE ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL:
No license shall be issued or renewed until the building and facilities have
been inspected and approved by the village to assure compliance with the
standards set forth herein. (Ord. 98-33, 11-2-1998)
3-4-4: STANDARDS:
In addition to the requirements set forth in
chapter 1 of this title and applicable provisions of the municipal and building
codes and zoning ordinance no license shall be issued unless the following
standards are met:
   A.   The occupancy limitation for a guest unit shall be as follows: The
guest unit may not be less than seventy (70) square feet for one guest and one
hundred (100) square feet for two (2) guests.
   B.   One off street parking space shall be provided for each authorized
guest unit, plus one additional off street space for the dwelling unit.
   C.   All buildings containing guest units must be occupied by the owner
whenever bed and breakfast guests are present.
   D.   The owner of a bed and breakfast establishment shall have liability
insurance coverage for bed and breakfast guests in the amount of at least five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00), and a copy of such insurance coverage
shall be submitted to the village with application for license or renewal of
license.
   E.   Exterior advertising signs shall not be permitted. (Ord. 98-33, 11-2-
1998)
   F.   Each person who is provided accommodations shall be provided individual
soap and clean individual bath cloths and towels. Clean bed linen in good
repair shall be provided for each guest who is provided accommodations and
shall be changed between guests and as often as necessary. Clean linen shall be
stored and handled in a sanitary manner.
   G.   Bed and breakfast establishments shall meet the state fire marshal's
requirements for one- and two-family dwellings. In addition, the following
standards shall be required:
      1.   Manual extinguishing equipment shall be provided on each floor in
accordance with NFPA 10 standards for the installation of portable fire
extinguishers.
      2.   No door which must be used as a required means of escape shall be
locked against egress when the building is occupied. All locking devices which
impede or prohibit egress or which cannot be easily disengaged shall be
prohibited.
      3.   All combustibles or flammable liquids shall be stored in approved
metal containers. No combustible storage shall be allowed in or under
stairways.
      4.   All trash containers shall be metal.
      5.   No cooking facilities or portable heaters shall be permitted in
guestrooms.
      6.   No means of escape shall be so located as to be blocked in case of
fire arising from the malfunctioning of a stove or other heating device.
      7.   All heating equipment shall be inspected and serviced at least
annually by a competent heating contractor.
      8.   All hallways and stairways shall be adequately lighted (a minimum of
3 lumens) while the building is occupied by guests.
      9.   Smoke detectors shall be installed in each guestroom and on each
building level, including the basement. Battery powered smoke detectors shall
be tested regularly in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      10.   Exit and emergency lighting shall be provided in accordance with
the village fire prevention code whenever a bed and breakfast establishment
contains a guestroom which is located above the second floor of the building.
      11.   When guest units are located above the second floor in buildings to
be used as bed and breakfast establishments, the buildings:
         a.   Shall be evaluated for life safety using the village fire
prevention code, the fire safety score must exceed five (5); means of egress
and general safety scores must exceed fifteen (15).
         b.   Shall have an automatic fire alarm system (including return duct
detection) capable of signaling all occupants.
         c.   Shall have at least two (2) stairways leading to the level of
exit discharge.
In all cases, the level of exit discharge shall have at least two (2) exits.
When two (2) stairways are required, they shall be enclosed by at least twenty
(20) minute rated construction, including self-closing doors.
      12.   Storage, such as in a basement, shall be in a one hour rated
enclosure when deemed in sufficient quantities to be hazardous.
      13.   A floor plan of the bed and breakfast establishment shall be
submitted to the fire department for approval, which shall indicate: the size
of proposed building, exits, location of smoke detectors, and location of
extinguishing devices.
      14.   All bed and breakfast units shall have posted on the inside of the
entry door, a drawing showing the direction of exit travel, the approximate
distance in feet, and the allowable occupant load of that unit.
      15.   Travel distance from any guest unit to an exit shall not exceed
seventy five feet (75').
Exception: If two (2) separate directions of exit travel are provided from a
guest unit, then the travel distance to the exits shall not exceed one hundred
feet (100') in either direction.
      16.   Fireplaces may be operated in the bed and breakfast establishment
provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   Fireplaces and chimneys are to be inspected by competent chimney
contractors on an annual basis and a copy of the chimney contractor's
inspection report shall be submitted to the fire department for review and
approval prior to the issuance or renewal of the business license;
         b.   Fireplaces are fitted with suitable screens or doors to prevent
passage of sparks or embers; and
         c.   No combustibles shall be stored within five feet (5') around the
fireplace opening. This shall include, but not be limited to, bedding,
curtains, pillows and kindling.
   H.   Bed and breakfast establishments which serve breakfast shall comply
with the following minimum standards:
      1.   Food shall be clean, wholesome, free from spoilage, free from
adulteration and misbranding and safe for human consumption. Containers of food
shall be stored above the floor, on clean racks, shelves or other clean
surfaces in such a manner as to be protected from splash or other
contamination. Milk of only pasteurized grade A may be used. Use of home canned
food is prohibited except for jams and jellies.
      2.   Food shall be protected from contamination while being stored,
prepared and served, and during transportation. Perishable foods shall be
stored at temperatures that will protect them against spoilage. Potentially
hazardous food shall be maintained at safe temperatures of forty five degrees
Fahrenheit (45°F) or above, as appropriate, except during necessary periods of
preparation and serving. Frozen food shall be kept at temperatures that will
keep them frozen, except when being thawed for preparation. Potentially
hazardous frozen food shall be thawed at refrigeration temperatures or below,
quick thawed as part of the cooking process, or thawed by another method
approved by the local health department. An indicating thermometer shall be
located in each refrigerator. Raw fruits and vegetables shall be washed
thoroughly before use. Stuffing, poultry, and pork products shall be cooked to
heat all parts of the food at least one hundred sixty five degrees Fahrenheit
(165°F) before being served. Salads made of meat, poultry, potatoes, fish,
shellfish, or eggs and other potentially hazardous prepared food, shall be
prepared from chilled products with a minimum of manual contact. Portions of
food once served to an individual may not be served again. Laundry facilities
shall be separated from the food preparation areas. Live animals shall be
excluded from food preparation areas.
      3.   No person knowingly infected with a communicable disease that may be
transmitted by food handling may work in a bed and breakfast establishment.
      4.   If the bed or breakfast operator suspects that any employee, family
member or the operator himself or herself has a reportable communicable
disease, as defined in the Illinois department of public health and rules and
regulations for the control of communicable diseases, the operator shall notify
the local health department immediately.
      5.   All operators shall be certified. Certification shall be achieved by
successfully completing an examination offered by the local health department
as described in the current edition of the state of Illinois food service
sanitation rules and regulations.
      6.   Persons preparing or serving food or washing utensils shall wear
clean outer garments and maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness. They
shall wash their hands thoroughly before starting work and as often as
necessary while working to remove soil and contaminants. After visiting a
toilet room, persons shall wash their hands thoroughly in a lavatory, but never
in the kitchen sink.
      7.   No one, while preparing or serving food, may use tobacco in any
form.
      8.   Utensils shall be kept clean and in good repair.
      9.   Multiuse eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned
after each use. Facilities needed for the operations of washing, rinsing and
sanitizing shall be provided.
      10.   Pots, pans and other utensils used in the preparation or serving of
food or drink and all food storage utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned after
each use. Cooking surfaces of equipment, if any, shall be cleaned at least once
each day. Nonfood contact surfaces of equipment shall be cleaned at intervals
that will keep them in a clean and sanitary condition.
      11.   Residential sinks and home style mechanical dishwashing machines
are acceptable facilities for washing multiuse eating and drinking utensils.
Sinks and dishwashing machines shall be supplied with hot and cold potable
running water. For manual cleaning and sanitizing, multiuse eating and drinking
utensils shall be washed in a hot detergent solution that is kept clean, and
shall be rinsed free of detergent in clean water.
      12.   Immediately following either manual or mechanical washing of eating
or drinking utensils, and pots, pans and other cooking utensils, these utensils
shall be effectively sanitized by being submerged in a hypochlorite solution
with a chlorine concentration continuously maintained in one hundred (100)
parts per million, or another approved sanitizing solution which shall be used
at the concentration tested and approved by the local health department.
Dishpans may be used to accomplish the final sanitizing rinse. Utensils shall
be air dried.
      13.   The reuse of single service utensils is prohibited.
      14.   Effective measures intended to minimize the presence of rodents,
flies, cockroaches, and other insects on the premises shall be utilized. The
premises shall be kept in such condition as to prevent the harborage or feeding
of insects or rodents.
      15.   All garbage and refuse shall be stored and collected in accordance
with the provisions of
title 4, chapter 2 of this code.
      16.   Containers of poisonous or toxic materials necessary for
operational maintenance of the establishment shall be prominently and
distinctly labeled in accordance with law. Insecticides and rodenticides shall
be stored and located to be physically separated from detergents, sanitizers,
related cleaning or drying agents and other chemicals in cabinets or similar
physically separated compartments or facilities used for no other purpose. To
preclude potential contamination, poisonous or toxic materials shall not be
stored above or intermingled with food, food utensils and equipment and single
service articles. (Ord. 98-33, 11-2-1998; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Mechanical/Electronic Amusement Devices
3-5-3: Sweepstakes Machines
3-5-4: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   GAME ROOM: A public place of amusement which contains ten (10) or more
mechanical amusement devices.
   JUKEBOX: Any device, whether manually or electrically operated, to which a
fee is paid for the selection and playing of music desired.
   MECHANICAL/ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Whether manually or electrically
operated or a combination of both operations, all amusement machines, whether
purporting to be games of skill or otherwise, for which a fee or charge is made
for the privilege of playing or operating the same, including jukeboxes, but
excluding all standard vending machines used in connection with the purchase of
standard brands of merchandise or video gaming devices as defined by the state
of Illinois. For purposes of this chapter, mechanical/electronic amusement
device shall not include sweepstakes machine as defined herein.
SWEEPSTAKES MACHINE: Any stand-along, table top, or similar mechanically,
electrically, or electronically, operated device in which, upon payment, a
participant is automatically entered into a sweepstakes or similar promotion
wherein the participant has the option to reveal the results of entry into said
sweepstakes or promotion via a display mimicking slot machines, poker, keno,
bingo, or any other similar gambling game and thereafter exchange any credits,
whether in the form of a printed ticket or otherwise, for cash or merchandise
as a prize. Any such device shall be considered a sweepstakes machine
regardless of whether a coupon for a product or service is provided in exchange
for the payment.
   VIDEO GAMING DEVICE: Whether manually or electrically operated or a
combination of both operations, all machines which, under the laws of the state
of Illinois, are gambling devices pursuant to the video gaming act. (Ord. 03-
04, 1-20-2003; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2013-01, 2-4-2013; Ord. 2014-20, 7-21-2014;
Ord. 2020-38, 12-21-2020)
3-5-2: MECHANICAL/ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
   A.   Mechanical/Electronic Amusement License And Alcoholic Liquor License:
For establishments holding a valid liquor license in addition to a license for
mechanical/electronic amusement devices, the following regulations shall apply:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall frequent,
loiter or play any "mechanical/electronic amusement device" as herein defined,
without being accompanied by his or her natural parent or guardian, appointed
by lawful order of court.
      2.   Each business establishment located within the corporate limits of
the village where less than the whole of said establishment is dedicated to
mechanical/electronic amusement devices, shall post a conspicuous sign stating
that:
No person under the age of 21 years shall enter, frequent or play these devices
without being accompanied by their natural parent or guardian appointed by
natural lawful order of the court.
(Ord. 03-04, 1-20-2003; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Mechanical/Electronic Amusement License And Alcoholic Liquor License
And Video Gaming License: For establishments holding a valid liquor license in
addition to a license for mechanical/electronic amusement devices and video
gaming devices, as approved by the state of Illinois and the village of West
Dundee, the following regulations shall apply:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall frequent,
loiter or play at any "mechanical/electronic amusement device" as licensed by
the state of Illinois as a video gaming device.
      2.   Each business establishment located within the corporate limits of
the village where less than the whole of said establishment is dedicated to
mechanical/electronic amusement devices and/or video gaming, shall post a
conspicuous sign stating that:
Video gaming terminal use by minors is prohibited. No person under the age of
21 years shall cause to remit, use or play a video gaming terminal.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any persons to install, keep, maintain or
use, or permit the installation, keeping, maintenance or use, upon its premises
of any video gaming terminal, unless proper and valid licenses issued under
this section for video gaming is issued and in effect.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a video gaming
terminal operator or video gaming terminal distributor within the corporate
limits of West Dundee and distributing a video gaming device for use by any
person or business for profit from the operation thereof, unless a license has
been issued by the village and the license fee has been paid in full for the
current year.
   C.   Mechanical/Electronic Amusement License Only: For all establishments
holding a license for mechanical/electronic amusement devices and not holding a
liquor license, the following regulations shall apply:
      1.   For all establishments where the entire establishment is dedicated
to mechanical and electronic amusement devices and apparatus, and said
mechanical/electronic amusement devices are the primary business of the
establishment, and where a full time attendant is on duty and assigned
specifically to the supervision, control and operation of said establishment,
children under the age of sixteen (16) years shall be permitted to frequent, go
upon and remain in said establishment upon the following terms and conditions:
         a.   An attendant or custodian is specifically designated for the
purpose of supervising and controlling the activities in said establishment at
all times such establishment is open.
         b.   That amusement machines are not considered gambling devices or
similar to gambling devices under the laws of the state of Illinois.
         c.   That the business establishment post identifiable signs clearly
visible within such establishment that the use of such amusement machines
during normal school hours by school age children under the age of eighteen
(18) years is specifically prohibited, and further adopt a procedure to
identify customers under the age of eighteen (18) years, and prohibit said
customers from use of said amusement machines during regular school hours
during the school year.
         d.   That no such establishment shall be allowed operating hours
earlier than eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
each day.
      2.   For all establishments where the primary business of the
establishment is not mechanical/electronic amusement devices and where there
are personnel present during business hours to regulate the other business,
children under the age of sixteen (16) years shall be permitted to frequent, go
upon and remain in said establishment upon the following terms and conditions:
         a.   That amusement machines are not considered gambling devices or
similar to gambling devices under the laws of the state of Illinois.
         b.   That the business establishment post identifiable signs clearly
visible within such establishment that the use of such amusement machines
during normal school hours by school age children under the age of eighteen
(18) years is specifically prohibited, and further adopt a procedure to
identify customers under the age of eighteen (18) years, and prohibit said
customers from use of said amusement machines during regular school hours
during the school year.
   D.   Term, Nonassignability Of Mechanical/Electronic Amusement License: For
all establishments described under this section, as a condition of issuance of
a mechanical/electronic amusement device license hereunder, each licensee shall
be provided with a written notification on the face of said license, stating
that the licensee acknowledges that the license is issued for a one year term
only, and is not subject to automatic renewal, assignment or transfer, and must
be applied for on an annual basis. Further, said licensee shall accept said
condition in writing on the face of said license. (Ord. 03-04, 1-20-2003; amd.
2004 Code; Ord. 2013-01, 2-4-2013; Ord. 2021-02, 3-1-2021)
3-5-3: SWEEPSTAKES MACHINES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense It shall be unlawful
to own, lease, or operate any sweepstakes machine, as herein defined, in any
public place within the Village. (Ord. 2020-38, 12-21-2020)
3-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
03-04, 1-20-2003; amd. Ord. 2020-38, 12-21-2020)
CHAPTER 6
TOBACCO DEALERS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: License Required
3-6-3: License Application; Fee
3-6-4: Prohibitions Regarding Minors
3-6-5: Certain Free Distribution Prohibited
3-6-6: Vending Machines; Locking Devices
3-6-7: Administration And Enforcement
3-6-8: Penalties
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases, shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   SMOKELESS TOBACCO: Any tobacco products that are suitable for dipping or
chewing.
   SMOKING PARAPHERNALIA: Smoking devices, accessories and paraphernalia,
including cigarette paper, cigarette and cigar rolling machines, pipes, bongs
and any other devices which are manufactured or constructed for the use in
connection with the preparation or consumption of smoking of tobacco products.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic self-service device,
which, upon the insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment,
dispenses tobacco products. (Ord. 03-04, 1-20-2003)
3-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, at retail; to give away,
deliver or keep with the intention of selling at retail, tobacco products
within the village without first having obtained a tobacco dealer's license,
pursuant to this chapter. Such license shall be in addition to any other
license required by this code. (Ord. 03-04, 1-20-2003)
3-6-3: LICENSE APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   Application for a tobacco license shall be made, in writing, to the
village clerk and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The fee for a tobacco dealer's license shall be thirty five dollars
($35.00) per annum due and payable by January 1 of each year. (Ord. 2007-03, 1-
22-2007)
   B.   Any not for profit organization may apply for a license fee waiver. In
the event the not for profit organization is granted a fee waiver, no license
fee shall be due. However, all other regulations of this code shall be
applicable. (Ord. 03-04, 1-20-2003)
3-6-4: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS:
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   Sales To Minors: For any person, including any licensee, to sell, offer
for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products or smoking paraphernalia to any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years. Signs informing the public of
these age restrictions provided for herein shall be posted by every licensee at
or near every display of tobacco products and on or upon every vending machine
which offers tobacco products or smoking paraphernalia for sale. Each sign
shall be plainly visible and shall state: “THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO
PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE (21) YEARS OF AGE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.” The text of
such sign shall be in red letters on white background; said letters to be at
least one inch (1") high.
   B.   Sale By Minors: For any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee to engage, employ or permit
any minor person under the age of eighteen (18) years to sell, deliver, barter,
give or exchange tobacco products or smoking paraphernalia in any licensed
premises.
   C.   Purchase By Minors: For any persons under the age of twenty-one (21)
years to purchase tobacco products or to misrepresent his identity or age or
use any false or altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco
products or smoking paraphernalia.
   D.   Possession By Minors: For any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years to possess any tobacco products or smoking paraphernalia. Nothing herein
shall prohibit the possession or use of tobacco or tobacco products by a minor
in his or her home, under the direct supervision of his or her parent or
guardian. (Ord. 03-04, 1-20-2003; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 1-20-2025)
3-6-5: CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or person in the business of selling or
otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products or smoking
paraphernalia or any employee or agent of any such licensee or person, in the
course of such licensee's or person's business, to distribute, give away or
deliver tobacco products or paraphernalia free of charge to any person on any
right of way, park, playground or other property owned by the village, any
school district, any park district or any public library. (Ord. 03-04, 1-20-
2003)
3-6-6: VENDING MACHINES; LOCKING DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale, give away,
deliver, or to keep with the intention of selling, giving away, or delivering
tobacco products or smoking paraphernalia by use of a vending machine. (Ord.
03-04, 1-20-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-15, 6-17-2024)
3-6-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administration: The village president shall be charged with the
administration of this chapter.
   B.   Suspension And Revocation Of License: The village president may suspend
or revoke any license issued under the provisions of this chapter if he or she
determines that the licensee has violated any provisions hereof.
   C.   Fine In Lieu Of Suspension Or Revocation: In lieu of suspension or
revocation of license, the village president may levy a fine on the licensee.
The fine imposed shall not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
violation. Each day on which the violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
   D.   Hearing; Decisions; Fees:
      1.   Notice Of Hearing: No such license shall be suspended, revoked and/
or licensee fined except after a public hearing by the village president, after
a seven (7) day written notice has been delivered by certified mail or personal
service to the licensee, affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and
defend against the charges contained in such notice. The seven (7) day notice
provision shall begin the day following delivery by certified mail or personal
service.
      2.   Village President's Decision: Within seven (7) days after such
hearing the village president shall determine if the licensee is guilty or not
guilty. If the licensee is found guilty the license may be revoked or suspended
and the licensee may be fined. The order of the village president shall be in
writing, contain the reasons for the determination and served upon the
licensee.
      3.   Fees: Any licensee determined by the village president to have
violated any of the provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for the
cost of the hearing, including, but not limited to, court reporter fees,
transcripts or records, attorney fees and administrative fees. The licensee
shall pay said cost to the village within thirty (30) days of notification of
the costs by the village. Failure to pay said cost within thirty (30) days
shall be a violation of this chapter and grounds for license suspension or
revocation or the levy of the fine.
   E.   Use Of Premises After License Revocation: When any license has been
revoked for cause, a tobacco dealer's license shall not be issued for not less
than six (6) months for the premises described in the revoked license.
   F.   Responsibility Of Licensee For Agents And Employees: Every act or
omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any provisions of
this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of
the licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such licensee and shall
be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or
admitted by the licensee personally. (Ord. 03-04, 1-20-2003)
3-6-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) and not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Any person, firm or corporation convicted of a
second or subsequent offense shall be punished by a fine not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) and no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Knowing or repeat of violations of any provision or combinations of
provisions of this chapter by a licensee shall be grounds for revocation or
suspension of such license. For purposes of this section, "license" includes
any and all licenses issued by the village required for retail or other
business operations at the location at which the offense occurred. (Ord. 03-04,
1-20-2003)
CHAPTER 7
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Licenses Required Of Peddlers, Commercial Solicitors And Itinerant
Vendors
3-7-3: Issuance Of License
3-7-4: License Fee; Deposit
3-7-5: Regulation Of Solicitors For Funds
3-7-6: Village Policy On Soliciting
3-7-7: Regulations Applicable To All Soliciting And Peddling
3-7-8: Licenses And Identification Badges
3-7-9: License Revocation
3-7-10: Penalty
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings, and are hereby
defined, as follows:
   ITINERANT VENDOR: Every itinerant merchant and every person who, by himself
or by another, within the limits of the village, engages in or conducts a
temporary or transient business of selling goods, wares or merchandise with the
intention of continuing in such business in the village for a period of not
more than one hundred twenty (120) days, and who, for the purpose of carrying
on such business, uses, leases or occupies, either in whole or in part, an
outdoor or indoor location, which may include a room, building or other
structure, for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares or merchandise,
shall be deemed an itinerant vendor of merchandise. All regulations applicable
to peddlers shall apply to itinerant vendors.
   PEDDLER: A person who engages in peddling.
   PEDDLING: The sale or offering for sale of property, for immediate delivery
from other than a fixed place of business on private property, not including
the sale of religious books or pamphlets. Peddling, commercial solicitation and
itinerant vending shall not include the sale of goods by local not for profit
organizations organized for educational, religious or charitable purposes not
to exceed two (2) days in any calendar year.
   SOLICITING OR SOLICITATION: Shall include any of the following:
   A.   Commercial Soliciting: The selling or offering for sale of property,
not including religious books or pamphlets, for future delivery from other than
a fixed place of business on private property.
   B.   Fund Soliciting: Soliciting of funds not involving the sale of
property, including solicitation where religious pamphlets or books are given
or sold to a donor of funds. (Ord. 95-03, 2-20-1995)
3-7-2: LICENSES REQUIRED OF PEDDLERS, COMMERCIAL SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT
VENDORS:
Every person engaged in the business of peddling, commercial soliciting or
itinerant vending must obtain a license from the village as hereinafter
provided. Application for said license shall include the following information:
   A.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence
at such address; business address if other than residence address; business and
residence telephone numbers; and social security number.
   B.   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years if other
than present address.
   C.   Physical description of the applicant.
   D.   Date of birth of applicant and driver's license number and state.
   E.   Name, address, Federal tax identification number and State Sales Tax
number of the person, firm or corporation or association by whom the applicant
is employed or represents, and the length of time of such employment or
representation.
   F.   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if other
than present employer.
   G.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of the
soliciting in which the applicant will engage.
   H.   Period of time for which the license is sought.
   I.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for a
license under this chapter, if any.
   J.   Whether a license issued to the applicant by the Village or any other
municipality has ever been revoked.
   K.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter or ordinance of any other Illinois municipality
regulating soliciting.
   L.   Evidence that the applicant is authorized to solicit for the
organization represented.
   M.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of felony within the preceding
ten (10) years, or convicted of a misdemeanor or ordinance violation within the
preceding five (5) years, and the nature of the offense.
   N.   Such additional information as the Police Chief may deem necessary to
process the application. The application shall contain a waiver of liability
allowing the Village to investigate and verify the information contained in the
application.
   O.   The application shall be verified, under oath, by the applicant stating
that the information contained therein is true and correct.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection
therewith, shall be under oath. (Ord. 95-03, 2-20-1995)
3-7-3: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   The application for license shall be reviewed by the Village Manager
and the Police Department. If, upon review of the application, the applicant is
determined to be qualified, then upon payment of the license fee and upon
compliance with the provisions of this title relating to business licenses, the
license shall be issued within seven (7) business days of receipt of the
application. Where warranted, the Village reserves the right to further
investigate the information contained in the application and an applicant to
determine if the applicant qualifies for a license. If the investigation or the
application discloses a conviction of any ordinance regulating peddlers or
solicitors, or if the conviction of a felony has occurred within the last ten
(10) years or if the conviction of a misdemeanor or ordinance violation or
revocation of a license has occurred within the last five (5) years, or if the
conviction bears a reasonable relationship to the peddling and soliciting
activities by the licensee, then the license shall not be issued.
   B.   The Chief of Police shall keep in his office an accurate record of
every application received and acted upon, together with all other information
and data pertaining thereto, all licenses issued under this chapter and the
denial of applications. Applications for licenses shall be numbered in
consecutive order as filed. Every license issued and any renewal shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
received. (Ord. 95-03, 2-20-1995)
3-7-4: LICENSE FEE; DEPOSIT:
   A.   All solicitors and peddlers, except those licensed in section
 3-7-5 of this chapter, shall pay a license fee in accordance with section
3-1-9 of this title. A license fee may be waived by the Village Manager for
seven (7) consecutive days per calendar year, where the vendor or person in
control of property upon which the vendor is conducting business is a
governmental or quasi-governmental agency, a not for profit corporation or a
charitable organization. (Ord. 95-03, 2-20-1995; amd. Ord. 08-34, 8-4-2008)
   B.   1. The Village Board of West Dundee may, at its election, choose to
impose a deposit equal to the license fee as required in accordance with
section
3-1-9 of this title.
      2.   The deposit fee may be forfeited upon violation of any conditions or
violations of the license issuance. Upon successful completion of the terms or
conditions of the license issuance, the deposit fee shall be returned. (Ord.
08-34, 8-4-2008)
3-7-5: REGULATION OF SOLICITORS FOR FUNDS:
   A.   Solicitors for funds must comply with solicitation for charity act, 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/0.01 et seq., if applicable, and must register
with the police chief at least three (3) days prior to soliciting funds. The
applicant in registering must furnish all information required in the
application for license provided in section
3-7-2 of this chapter. No license fee shall be required except for the cost of
providing photo identification as required in subsection
 3-7-8B of this chapter.
   B.   Solicitors for funds for organizations that have had a fixed place of
operation in the village for over two (2) years shall be exempt from
reregistering under this section if already registered. However before
soliciting, the organization shall provide an updated list of solicitors to the
police chief listing their names and addresses; and providing said organization
is in compliance with the solicitation for charity act, 225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 460/0.01 et seq., or the village manager determines that the
organization is a qualified charitable organization as defined under the act
and qualifies for an exemption from registration pursuant to section 3 of the
act. (Ord. 95-03, 2-20-1995)
3-7-6: VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING:
It is the policy of the village that the occupants of the residences of this
village shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall be, or shall
not be, invited into their respective residences. (Ord. 95-03, 2-20-1995)
3-7-7: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SOLICITING AND PEDDLING:
   A.   No person shall engage in solicitation or peddling upon any private
property after having been asked by the owner or occupant thereof to leave such
property.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in peddling or
solicitation upon any private premises or residence or business located thereon
if such premises or residence is posted against solicitation or peddling by
means of a notice, prominently displayed upon which is printed the legend:
   NO SOLICITORS OR PEDDLERS
For purposes of the preceding sentence, a private property shall be deemed to
be posted against solicitation or peddling if there is exhibited, on or near
the main entrance to the property or on or near the main door to any structure
located thereof, a sign at least three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in size
and with the letters at least one inch (1") in height, which bears the above
legend.
   C.   Signs complying with the foregoing requirements shall be made available
at cost at the village hall to persons requesting the same.
   D.   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in
the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in this section, if any is attached, and be governed by the
statement contained in the notice. If the notice states "Only Solicitors
Registered in West Dundee Invited" then the solicitor not possessing a valid
license as herein provided shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises. If the notice states "No Solicitors or Peddlers" then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   E.   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited
or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
   F.   No person who engages in solicitation or peddling shall use any plan,
scheme or ruse or make any statement which indicates or implies that the
purpose of such person's solicitation is other than to obtain orders for or to
make sales of goods or services.
   G.   No person who engages in solicitation or peddling shall misrepresent
the right of a buyer to rescind or cancel a sale under the provisions of
applicable law. All buyers shall be informed in writing as to their rescission
or cancellation rights under the provisions of applicable law.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in commercial
solicitation or peddling or fund soliciting at any time prior to nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. local time of any weekday, or at
any time on Sunday, or on a state or national holiday.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any person to peddle or solicit on or along
the streets or highways rights of way except sidewalks within the village
unless as otherwise provided herein.
   J.   No peddler or solicitor shall peddle or solicit by shouting or by using
any sound device in connection with peddling or soliciting, including bells or
amplifying systems.
   K.   No peddler shall peddle within five hundred feet (500') of the grounds
of any school between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
during days school is in session. (Ord. 95-03, 2-20-1995)
3-7-8: LICENSES AND IDENTIFICATION BADGES:
   A.   The license issued to solicitors, peddlers and itinerant vendors shall
be carried with the solicitor while he/she is engaged in the business of
soliciting.
   B.   Except for those solicitors identified in subsection
 3-7-5B of this chapter, all solicitors and peddlers shall wear a photo
identification badge at least two inches by three inches (2" x 3") identifying
the organization for which the soliciting is being conducted and identifying
the individual person peddling and/or soliciting by name and the solicitor's
picture. This badge shall be worn prominently on each person peddling and/or
soliciting. Upon request, each peddler and solicitor shall allow any person so
requesting the right to examine the badge. The police department will provide,
upon request, solicitation photo identification badges for a fee as annually
determined by the village.
   C.   Licenses and identification badges shall be used only by the persons to
whom they were issued and may not be transferred to any other person. (Ord. 95-
03, 2-20-1995)
3-7-9: LICENSE REVOCATION:
Any license issued to a peddler or solicitor pursuant to this chapter may be
revoked for any violation of this chapter or of any other ordinance of the
village, or of any state or federal law, or whenever the licensee shall cease
to possess the qualifications and character required for the original license.
(Ord. 95-03, 2-20-1995)
3-7-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any section of this chapter shall be
fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code and be responsible for the village's cost of prosecution.
Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 95-03, 2-20-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Interpretation
3-8-3: Approval Required
3-8-4: Approval Application Procedures
3-8-5: Conditions Of Approval
3-8-6: Alcohol Sale And Consumption
3-8-7: Responsibility Of Sponsor
3-8-8: Revocation Of Approval; Appeals
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ASSEMBLY: An event designed, promoted or conducted in order to encourage the
gathering of people upon public or private property at a specified location and
shall include any fair, farmers' market, festival, flea market, show, fireworks
display, demonstration, exhibition, gaming event, street dance, pageant,
carnival, circus, concert, sporting event, game or similar activity, except
that a residential block party or parade shall not be considered an assembly
for the purpose of this chapter.
   EXEMPT EVENTS: Garage and yard sales (single and neighboring), private
parties with or without outside amplification, church or school rummage sales,
bake sales or similar events, groundbreaking events, church sponsored summer
camps or mall events in center court or in a specific wing or retail
establishment that expect to draw crowds of less than one thousand (1,000)
people in excess of regular shopping patrons are exempt from application
requirements.
   MALL SPECIAL EVENT: Events designed to draw crowds of one thousand (1,000)
or more in excess of regular shopping patrons or with special admission fees,
or scheduled to occur outdoors at Spring Hill Mall.
   MERCHANT ORGANIZED EVENTS: Events designed to allow congregation of patrons
including sidewalk sale, grand opening celebration, fundraiser, food event, or
any type of "assembly" as herein described.
   PARADE: A procession of any kind, which moves from place to place upon
public property along a specified route and shall include any march, race,
walk-a-thon, bike-a-thon, demonstration, or similar activity.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any street, alley, sidewalk, park, parkway or mall, owned,
controlled or managed by the village of West Dundee.
   RANDALL OAKS EVENT: Park district sponsored events, golf tournaments and
private occasion parties such as weddings and business meetings are exempt from
regulation by the village.
   RESIDENTIAL BLOCK PARTY: Any event designed, promoted, or conducted in order
to encourage a gathering of residents of a block upon a local street, or the
sidewalks or parkways abutting a local street, where the sponsors of such event
reside in the block where such gathering takes place.
   SPECIAL EVENT: Any residential block party, assembly or parade, mall special
event, merchant organized event, held on public or private property which is
open to the public, and/or where food and liquor sales would be permitted, and/
or hours would be extended past dusk, and/or corporate sponsorship would be
allowed.
   SPONSOR: The person who has applied for approval under this chapter. The
sponsor shall be the person to whom the permit is issued. (Ord. 2006-46, 9-11-
2006)
3-8-2: INTERPRETATION:
It is expressly declared a legislative intent that this chapter shall be
interpreted and administered so as to allow the fullest expression and
guarantee of the first amendment rights consistent with the protection of the
public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the village of West
Dundee. (Ord. 2006-46, 9-11-2006)
3-8-3: APPROVAL REQUIRED:
No special event may be conducted on any public or private property without
first obtaining approval as provided herein.
Special events sponsored and conducted by not for profit corporations or
associations either solely or in conjunction with other such corporations or
associations or with a public body or sponsored and conducted by other persons
conducting noncommercial civic, religious, recreational or patriotic events may
be conducted upon public or private property subject to the provisions and
restrictions contained herein.
For profit businesses or organizations conducting events designed to encourage
the gathering of people and defined as either "assembly", "parade", "mall
special event", "merchant organized events", or "special event" in section
3-8-1 of this chapter may be conducted upon public or private property subject
to the provisions and restrictions contained herein. (Ord. 2006-46, 9-11-2006)
3-8-4: APPROVAL APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Information Required: Persons who want to conduct a special event upon
public or private property shall file an application, available from the
village hall, with the village manager. Applications requiring board approval
shall be submitted not less than sixty (60) days prior to the event.
Applications requiring village staff approval shall be submitted thirty (30)
days prior to the special event. Applications for a residential block party
shall be submitted not less than twenty one (21) business days prior to the
event. Such application shall include the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the sponsor and the name,
address and telephone number of the sponsor's representatives who will manage
or direct the special event and who will be present during the event;
      2.   The dates and hours of the special event;
      3.   The exact location of the event; if the special event is a parade,
the route to be followed shall be provided;
      4.   The nature of the event;
      5.   The activities to be conducted;
      6.   The estimated number of persons who will attend;
      7.   Whether tents or other temporary structures will be used;
      8.   Whether or not electricity and water will be needed and the manner
in which they will be provided;
      9.   Whether toilets or other sanitary facilities are to be provided;
      10.   Whether barricades, cones or other village equipment is being
requested and, if so, what equipment;
      11.   Statement on what litter facilities will be provided, litter
control plans and litter cleanup;
      12.   Statement as to other types of licenses and permits, including a
daily liquor permit, that have been or will be applied for; and
      13.   Insurance obtained or to be obtained for the special event.
   B.   Review And Issuance: Special events shall be approved by the president
and village board of trustees with exception of previously approved annual
events without special liquor or raffle consideration, park district events,
block parties, car washes, and merchant organized events for single or two (2)
retail establishments combined which shall be approved by the office of the
village manager.
Garage and yard sales (single and neighborhood), private parties with or
without outside amplification, church or school rummage sales, bake sales or
similar events, groundbreaking events, church sponsored summer camps or
interior mall events that do not expect to draw crowds of over one thousand
(1,000) people in excess of regular shopping patrons are exempt from approval
requirements.
Upon receipt of a completed application for a special event approval, the
village manager or his designee shall immediately process the application as
appropriately determined and:
      1.   Will grant approval contingent upon submission of evidence of
adequate insurance as determined by the village and upon payment of the
estimated cost of additional police, fire and/or public works services required
by section
3-8-5 of this chapter;
      2.   Will deny approval based upon the criteria set forth in subsection C
of this section; or
      3.   Will require a conference with the applicant to seek clarification
or offer suggestions as to alterations in the application. If the proposed
special event does not comply with village rules and regulations, the village
president and board of trustees may recommend alternative locations, times or
other conditions. The sponsor may either accept the recommendations or submit a
new application that complies with the issues raised by the village and board
of trustees.
   C.   Application Denial: The village president and board of trustees is
empowered to deny approval of a special event only if, based upon the completed
application and such clarification or alteration of the application received
from the applicant, the special event:
      1.   Will fail to comply with noise, health or safety regulations of the
village or otherwise violate applicable ordinance or state statute;
      2.   Will unreasonably interfere with or restrict the delivery of village
or emergency services or business or residential activity within the proposed
event area, on the proposed event route or other areas of the village;
      3.   Will unreasonably conflict in time or location with other permitted
activities in the proposed event area or proposed event route;
      4.   Will damage or destroy village property.
In addition to the foregoing, the village president and board of trustees may
deny approval of a special event if the sponsor fails to attend a conference as
required by subsection B3 of this section or has repeatedly violated the
ordinances of the village with respect to special events within the past twelve
(12) month period.
      5.   Any material misrepresentations made by the applicant shall be the
basis for denial or revocation of the special event approval. (Ord. 2006-46, 9-
11-2006)
3-8-5: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Insurance: Upon application for approval of a special event, the
sponsor shall provide the village manager with a certificate of insurance
evidencing adequate insurance including such overages and limits as the village
determines are reasonable and necessary for such activity. All such insurance
shall name the village as an additional primary, noncontributory insured. Such
insurance shall not be required for residential block parties and noncommercial
expressive activities protected under the first amendment of the constitution
of the United States.
   B.   Village Services: Prior to receiving approval of a special event the
sponsor shall provide the payment of the cost estimated by the village of the
direct and reasonable costs that will be incurred by the village to provide
additional police, fire and public works services for the special event.
However, such payment shall not be required for residential block parties and
noncommercial expressive activities protected under the first amendment of the
constitution of the United States. In the event the actual amount of the
additional police, fire and/or public works services incurred for any event
exceeds the amount of the deposit, the village will send the sponsor a bill for
the additional amount within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the event.
Within thirty (30) days after the date of the bill, the sponsor shall pay to
the village said additional costs. In the event the deposit exceeds the actual
amount of the additional police, fire and public works costs incurred, the
village will return the balance within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of
the special event.
   C.   Cleanup: Within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of the permitted
special event, the sponsor shall remit to the village the direct and reasonable
costs required to provide for cleanup of the property if such service is not
performed by the sponsor. Additionally, the amount of payment shall include
compensation for loss or damage to village property.
   D.   Contract Required: Upon receipt of notification of approval of a
special event the sponsor consents to the formation of a contract between the
sponsor and the village for payment of village services and equipment as set
forth in this section. (Ord. 2006-46, 9-11-2006)
3-8-6: ALCOHOL SALE AND CONSUMPTION:
When the sale of alcoholic liquor is planned for a special event, the sponsor
shall be responsible for applying and obtaining a daily liquor permit pursuant
to chapter 2, "Liquor Control", of this title. Upon application of a daily
liquor permit the sponsor shall provide the village with a certificate of
insurance evidencing adequate insurance including such overages and limits as
the village determines are reasonable and necessary for such activity. All such
insurance shall name the village as an additional primary, noncontributing
insured. (Ord. 2006-46, 9-11-2006)
3-8-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF SPONSOR:
The sponsor shall be strictly liable for the acts of its agents, volunteers,
officers and employees and shall indemnify and hold harmless the village, its
officers, agents and employees from any claim, suit or liability whatsoever
including, but not limited to, any court costs or reasonable attorney fees
arising out of or in any way connected with any acts or omissions of sponsor,
its agents, volunteers, officers and employees, or the special event.
Nothing herein shall relieve a sponsor, its officers, agents and employees as
well as any other participants, such as restaurants, in any special event from
complying with all applicable laws and regulations of the village, state, and
the United States, including, but not limited to, obtaining any other permits
or approvals as required by law. (Ord. 2006-46, 9-11-2006)
3-8-8: REVOCATION OF APPROVAL; APPEALS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this code, if in the judgment of
the village manager, the chief of police, the fire chief, or the director of
public works, or their designees, an emergency situation has been created such
that the continued use of public or private property by an event sponsor or
participants will immediately threaten life, health or property, the village
manager, the chief of police, the fire chief, or the director of public works,
or their designees, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for
such conclusion and without notice or hearing may immediately revoke approval
and require the use of public or private property immediately cease. No person
shall continue to use public or private property contrary to such order.
   B.   The decision of the village manager, chief of police, fire chief or the
director of public works, or their designees, to revoke approval required by
this chapter shall be appealable by the sponsor to the village president and
board of trustees. Such appeal shall be initiated by a written notice to the
village president and board of trustees before the close of the next regular
village business day after the date of service of such revocation, or such
appeal shall be deemed waived. The sponsor shall be given an opportunity to be
heard by the village president and board of trustees upon such revocation
within three (3) business days after receipt of any such notice of appeal. The
village president and board of trustees may sustain or reverse the decision of
the village manager, chief of police, fire chief, or director of public works,
or their designees, based on the criteria as set forth in subsection
3-8-4C of this chapter. Such decision shall be made by the village president
and board of trustees before the close of the next village regular business day
following the conclusion of any such hearing. The sponsor shall receive written
notice of the village president and board of trustees' decision, which decision
shall be a final decision for the purpose of administrative review. (Ord. 2006-
46, 9-11-2006)
CHAPTER 9
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Tax Imposed
3-9-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-9-4: Returns To Department
3-9-5: Resellers
3-9-6: Severability
3-9-7: Effective Date
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross
charges" for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this municipality, charges for the channel mileage between each
channel point within this municipality, and charges for that portion of the
interstate interoffice channel provided within Illinois. However, "gross
charge" shall not include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this chapter, 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, 4) 911 surcharges, or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of such
municipality;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this chapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this chapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this chapter. For purposes of this chapter,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act. (Ord. 03-07A, 3-31-2003)
3-9-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all of the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such
other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this state.
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (Ord. 03-07A, 3-31-2003)
3-9-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 03-07A, 3-31-2003)
3-9-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
On or before August 31, 2003, and on or before the last day of every month
thereafter, the tax imposed under this chapter on telecommunication retailers
shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required by the
department pursuant to the Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax
act (public act 92-526, section 5-50) and any accompanying rules and
regulations created by the department to implement the act. (Ord. 03-07A, 3-31-
2003)
3-9-5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of originating
or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax free on the
grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active resale
number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 03-07A, 3-31-2003)
3-9-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of this
chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 03-
07A, 3-31-2003)
3-9-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and publication as required by law, provided, however, that the tax
provided for herein shall take effect for all bills issued on or after July 1,
2003. Copies of ordinance 03-07A shall be certified and sent to the Illinois
department of revenue prior to April 1, 2003. (Ord. 03-07A, 3-31-2003)
CHAPTER 10
ADULT BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: License Required
3-10-3: Application For License
3-10-4: Standards For Issuance Of License
3-10-5: License Fees
3-10-6: Display Of License
3-10-7: Renewal Of License
3-10-8: Revocation Of License
3-10-9: Employees
3-10-10: Physical Layout Of Adult Business
3-10-11: Responsibilities Of The Operator
3-10-12: Exclusions
3-10-13: Enforcement
3-10-14: Penalties And Prosecution
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
   ADULT BUSINESS: Any establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade or business activity in a use such as, but not
limited to, the following: adults only bookstores, adults only motion picture
theaters, adult entertainment centers, rap parlors, adults only nightclubs or
adults only saunas, where explicit sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual
activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: See definition of Adult Business.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER: An enclosed building or part of an enclosed
building, which contains one or more coin operated mechanisms which when
activated permit a customer to view a live person nude or in such attire,
costume or clothing as to expose to view the human male or female genitalia;
pubic hair; buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; or, female breast, at or
below the areola thereof. In addition, the viewing of a live person, in the
above described manner, after paying of any admission or fee for the viewing of
same activity.
   ADULTS ONLY: Any items or activities emphasizing, depicting, describing or
relating to nudity, explicit sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity.
   ADULTS ONLY BOOKSTORE: An adults only establishment having as a substantial
or significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale
or viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or other coin operated
means, and other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their
principal emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to nudity,
explicit sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual, homosexual or
otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity. An establishment, having
adults only items as a substantial or significant portion of its stock, that
sells or displays adults only items for sale to patrons therein.
   ADULTS ONLY MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building used regularly and
routinely for presenting adults only material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to nudity, explicit
sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual, homosexual or otherwise),
bestiality or sadomasochistic activity, for observation by patron therein.
   ADULTS ONLY NIGHTCLUB: An establishment or place either occasionally or
primarily in the business of featuring topless dancers, go-go dancers, exotic
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar entertainers, where
explicit sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or
implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
   ADULTS ONLY SAUNA: An establishment or place primarily in the business of
providing a steam bath and/or massage services, where explicit sexual conduct
is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or
tolerated.
   BOOTH: Any enclosure that is specifically offered to patrons of an adult
business for the private viewing of any adults only item or movie. Said
definition does not include enclosures that are used as private offices by any
operator, employee or agent for attending to the tasks of their employment and
are not offered for use by the public.
   CUBICLE: See definition of Booth.
   DOOR: Full, complete, nontransparent closure device that obscures the view
or activity taking place within the enclosure.
   NIGHTCLUB: An establishment serving food and/or liquor and providing music
and space for dancing by patrons only. A nightclub shall not include an "adult
business".
   NUDITY: The display of the human male or female genitalia; pubic hair;
buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; female breast, at or below the
areola thereof, with no covering or with a less than fully opaque covering; or,
male genitalia, in a discernible turgid state, with or without covering.
   OBSCENE: Any material or performance is obscene if: a) the average person,
applying contemporary adult community standards, would find that, taken as a
whole, it appeals to the prurient interest; and b) the average person, applying
contemporary adult community standards, would find that it depicts or
describes, in a patently offensive way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic
sexual acts, whether normal or perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation,
excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the genitals; and c) taken as a
whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value 1 .
   OPERATOR: For purposes of an "adult business", as defined herein, any person
(whether said person be an individual, partner, corporation, joint stock
company, fiduciary, officer, director, stockholder, employee, or manager),
which conducts, maintains or owns any adult business.
   PATRON: For purposes of an "adult business", as defined herein, any
customer, patron or visitor to an adult business who is not employed by any
operator of said establishment.
   RAP PARLOR: An establishment or place primarily in the business of providing
nonprofessional conversation or similar services for adults, where explicit
sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly
encouraged or tolerated.
   ROOM: See definition of Booth.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ACTIVITY: Flagellation or torture by or upon a nude person;
a person clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume. In addition, the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained with the
intent to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or the recipient.
   SELL: Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: Ultimate sex acts (whether autoerotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity. In addition,
physical contact, intended to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or
the recipient, with a person's unclothed genitalia, buttocks, perineum, anal or
pubic regions, or female breast.
   UNDERAGE: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age, the legally minimum
age at which one can purchase or view adults only items 2 .
   WALL SIGN: Any flat sign which is placed against a building or other
structure and attached thereto in such manner that only one side is visible.
(Ord. 98-27, 9-14-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
2 2. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
3-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection D of this section, from and after the
effective date of this chapter, no adult business shall be operated or
maintained in the village without first obtaining a license to operate issued
by the village.
   B.   A license may be issued in accordance with the zoning provisions of
title 10 of this code only for one adult business located at a fixed and
certain place. Any person, partnership or corporation which desires to operate
more than one adult business must have a license for each.
   C.   No license or interest in a license may be transferred to any person,
partnership or corporation.
   D.   All adult businesses existing at the time of the passage of this
chapter must submit an application for a license within one hundred ten (110)
days of the passage of this chapter. If an application is not received within
said one hundred ten (110) day period, then such existing adult business shall
cease operations. (Ord. 98-27, 9-14-1998)
3-10-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Any person, partnership or corporation desiring to secure a license
shall make application to the village manager. The application shall be filed
in triplicate with and dated by the village manager. A copy of the application
shall be distributed promptly by the village manager to the police department.
   B.   The application for a license shall be upon a form provided by the
village manager. An applicant for a license, which shall include all partners
or limited partners of a partnership applicant, and all officers or directors
of a corporate applicant and all stockholders holding more than five percent
(5%) of the stock of a corporate applicant or any other person who is
interested directly in the ownership or operation of the business, shall
furnish the following information under oath:
      1.   Name and address, including all aliases.
      2.   Written proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years of
age.
      3.   All residential addresses of the applicant for the past ten (10)
years.
      4.   The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair.
      5.   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for ten (10)
years immediately preceding the date of application.
      6.   Whether the applicant previously operated in this or any other
county, village or state under an adult business license or similar business
license; whether the applicant has ever had such a license revoked or
suspended, the reason therefor, and the business entity or trade name under
which the applicant operated that was subject to the suspension or revocation.
      7.   All criminal statutes, whether federal or state, or village
ordinance violation convictions, forfeiture of bond and pleadings of nolo
contendere on all charges, except minor traffic violations.
      8.   Fingerprints and two (2) portrait photographs at least two inches by
two inches (2" x 2") of the applicant.
      9.   The address of the adult business establishment to be operated by
the applicant.
      10.   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall specify
the name of the corporation, the date and state of incorporation, the name and
address of the registered agent.
   C.   Within twenty one (21) days of receiving an application for a license
the village manager shall notify the applicant whether the application is
granted or denied.
   D.   Whenever an application is denied, the village manager shall advise the
applicant in writing of the reasons for such action. If the applicant requests
a hearing within ten (10) days of receipt of notification of denial, a public
hearing shall be held within ten (10) days thereafter before the village board,
as hereinafter provided.
   E.   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information relevant to
the investigation of the application or his or her refusal or failure to appear
at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding said
application or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with any
investigation required by this chapter shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he or she is ineligible for such license and shall be grounds
for denial thereof by the village manager. (Ord. 98-27, 9-14-1998)
3-10-4: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   To receive a license to operate an adult business, an applicant must
meet the following standards:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual:
         a.   The applicant shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
         b.   The applicant shall not have been convicted of, pleaded no
contest or stipulated to the facts involving a felony or any crime involving
moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in
any jurisdiction within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the
application.
         c.   The applicant shall not have been found to have previously
violated this chapter within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of
the application.
      2.   If the applicant is a corporation:
         a.   All officers, directors and stockholders required to be named
under subsection
3-10-3B10 of this chapter shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
         b.   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under
subsection
3-10-3B10 of this chapter shall have been convicted of, pleaded no contest or
stipulated to the facts involving a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in any
jurisdiction within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the
application.
         c.   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under
subsection
3-10-3B10 of this chapter shall have been found to have previously violated
this chapter within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the
application.
      3.   If the applicant is a partnership, joint venture or any other type
of organization where two (2) or more persons have a financial interest:
         a.   All persons having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall be at least eighteen (18) years of
age.
         b.   No persons having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been convicted of, pleaded no
contest or stipulated to the facts involving a felony or any crime involving
moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in
any jurisdiction within five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the
application.
         c.   No person having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been found to have violated
any provision of this chapter within five (5) years immediately preceding the
date of the application.
   B.   No license shall be issued unless the police department has
investigated the qualifications of the applicant to be licensed. The results of
that investigation shall be filed in writing with the village manager no later
than fourteen (14) days after the date of the application. (Ord. 98-27, 9-14-
1998)
3-10-5: LICENSE FEES:
A license fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be submitted with
the application for a license. If the application is denied, one-half (1/2) of
the fee shall be returned. License fees paid less than twelve (12) months prior
to renewal shall not be prorated. (Ord. 98-27, 9-14-1998)
3-10-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The license shall be displayed in a conspicuous public place in the adult
business such that it may be readily seen by a person entering the premises.
(Ord. 98-27, 9-14-1998)
3-10-7: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate on April
30 of each year unless sooner revoked, and must be renewed before operation is
allowed in the following year. Any operator desiring to renew a license shall
make application to the village manager. The application for renewal must be
filed no later than sixty (60) days before the license expires. The application
for renewal shall be filed in triplicate with and dated by the village manager.
A copy of the application for renewal shall be distributed promptly by the
village manager to the police department and to the operator. The application
for renewal shall be upon a form provided by the village manager and shall
contain such information and data, given under oath or affirmation, as is
required for an application for a new license.
   B.   A license renewal fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be
submitted with the application for renewal. In addition to the renewal fee, a
late penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be assessed against the
applicant who files for a renewal less than sixty (60) days before the license
expires. If the application is denied, one-half (1/2) of the total fees
collected shall be returned.
   C.   If the police department is aware of any information bearing on the
operator's qualifications, that information shall be filed in writing with the
village manager. (Ord. 98-27, 9-14-1998)
3-10-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The village board shall revoke a license for any of the following
reasons:
      1.   Discovery that false or misleading information or data was given on
any application or material facts were omitted from any application.
      2.   The operator or any employee of the operator, violates any provision
of this chapter or any rule or regulation adopted by the village pursuant to
this chapter; provided, however, that in the case of a first offense by an
operator where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the penalty shall
not exceed a suspension of thirty (30) days if the village board shall find
that the operator had no actual or constructive knowledge of such violation and
could not by the exercise of due diligence have had such actual or constructive
knowledge.
      3.   The operator becomes ineligible to obtain a license.
      4.   Any cost or fee required to be paid by this chapter is not paid.
      5.   Any alcoholic liquor is served or consumed on the premises of the
adult business.
      6.   Violation of any village ordinance, code or regulation and failure
to pay the required fine or penalty or failure to cure the violations.
      7.   The transfer of a license or any interest in a license.
   B.   The village board, before revoking or suspending any license, shall
give the operator at least ten (10) days' written notice of the charges against
him, and the opportunity for a public hearing before the village board.
   C.   Any operator whose license is revoked shall not be eligible to receive
a license for one year from the date of revocation. No location or premises for
which a license has been issued shall be used as an adult business for six (6)
months from the date of revocation of the license. (Ord. 98-27, 9-14-1998)
3-10-9: EMPLOYEES:
It shall be unlawful for any adult business licensee or his manager or employee
to employ in any capacity within the adult business any person who is not at
least eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 98-27, 9-14-1998)
3-10-10: PHYSICAL LAYOUT OF ADULT BUSINESS:
   A.   Any adult business having available for customers, patrons or members,
any booth, room or cubicle for the private viewing of any adult entertainment
must comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Access: Each booth, room or cubicle shall be totally accessible to
and from aisles and public areas of the adult business, and shall be
unobstructed by any door, lock or other control type devices.
      2.   Construction: Every booth, room or cubicle shall meet the following
construction requirements.
         a.   Each booth, room or cubicle shall be separated from adjacent
booths, rooms and cubicles and any nonpublic areas by a wall.
         b.   Have at least one side totally open to a public lighted aisle so
that there is an unobstructed view at all times of anyone occupying same.
         c.   All walls shall be solid and without any openings, extended from
the floor to a height of not less than six feet (6') and be light colored,
nonabsorbent, smooth textured and easily cleanable.
         d.   The floor must be light colored, nonabsorbent, smooth textured
and easily cleanable.
         e.   The lighting level of each booth, room or cubicle, when not in
use shall be a minimum of ten (10) foot-candles at all times, as measured from
the floor.
      3.   Occupants: Only one individual shall occupy a booth, room or cubicle
at any time. No occupant of same shall engage in any type of sexual activity,
cause any bodily discharge or litter while in the booth. No individual shall
damage or deface any portion of the booth.
   B.   Any "adult business" as defined herein which features dancers or other
entertainers or forms of entertainment, must comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   All dancing or other entertainment shall occur on a platform
intended for that purpose which is raised at least two feet (2') from the level
of the floor.
      2.   No dancing or other entertainment shall occur closer than ten feet
(10') to any patron.
      3.   No dancer or other entertainer shall fondle or caress any patron and
no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer or other entertainer.
      4.   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity or tip to any
dancer or other entertainer and no dancer or other entertainer shall directly
or indirectly solicit any pay or gratuity or tip from any patron. (Ord. 98-27,
9-14-1998)
3-10-11: RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OPERATOR:
   A.   The operator shall maintain a register of all employees, showing the
name and aliases used by the employee, home address, age, birth date, sex,
height, weight, color of hair and eyes, phone numbers, social security number,
date of employment and termination and duties of each employee. The above
information on each employee shall be maintained in the register on the
premises for a period of three (3) years following termination.
   B.   The operator shall make the register of employees available immediately
for inspection upon demand of a member of the police department at all
reasonable times.
   C.   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
if such act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the operator, or as a result of the operator's negligent failure to
supervise the employee's conduct, and the operator shall be punishable for such
act or omission in the same manner as if the operator committed the act or
caused the omission.
   D.   Any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
for purposes of determining whether the operator's license shall be revoked,
suspended or renewed.
   E.   No employee of an adult business shall allow any minor to loiter around
or to frequent an adult business.
   F.   The operator shall maintain the premises in a clean and sanitary manner
at all times.
   G.   The operator shall maintain at least ten (10) foot-candles of light in
the public portions of the establishment, including aisles, at all times.
However, if a lesser level of illumination in the aisles shall be necessary to
enable a patron to view the adult entertainment in a booth, room or cubicle
adjoining an aisle, a lesser amount of illumination may be maintained in such
aisles, provided, however, at no time shall there be less than one foot-candle
of illumination in said aisles, as measured from the floor.
   H.   The operator shall ensure compliance of the establishment and its
patrons with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 98-27, 9-14-1998)
3-10-12: EXCLUSIONS:
All private schools and public schools, as defined in the Illinois Compiled
Statutes, located within the village are exempt from obtaining a license
hereunder when instructing pupils in sex education as part of their curriculum.
(Ord. 98-27, 9-14-1998)
3-10-13: ENFORCEMENT:
The police department shall have the authority to enter any adult business at
all reasonable times to inspect the premises and enforce this chapter. (Ord.
98-27, 9-14-1998)
3-10-14: PENALTIES AND PROSECUTION:
   A.   Any person, partnership or corporation who is found to have violated
this chapter shall be fined not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per offense plus costs of
prosecution incurred by the village including reasonable attorney fees and
shall result in the revocation of any license.
   B.   Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense,
and any violation continuing more than one day shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. 98-27, 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 11
MASSAGE THERAPY CLINIC
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definitions
3-11-2: License Required
3-11-3: Exemptions
3-11-4: Application For Clinic License
3-11-5: Application Processing
3-11-6: Transfer, Changes In Ownership Or Management
3-11-7: Limitation On Issuance And Review Of License
3-11-8: Fees
3-11-9: Expiration Of License; Renewal
3-11-10: Facilities
3-11-11: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-11-12: Premises Restrictions
3-11-13: Notice Of Revocation, Suspension Or Refusal Of A License
3-11-14: Revocation Or Suspension Of A License
3-11-15: Appeal
3-11-16: Penalty For Violation
3-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words or phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them below,
unless otherwise indicated by the context:
   MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages
in the practice of massage therapy and is licensed by the Illinois department
of financial and professional regulation.
   MASSAGE THERAPY CLINIC: Any place of business having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of "therapeutic massage" as defined
herein where a licensed massage therapist administers therapeutic massage or
from where a massage therapist is dispatched to administer "therapeutic
massage" as defined herein. A massage therapy clinic may be located within a
massage therapist's home, provided it is in compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other ordinances of the village.
   MASSAGE THERAPY LICENSE: A valid massage therapy license issued by the
Illinois department of financial and professional regulations.
   PATRON: Any person who receives a massage under such circumstances that it
is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or give other
consideration therefor.
   SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: Includes the genitals, pubic area, anus, or perineum
of any person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE: Scientific healthcare, health maintenance and
rehabilitation techniques applied to a client by a trained and professionally
licensed massage therapist for the purpose of causing increased circulation
throughout the body, ridding the body of waste products and/or toxins, inducing
relaxation, easing mental and physical tension, alleviating aches and pains,
and the breakup of fatty tissues, adhesions, scar tissue and muscle spasm, and
releasing the body's endorphins. Such techniques are provided under
circumstances where it is reasonably expected that the client, or a third party
acting on the client's behalf, will pay money or give other consideration
therefor.
Therapeutic massage may include, but is not limited to, joint mobilization
techniques, stretches, effleurage (stroking), petrissage (kneading), tapotement
(percussion), compression, vibration, friction, nerve strokes and any
reasonable method of pressure on the external soft parts of the body with the
hands, elbows or forearms, or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical
apparatus or appliances, with or without rubbing alcohol, liniments,
antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointments or other similar
preparations commonly used in this practice. Therapeutic massage does not
diagnose or treat classified diseases, practice spinal manipulation or
prescribe medicine or drugs. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
3-11-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, firm or corporation
to charge for the practice or administering of any method of treatment listed
in this chapter without first obtaining and maintaining a valid massage
therapist license from the state of Illinois.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, firm or corporation
to operate a massage therapy clinic in the village without a valid and current
license issued by the village pursuant to the terms of this chapter. A separate
license shall be required for each massage therapy clinic location regardless
of whether such multiple clinics are operated by the same person, association,
firm or corporation. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
3-11-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The licensing requirements of this chapter shall not be applicable to:
   A.   Hospitals, nursing homes and persons holding an unrevoked certificate
to practice the healing arts under the laws of the Illinois department of
professional regulation, including, but not limited to, chiropractors,
naprapaths, nurses, occupational therapists, physical therapists and
physicians.
   B.   Any barber, cosmetologist or nail technician lawfully carrying on their
respective business to the extent authorized under a valid unrevoked license or
certificate or registration issued by the state. Provided, this exemption is
only intended to permit normal and customary barber, cosmetologist or nail
technician services which involve incidental physical contact, such as scalp
rubs and facials, which otherwise qualify as massage activities. This exemption
is not intended to include, and does not permit, general massage activities as
part of any barber, cosmetologist or nail technician business beyond that
authorized by the state license or certification.
   C.   Any state registered athletic trainer who administers such athletic
related massage in the normal course of training duties.
   D.   A business which employs or includes not more than one massage
therapist shall not be required to apply for or obtain a massage therapy clinic
license. Such exempt business must be located in a structure which contains no
more than one room where massage activities are performed. Except for
businesses which operate separate and distinct hours of operation, such exempt
businesses must also be the sole massage activity within such structure. Under
no circumstances shall more than two (2) exempt businesses be permitted in any
structure. Provided further, a massage therapist's license shall be required
for the individual massage therapist performing massage activities in such
exempted business.
   E.   Where massage services are actually performed at the patron's premises,
including the patron's place of business or residence, a massage therapy clinic
license shall not be required for such patron's premises. However, a massage
therapist's license shall be required for the massage therapist performing
massage activities in such patron's premises. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-
1-2005)
3-11-4: APPLICATION FOR CLINIC LICENSE:
Any person desiring to obtain a license to operate a massage therapy clinic
shall make application to the village manager. The village manager shall have
the right to confirm any of the information asked for, or provided in the
application, and shall work in conjunction with the police department where
applicable. Applications shall include the following:
   A.   The name (including nicknames or aliases) and address, telephone
number, social security number and age of the applicant; the registered agent
of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation; and the general or managing
partners if the applicant is a partnership.
   B.   The location of the massage therapy clinic.
   C.   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant as provided in
this section. If the applicant is a corporation, such statement shall include
applicant's officers, and directors thereof, and any stockholder or
stockholders owning in the aggregate more than twenty percent (20%) of the
stock of such corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, such statement
shall include all general partners, and any limited partner owning more than
twenty percent (20%) of the aggregate limited partner interest in such
partnership. Such listing shall include the following:
      1.   Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or other sex
offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-6 et seq., as
amended.
      2.   A felony based upon conduct or involvement in such business or
activity or related or similar business or activity, within the past eleven
(11) years; or
      3.   A felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in such business or
activity or related to similar business or activity, but which felony involved
the use of a deadly weapon, violations of the cannabis control act 1  or the
controlled substance act 2  or violence against another person, including rape,
within the past five (5) years; or
      4.   A misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation, based upon conduct
or involvement in such business or activity or related or similar business or
activity, within the past two (2) years.
   D.   A description of the proposed massage therapy clinic, including the
number of massage therapists, other activities or business conducted at the
same location, and the physical facilities to be used, with a floor layout
diagram of same attached thereto.
   E.   A statement of whether the business will be conducted by a manager. In
such case the manager's name, address, telephone number and age shall be
provided, along with a statement of any convictions as set forth in this
section.
   F.   A current certificate of inspection of the premises from the Kane
County department of health, if required.
   G.   The license fee as provided in section
3-11-8 of this chapter.
   H.   Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for three (3) years
immediately preceding the date of application.
   I.   In the event the applicant is made aware that any information or
document submitted as part of this application process is inaccurate or
incomplete, applicant shall immediately notify the village and provide
appropriate corrections. Failure to accurately and completely provide, or as
necessary update, required information, may delay the processing of such
application or result in its denial.
   J.   Proof of United States citizenship, permanent resident alien status or
a valid work permit, as well as proof of professional liability insurance in an
amount of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per each
occurrence. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
2 2. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
3-11-5: APPLICATION PROCESSING:
   A.   An application shall not be considered proper or filed until all
information and material required of the applicant pursuant to section
 3-11-4 of this chapter has been submitted.
   B.   Upon receipt of a proper application, the village manager, along with
the police department or designee, shall investigate the information contained
in the application and shall determine compliance with all applicable laws of
the village. The nature and scope of the investigation shall be within the
discretion of the village manager and the police department, and shall include,
but is not limited to, a criminal history background check and premises
inspection. The applicant for a massage therapy clinic license shall allow the
building code enforcement officer to inspect the premises and/or review plans
for the facility, to ascertain whether the premises and/or planned changes are
in conformance with the village building code. In the event plans are submitted
prior to construction, a final inspection will be conducted prior to issuance
of the license to assure compliance with said building code.
   C.   The investigation, including any required inspections and background
checks, shall be completed within thirty five (35) business days after receipt
of a proper application. Provided, the village manager may extend this
investigation period an additional period, not to exceed an additional eleven
(11) business days, upon a finding that such additional period is needed to
properly complete the investigation. Provided, whenever such extension period
is invoked, written notice shall be provided to the applicant along with the
specific reasons for such extension.
   D.   If, within eleven (11) business days following completion of the
investigation, the village manager determines that the applicant and premises
are in compliance with the applicable laws of the village and the state, the
village manager shall issue the license.
   E.   If, within eleven (11) business days following completion of the
investigation, the village manager determines that the applicant or premises
are not in compliance with the applicable laws of the village and the state,
the village manager shall notify the applicant in writing that the license has
been denied, setting forth the reasons therefor, and advising the applicant of
his or her right to appeal pursuant to section
3-11-15 of this chapter. Unless a timely appeal has been filed as provided in
section
 3-11-15 of this chapter, such denials shall be final and effective on the
eleventh day following service of the notice on the applicant. The fee paid by
the applicant pursuant to section
3-11-8 of this chapter, shall be returned, less fifty dollars ($50.00) which
will be retained as the processing fee. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
3-11-6: TRANSFER, CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP OR MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be applicable only to
the specific applicant and location designated, and may not be sold,
transferred or otherwise assigned. Provided, where the licensee remains the
same, but a request is made to designate and substitute a different location,
the village manager may approve such new location upon submission of proof that
such location is in compliance with the provisions of section
3-11-10 of this chapter. A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be required for
processing such location.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter, a transfer of ownership or control of a
massage therapy clinic shall mean the sale, lease or sublease of the business,
the transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in the
business whether by sale, exchange or similar means, or the establishment of a
trust, gift or other similar legal devise which transfers the ownership or
control of the business, except for transfer by bequest or other operation of
law upon the death of the person possessing the ownership or control, or any
person not previously listed as an applicant pursuant to section
3-11-4 of this chapter acquires an ownership interest in the business of twenty
percent (20%) or more.
   C.   A transfer of ownership or control of a massage therapy clinic shall
constitute change in the licensee and the existing license shall be deemed
surrendered and extinguished. A new application and license shall be filed and
processed as provided in section
 3-11-4 of this chapter prior to such transfer taking effect. Any transfer in
the ownership or control of a massage therapy clinic in violation of this
section shall constitute operation of such business without a license.
   D.   Notice shall be provided prior to any change of the designated manager
conducting business for the massage therapy clinic as provided in section
3-11-4 of this chapter. The licensee shall, not less than eleven (11) business
days before such change is to take effect, give the village manager written
notice of such change. The notice shall include any information concerning the
new manager which is required in section
3-11-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
3-11-7: LIMITATION ON ISSUANCE AND REVIEW OF LICENSE:
No massage therapy clinic license shall be issued or renewed under the
following circumstances:
   A.   To an applicant who has been convicted of the following offenses:
      1.   Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or sex
offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-6 et seq., as
amended; or
      2.   A felony based upon conduct or involvement in such business or
activity or related or similar business or activity, within the past eleven
(11) years; or
      3.   A felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in such business or
activity or related to similar business or activity, but which felony involved
the use of a deadly weapon, violations of the cannabis control act 1  or the
controlled substance act 2  or violence against another person, including rape,
within the past five (5) years; or
      4.   A misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation, based upon conduct
or involvement in such business or activity or related or similar business or
activity, within the past two (2) years.
   B.   To an applicant whose license issued under this chapter has been
revoked for cause.
   C.   To an applicant who at the time of application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   D.   To an applicant under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   E.   To an applicant where grounds for revocation exist as provided under
section
3-11-14 of this chapter.
   F.   In addition to the provisions stated hereinabove, no massage therapy
clinic license shall be issued or renewed under the following circumstances:
      1.   To a partnership, if any general partner thereof, or any limited
partner owning more than twenty percent (20%) of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such partnership, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder.
      2.   To a corporation, if any officer or director, or any stockholder or
stockholders owning in aggregate more than twenty percent (20%) of the stock of
such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder.
      3.   To a corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it
is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the business corporation act
of 1983 3  to transact business in Illinois.
      4.   To any applicant whose place of business is conducted by a manager
unless the manager possesses the same qualifications required by the licensee.
      5.   To any applicant who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
   G.   To an applicant who is not a United States citizen or has status as a
permanent resident alien or a valid work permit. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff.
1-1-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
2 2. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
3 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq., as amended.
3-11-8: FEES:
The fee for a massage therapy clinic license required by section
3-11-4 of this chapter shall be one hundred ten dollars ($110.00) and such
license shall be valid for three (3) years. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-
2005)
3-11-9: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; RENEWAL:
   A.   Each license shall expire at the end of three (3) years on December 31
and may be renewed only by making application as provided in section
3-11-4 of this chapter. Provided, in lieu of full submittal, an applicant may,
on forms provided by the village, certify that the information previously
provided remains true and valid. This renewal application shall be processed as
provided in section
3-11-5 of this chapter. Application for renewal should be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date, and when made less than thirty (30) days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be affected.
Renewal applications for massage therapy clinic licenses shall be obtained from
the village manager's office.
   B.   When the village manager denies renewal of a license, the applicant
shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. Provided,
if subsequent to denial the village manager finds that the basis for denial of
the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted
a license. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
3-11-10: FACILITIES:
No license, or renewal thereof, shall be issued to conduct a massage therapy
clinic unless an inspection, conducted by the village manager, or his designee,
confirms that the clinic complies with the following minimum requirements.
Renewal of a license may require reinspections by the village manager or his
designee.
   A.   Hot and cold running water shall be provided.
   B.   Adequate private dressing and toilet facilities shall be provided for
patrons.
   C.   All walls, ceilings, floors, steam rooms and other physical facilities
shall be kept in good repair, and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
   D.   Clean and sanitary towels and linens shall be provided for each client
receiving massage services. No common use of towels or linens shall be
permitted.
   E.   When any license shall have been revoked for cause, no license shall be
granted to any person for the period of one year thereafter for the conduct of
a massage therapy clinic in the premises described in the revoked license.
(Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
3-11-11: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   No employee or operator shall perform, offer or agree to perform any
act which would require the touching of a patron's genital area.
   B.   The sexual or genital areas of patrons must be covered by
nontransparent towels, clothing, cloths or undergarments at all times while in
a massage therapy clinic premises, except while said patrons are alone in a
washroom, bathroom, shower or clothes changing area, or except when said patron
is receiving lymphatic drainage treatment from a massage therapist having a
minimum of twenty (20) hours of training in such treatment.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowingly, in a massage therapy
clinic to place his or her hand upon, to touch with any part of his or her
body, to fondle in any manner, or to massage, a sexual or genital area of any
other person.
   D.   No person shall administer a therapeutic massage to a patron if the
massage therapist has a skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin
eruption; unless a physician duly licensed by the state certifies in writing
that such massage therapist may safely administer a massage and prescribing the
condition thereof.
   E.   No employee or operator shall administer a therapeutic massage to a
patron exhibiting any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin
eruption; unless a physician duly licensed by the state certifies in writing
that such person may be safely massaged and prescribing the conditions thereof.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise themselves as a
massage therapist without having a valid massage therapist license as defined
in this chapter.
   G.   Any license issued under this chapter shall be displayed in a
conspicuous location within the customer area of a licensed clinic. Massage
therapists shall wear or otherwise display in a conspicuous location within the
customer area their state massage therapy license at all times when they are
performing, or holding themselves out as available to provide any therapeutic
massage. In lieu of this display requirement, when therapeutic massage services
are provided at the patron's location, the state massage therapy license shall
be presented to the customer before such services commence.
   H.   At all times during the hours of operation of a massage therapy clinic
there shall be present a manager or other employee of the licensee who shall
not be less than eighteen (18) years of age.
   I.   No bathroom, bath, shower and/or clothes changing area may be occupied
by more than one person at any time. No massage therapist, massage therapy
clinic owners, managers, employees and/or agents may be in any sauna or
whirlpool while a patron is in same.
   J.   No massage therapy clinic licensee shall employ as a massage therapist
any person unless said person has a valid state massage therapist license.
   K.   It shall be unlawful for any person who holds a license to operate a
massage therapy clinic within the village to fail to comply with the conditions
and regulations set forth in this section or to suffer or permit noncompliance
with such conditions and regulations on or within the licensed premises.
   L.   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, firm or corporation
licensed as provided in this chapter to operate under any name or conduct
business under any designation not specified in such license.
   M.   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, firm or association
licensed under this chapter to provide massage therapy services between the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   N.   A licensee shall have the premises supervised at all times when open
for business. At least one person who is a state licensed massage therapist
shall be on the licensed premises at all times while the establishment is open.
The licensee shall personally supervise the business, or shall delegate such
supervisory responsibility to a manager whose name is listed on the village
license and shall not violate, or permit others to violate, any application
provisions of this chapter. The violation of any provision of this chapter by
any agent or employee of the licensee shall constitute a violation by the
licensee.
   O.   All employees, including massage therapists, shall be clean and wear
clean, nontransparent outer garments, covering at least the entire torso and
the sexual and genital areas as defined herein.
   P.   Licenses shall apply only to the premises described in the application,
and in the license issued thereon, and only one location shall be so described
in each license.
   Q.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall be permitted to come or
remain in the area where the massage activity is taking place on the licensed
premises.
   R.   No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide, keep or consume, or
cause to be sold, given, dispensed, provided, kept or consumed, any alcoholic
beverage on the licensed premises. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
3-11-12: PREMISES RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No massage therapy clinic shall be located on any premises for which a
license to sell alcoholic liquor has been issued.
   B.   The massage therapy clinic premises shall be in compliance with
applicable codes and ordinances of the village, including, but not limited to,
zoning, building, fire and life safety codes.
   C.   When any license has been revoked for cause, no license shall be
granted to any person for the period of one year thereafter for the conduct of
a massage therapy clinic in the premises described in the revoked license.
(Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
3-11-13: NOTICE OF REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR REFUSAL OF A LICENSE:
No license shall be revoked, suspended or refused until the licensee has
received due notice. Said notice shall be served upon the licensee by
delivering the same personally or by leaving such notice at the place of
business or residence of the licensee in the custody of a person fifteen (15)
years of age or older. In the event the licensee cannot be found, and the
service of such notice cannot be otherwise made in the manner herein provided,
a copy of such notice shall be sent by certified mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the licensee at the licensee's place of business or residence at
least eleven (11) business days prior to the date of such hearing. (Ord. 04-35,
12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
3-11-14: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF A LICENSE:
The license of a massage therapy clinic may be revoked or suspended, in
addition to the fines provided for in section
3-11-16 of this chapter, upon one or more of the following grounds:
   A.   The licensee has committed an act(s) of fraud or deceit in the
application for license, or renewal thereof, submitted to the village manager.
   B.   The licensee is engaged in the practice of massage under a false or
assumed name, or is impersonating another massage therapist of a like or
different name.
   C.   The licensee has committed an act of fraudulent, false, misleading or
deceptive advertising, or prescribing medicines, drugs or practices any other
licensed profession without legal authority therefor.
   D.   The licensee has committed an act(s) of prostitution, sexual offense or
trafficking in controlled substances after the date of issuance of a massage
therapy clinic or of a massage therapist license.
   E.   The licensee is found to be in violation of any section of this
chapter.
   F.   The licensee permits acts of prostitution or solicitations for acts of
prostitution to be performed within the premises or elsewhere or permits any
procedure during the performance of services within or off the premises that
are performed for the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification of any patron,
or should reasonably be expected to cause such result, or permits the use or
trafficking of controlled substances or cannabis on the premises, or the
commission of any unlawful act on the premises.
   G.   The licensee performs an act of prostitution or other lewd conduct
within the premises or without the premises or solicits an act of prostitution
or other lewd conduct on or off the premises or performs services within or
without the premises in such manner for the purpose of sexual arousal or
gratification of a patron, or should reasonably be expected to cause such
result, or the licensee uses or is trafficking in controlled substances or
cannabis.
   H.   The licensee has violated or is not in compliance with section
3-11-11 of this chapter and the license has been suspended within the preceding
twenty four (24) months.
   I.   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises.
   J.   A licensee knowingly conducted massage activities in the village during
a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended.
   K.   Within a twenty four (24) month period, a person or persons committed
an offense as listed in subsection
3-11-7A of this chapter, which substantially occurred in or on a licensed
premises, and for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the licensee at the time the offenses were committed.
The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the
revocation of the license. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
3-11-15: APPEAL:
   A.   Any applicant or licensee who receives a notice of denial, revocation
or suspension may file an appeal with the village president as provided herein.
Such appeal shall be filed with the village president in writing no later than
eleven (11) business days following receipt of the notice, and shall include a
response to the village manager's notice. Such response shall include a brief
statement addressing the substantive deficiencies cited in the village
manager's notice and shall set forth the basis for why the license should not
be denied, revoked or suspended. If an appeal is filed of an order of the
village manager, suspending or revoking a license, such suspension or
revocation shall be stayed pending final order of the village president as
provided in this section.
   B.   The village president shall schedule an informal public hearing not
later than eleven (11) business days following receipt of such appeal. The
purpose of the hearing will be to offer the applicant or licensee an
opportunity to show cause why the application should not be denied, or why the
license should not be suspended or revoked. A record shall be made of the
informal public hearing and documents may be submitted and/or testimony given,
either in person or through sworn affidavit. This record may be made by
electronic recording. The village president shall have the power to administer
oaths and to continue the hearing from time to time to permit the applicant to
provide additional information.
The village president may designate a hearing officer to schedule, convene and
conduct the public hearing. In such case, the hearing officer shall have the
same powers as the village president to administer oaths and continue the
hearing from time to time to permit the applicant to provide additional
information. Where such designation has been made, the hearing officer shall
submit proposed findings and recommendations to the village president within
twenty one (21) days of the close of the hearing.
   C.   Within twenty one (21) days after the close of the hearing set forth in
subsection B of this section, the village president shall make written findings
of fact and issue an appropriate order. Within five (5) business days a copy of
such order shall be served upon the applicant or licensee. If the village
president determines that the license should be revoked or suspended, the
suspension or revocation shall take effect immediately upon receipt unless
otherwise specified.
   D.   The decision of the village president provided in subsection C of this
section shall be the final administrative action of the village with respect to
the license or application, and shall be subject to the immediate appeal by the
licensee or applicant to the circuit court. Such appeal to the circuit court
shall be filed not later than thirty five (35) days following the receipt of
the village president's findings and order. Failure to file such appeal as
provided herein shall render the village president's decision final. (Ord. 04-
35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-2005)
3-11-16: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person, corporation, firm or partnership found guilty of violating,
disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for
each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition to any penalty, a
licensee violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to having their
license revoked, suspended or not renewed. (Ord. 04-35, 12-20-2004, eff. 1-1-
2005)
CHAPTER 12
RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definitions
3-12-2: License Required
3-12-3: License Application
3-12-4: Licensee Qualifications
3-12-5: Issuance Of License
3-12-6: Conduct Of Raffles
3-12-7: Raffles Manager; Bond
3-12-8: Records
3-12-9: Limited Construction Of Chapter
3-12-10: Intergovernmental Cooperation
3-12-11: Penalties
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions found in title 1, chapter 3 of this code, the
words and phrases found in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
   NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less sums
expended for prizes and other reasonable operating expenses incurred as a
result of operating a raffle.
   RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 15/
1 et seq., conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other means, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest. (Ord. 99-16, 7-12-1999)
3-12-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a raffle or to sell,
offer for sale, convey, issue or otherwise transfer for value a chance on a
raffle, unless conducted pursuant to a license duly issued by the village and
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 99-16, 7-12-1999)
3-12-3: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an
application therefor with the clerk on forms provided by the clerk. Said
application shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name, address and type of organization;
      2.   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      3.   The name, address, telephone number, social security number and date
of birth of the organization's presiding officer, secretary, raffles manager
and any other members responsible for the conduct and operation of the raffle;
      4.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the
raffle;
      5.   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle;
      6.   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
      7.   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
      8.   The area or areas in which the raffle chances will be sold or
issued;
      9.   The time period during which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
      10.   The date, time and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
      11.   A sworn statement attesting to the not for profit character of the
applicant organization, signed by the presiding officer and secretary of that
organization; and
      12.   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct. (Ord. 99-16, 7-12-1999)
3-12-4: LICENSEE QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Raffle licenses shall be issued only to bona fide charitable,
educational, fraternal, labor, religious and veterans' organizations that
operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five (5) years or more immediately preceding the
making of application for a license and which have had during that entire five
(5) year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their
objectives.
   B.   The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or a gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection B1,
B2, or B3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or
in which such a person is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2, or
B3 of this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not; and
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2, or
B3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a
"raffle" as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 99-16, 7-12-1999)
3-12-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   The village manager or his designee shall review all raffle license
applications and shall, within thirty (30) days from the date of application,
accept or reject a raffle license application. If an application is accepted a
license shall be issued and shall be valid for a period of thirty (30) days
from and after its issuance unless the village manager specifically authorizes
a license for a longer period, but in no case for more than sixty (60) days,
except for ongoing raffles as defined herein.
   B.   A raffle license shall show the following:
      1.   The area or areas in which raffle chances may be sold or issued;
      2.   The period of time during which the raffle chances may be sold or
issued;
      3.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold; and
      4.   The date, time and location on or at which winning chances will be
determined.
   C.   Said license shall be prominently displayed at the time and location of
the determination of the winning chances.
   D.   A license shall be valid for one raffle only; however, multiple
licenses may be issued for multiple raffles to a licensee. (Ord. 99-16, 7-12-
1999)
3-12-6: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
   A.   The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct that game;
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle;
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle;
      4.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter;
      5.   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value only within the area specified on the license,
and winning chances may be determined only at those locations specified on the
license;
      6.   Each raffle chance shall have printed thereon the following:
         a.   The cost of said chance;
         b.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in said
raffle;
         c.   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued; and
         d.   The date(s), time(s) and location(s) on or at which winning
chances will be determined.
However, when raffle chances are sold, conveyed, issued or otherwise
transferred only at the time and location at which winning chances will be
determined and only to persons then in attendance, the face of the raffle
chance need not contain such information.
      7.   No cash prize in excess of five hundred fifty thousand dollars
($550,000.00) may be awarded.
      8.   No real property, including land and any buildings thereon, may be
the prize in a raffle unless the organization holding the raffle license owns
fee simple title as to the entire subject real property or has the consent of
the real property owner. It is understood that any liens, mortgages and real
estate taxes shall be paid by the licensee and the winning ticket holder shall
take title to the real property free and clear without any encumbrances.
      9.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in
the conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18)
years may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only
when accompanied by his parent or guardian.
      10.   No chance shall be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value to or by any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years without the permission of his parent or guardian.
      11.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any person may make a gift of a
chance to any person of any age. (Ord. 99-16, 7-12-1999)
3-12-7: RAFFLES MANAGER; BOND:
All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffles manager designated by the organization. The raffles manager
shall give a fidelity bond, equal in amount to the aggregate retail value of
all prizes to be awarded, in favor of the licensee, conditioned upon his
honesty in the performance of his duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that
notice shall be given in writing to the licensing authority not less than
thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation. (Ord. 99-16, 7-12-1999)
3-12-8: RECORDS:
   A.   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and
net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances are
to be determined. All deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering
or occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized
as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the licensee, including bingo gross receipts,
if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant
to license therefor issued by the Illinois department of revenue, and placed in
a separate account. Each licensee shall have separate records of its raffles.
The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the
operation of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenues of the organization.
   C.   Each licensee shall report within thirty (30) days after the conclusion
of each raffle to its membership and to the clerk: its gross receipts, expenses
and net proceeds for raffles, and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as
required herein.
   D.   Records required herein shall be preserved for three (3) years, and
licensees shall make available their records relating to operation of raffles
for public inspection at reasonable times and places. (Ord. 99-16, 7-12-1999)
3-12-9: LIMITED CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER:
Nothing in the chapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than
raffles as provided for herein. (Ord. 99-16, 7-12-1999)
3-12-10: INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION:
The village president, when authorized by the board of trustees, may enter into
an intergovernmental agreement with Kane County and one or more municipalities
which have adopted a raffle ordinance consistent with this chapter to jointly
establish a system for the licensing of organizations to operate raffles within
the unincorporated area of the county and within the corporate limits of any
municipality that is a party of such agreement. Such agreement shall be
consistent with the limitations of this chapter except that a license issued by
one unit of government shall be valid throughout the jurisdiction of all the
parties of the agreement. (Ord. 99-16, 7-12-1999)
3-12-11: PENALTIES:
Violation of this chapter or any of its requirements or provisions shall be
subject to a class C misdemeanor, which are thirty (30) days imprisonment and/
or a fine of not more than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). Each
day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Each member of
the sponsoring organization shall be jointly and severally liable with the
organization and with each other for any violation. The imposition of penalties
herein prescribed shall not preclude the village or state's attorney from
instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful raffles or to restrain,
enjoin, correct or abate a violation of this chapter or of the conditions of
the raffle license issued pursuant hereto. (Ord. 99-16, 7-12-1999)
CHAPTER 13
OUTDOOR CAFES
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: License Required
3-13-3: Eligibility
3-13-4: License Application, Issuance, And Renewal
3-13-5: Design And Maintenance Standards
3-13-6: Insurance Requirements
3-13-7: Liability, Indemnification And Waiver
3-13-8: Conditions Of License
3-13-9: Damage To Public Sidewalk, Right Of Way, Or Improvements
3-13-10: Revocation
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this section, an "outdoor cafe" shall be defined as a
dining area situated on public or private property, including a sidewalk or
right of way, and operated as an incidental part of an adjacent restaurant
where food and beverages are served for consumption on premises. (Ord. 00-15,
6-4-2000)
3-13-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Outdoor cafes on any sidewalk, alley, walkway, or other public right of way for
the purpose of serving food and/or drink to the public may be authorized and
licensed by the village board of trustees within the B-1 downtown business
district in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 00-15, 6-4-
2000)
3-13-3: ELIGIBILITY:
   A.   Outdoor cafes are allowed as temporary uses in the B-1 downtown
business district of the village upon approval and license by the village board
and pursuant to the standards set forth herein.
   B.   The use of public sidewalks, alleys, walkways, or other public rights
of way for outdoor cafes shall only be permitted and licensed when such use is
incidental to the operation of a business on private contiguous property. (Ord.
00-15, 6-4-2000)
3-13-4: LICENSE APPLICATION, ISSUANCE, AND RENEWAL:
An outdoor cafe license must first be issued by the village of West Dundee
before any person places any tables, chairs, umbrellas, food vending carts,
enclosures, or other structures on any public sidewalk, alley, walkway, or
other public right of way in the B-1 downtown business district for the purpose
of serving food and/or drink to the public.
   A.   Prior to the issuance of the outdoor cafe license, the village must
first grant permission to use the public sidewalk, alley, walkway, or other
public right of way for the purpose of an outdoor cafe.
   B.   The license application shall require the following information and
documentation:
      1.   Completed application form and application fee;
      2.   Certificates of insurance as required by the provisions of this
chapter;
      3.   Signed indemnification form;
      4.   Dimensioned site plan that shows the following:
         a.   The area of the sidewalk or public right of way that is being
requested for use as an outdoor cafe, its relation to the building and
designated entrances/exits, and the location of the curb;
         b.   The location of all existing public improvements such as light
poles, benches, trash receptacles, trees, planters, etc.;
         c.   The proposed location of all tables, chairs, food carts, and
other equipment to be placed in the outdoor cafe area. (Ord. 00-15, 6-4-2000)
   C.   Outdoor cafe licenses issued hereunder shall be valid from May 1
through April 30 of the following year. The license fee for an outdoor cafe
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for each year the license is obtained. (Ord.
2006-14, 5-15-2006)
   D.   Outdoor cafe licenses granted by the village board may be applied for
and renewed on an annual basis by the village manager unless such license has
been revoked. (Ord. 00-15, 6-4-2000)
3-13-5: DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   The proposed outdoor cafe may not interfere with pedestrian or vehicle
traffic or with access to parked vehicles, and in no event shall the uses
licensed by an outdoor cafe license reduce the open portion of any sidewalk or
walkway to less than five feet (5') in width.
   B.   The design and placement of chairs and tables, as well as other
equipment shall comply with the Americans with disabilities act and the
Illinois accessibility act.
   C.   No tables, chairs, or other equipment shall be attached or affixed to
the sidewalk, parkway, poles, or any other public facility.
   D.   All applicable county health department sanitation requirements shall
be followed for outdoor food handling.
   E.   All public areas encompassed by the licensed outdoor cafe shall be
maintained in a sanitary manner at all times. Food scraps and containers shall
be disposed of in appropriate refuse containers on a regular basis during the
day by the licensee. Sweeping of refuse or food scraps onto the adjacent
sidewalk, right of way, curb and gutter, planter, or any other public
improvement is not permitted.
   F.   Licensees shall see that the public areas encompassed by the outdoor
cafe are cleaned at the end of each business day, so as not to have any food or
drink leftovers remaining which would pose an attraction to animals or insects.
Each license holder shall wash, as needed, the public area to remove any food
or drink residue that may attract animals and/or create a slip hazard. (Ord.
00-15, 6-4-2000)
3-13-6: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Liability Insurance Requirements: Licensee shall during the term of the
license, maintain in full force and effect, at its own cost and expense,
insurance of the types and in the amounts described below:
      1.   Workers' Compensation Insurance: Licensee shall maintain workers'
compensation and employers liability insurance, with coverage A at statutory
limits and coverage B (commercial umbrella and/or employers liability) limits
not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each accident for bodily
injury by accident and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each employee for
bodily injury by disease. This insurance shall cover licensee's employees in
compliance with the state of Illinois and all other states having jurisdiction
over each employee.
      2.   Commercial General And Umbrella Liability Insurance: Licensee shall
maintain commercial general liability (CGL) and, if necessary, commercial
umbrella liability insurance with a limit of not less than five million dollars
($5,000,000.00) each occurrence. If such insurance contains a general aggregate
limit, it shall apply separately to this license.
         a.   Coverage: This CGL and umbrella (if any) insurance shall be
written on an occurrence basis and shall cover liability arising from premises,
operations, independent contractors, products completed operations, bodily and
personal injury, property damage, advertising injury, liability assumed by
licensee under this license (including the tort liability of another assumed in
a business contract).
         b.   Additional Insured: The village shall be named as an insured
under this CGL and umbrella (if any) insurance using an additional insured
endorsement acceptable to the village. This insurance shall apply as primary
insurance with respect to any other insurance or self-insurance programs
afforded to the village. There shall be no endorsement or modification of this
insurance to make it excess over other available insurance; alternatively, if
the CGL and umbrella (if any) insurance states that it is excess or pro rata,
it shall be endorsed to be primary with respect to the village.
         c.   Pollution Or Employment Related Practices Coverage: There shall
be no endorsement or modification of the CGL and umbrella insurance provided
for here limiting the scope of coverage for liability arising from pollution or
employment related practices.
         d.   Waiver Of Subrogation: Licensee waives all rights against the
village for recovery of damages to the extent these damages are covered by the
CGL or commercial umbrella liability insurance maintained pursuant to this
paragraph.
   B.   Proof Of Insurance: Prior to the effective date of the license,
licensee shall furnish the village with copies of its current certificates of
insurance documenting each such policy, along with the additional insured
endorsements required in this section.
   C.   Cancellation: All such insurance provided for herein shall be
noncancelable, except upon thirty (30) days prior notice to the village, and
shall contain the following endorsement (or its equivalent):
It is hereby understood and agreed that this insurance policy may not be
canceled by the surety or the intention not to renew be signed by the surety
until 30 days after receipt by the Village of West Dundee by registered mail of
written notice of such intention to cancel or not to renew.
This language, or its equivalent, shall appear on the policies respective
insurance certificates.
   D.   No Limitation On Liability: The minimum amounts set forth in this
license for such insurance shall not be construed as a limitation or
satisfaction of licensee's liability, including indemnification, to the village
under the license to the amount of such insurance.
   E.   No Waiver: The failure or delay of the village at any time to require
performance by another party of any provision of this section, even if known,
shall not affect the right of such party to require performance of that
provision or to exercise any right, power or remedy under this license, and any
waiver by any party of any breach of any provision in this section shall not be
construed as a waiver of any continuing or succeeding breach of such provision,
a waiver of the provision itself, or a waiver of any right, power or remedy
under this license. No notice to or demand on any party in any case shall, of
itself, entitle such party to any other or further notice of demand in similar
or other circumstances, except as otherwise provided herein. (Ord. 00-15, 6-4-
2000)
3-13-7: LIABILITY, INDEMNIFICATION AND WAIVER:
   A.   Assumption Of Liability: The licensee assumes liability for all injury
to or death of any person or persons including employees, sublicensees, any
supplier or any other person and assumes liability for all damage to property
sustained by any person.
   B.   Indemnification: To the fullest extent permitted by law, licensee will
defend, indemnify and hold the village harmless from all claims arising from or
in connection with: 1) the conduct or management of the leased areas or of any
business thereon, or any work or thing whatsoever done, or any condition
created on or about the leased area during the term; 2) any act, omission or
negligence of licensee or any of licensee's assignees, tenants or lessees, or
the partners, directors, officers, agents, employees, invitees or contractors
of licensee or of licensee's assignees, tenants or lessees; 3) any accident,
injury or damage whatsoever occurring on or at the licensed area. Licensee
hereby expressly indemnifies village for the consequences of any negligent act
or omission of village, its agents, servants and employees, unless such act or
omission constitutes gross negligence or intentional misconduct.
   C.   Defense Of Village: In the event any claims shall arise, the village
shall tender the defense thereof to licensee. Provided, however, the village,
in its sole discretion, may participate in the defense of such claims at
licensee's sole expense; such participation shall not relieve licensee from its
duty to defend and to pay any judgment or settlement against the village in
such claims. Further, the village shall have the right to approve legal counsel
proposed by licensee for the defense of the village. Licensee shall not agree
to any settlement of claims without the village approval.
   D.   Waiver Of Defenses: In any and all claims against the village or any of
its agents or employees, by any employee of licensee, the indemnification
obligation under this paragraph shall not be limited by any limitation on the
amount or type of damages, compensation or benefits payable by or for licensee
under workers' compensation acts, disability benefit acts or employee benefit
acts, or other applicable law. License waives all defenses available to
licensee as an employer which limit the amount of licensee's liability to the
village to the amount of licensee's liability under any workers' compensation,
disability benefits or employee benefit acts. (Ord. 00-15, 6-4-2000)
3-13-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   The licensee shall not be permitted to serve alcoholic beverages or
liquor in a licensed outdoor cafe except in conformance with the appropriate
liquor license issued pursuant to chapter 2 of this title.
      2.   The consumption of alcoholic beverages on public property outside of
the licensed outdoor cafe area is strictly prohibited. The licensee shall be
responsible for the actions of its patrons and violations can result in the
revocation of the outdoor cafe license and/or the alcoholic liquor license.
(Ord. 00-15, 6-4-2000)
   B.   Amplified Music: Outdoor sound amplification is permitted as background
ambiance so that it is not obtrusive to the neighboring properties or
businesses, as deemed by the judgment of a West Dundee law enforcement
official. (Ord. 2006-14, 5-15-2006)
   C.   Prohibited Hours Of Operation: An outdoor cafe on public property shall
not be operated between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day, Monday through Sunday. (2004 Code)
   D.   Removal Of Tables And Chairs: All tables, chairs, furnishings,
equipment, signage, and other equipment shall be removed from the public
sidewalk or right of way at the end of the license period. (Ord. 00-15, 6-4-
2000)
3-13-9: DAMAGE TO PUBLIC SIDEWALK, RIGHT OF WAY, OR IMPROVEMENTS:
The licensee shall not cause any damage to the public sidewalk, right of way,
public improvements or any other public facility within the outdoor cafe area.
   A.   The licensee shall be responsible for any damage caused by its
employees, agents, or patrons.
   B.   Any damage to the public sidewalk, right of way, public improvements or
any other public facility shall be repaired to the village's satisfaction at
the sole cost and expense of the licensee. (Ord. 00-15, 6-4-2000)
3-13-10: REVOCATION:
The village may suspend or revoke the outdoor cafe license for any reason
including, but not limited to, violations of any provisions of this code. (Ord.
00-15, 6-4-2000)
CHAPTER 14
BODY ART STUDIOS
SECTION:
3-14-1: Definitions
3-14-2: Requirements
3-14-3: Care And Storing Of Instruments
3-14-4: Records
3-14-5: Sanitary Conditions
3-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
   PERMIT HOLDER: The holder of a special use permit, issued by the village
board, for operating a body art studio. (Ord. 98-24, 9-14-1998; amd. Ord. 2025-
19, 4-7-2025)
3-14-2: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The operation of a body art studio shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   The room in which body art is done shall have an area of not less
than one hundred fifty (150) square feet with adequate lighting, ventilation
and water. In addition, the walls, floors and ceiling of the body art rooms
shall have an impervious, smooth and washable surface.
      2.   A toilet shall be located in the body art studio and shall be
accessible at all times that the body art studio is open for business. The
lavatory shall be supplied with hot and cold running water, soap and sanitary
towels.
      3.   All tables and other equipment shall be constructed of easily
cleanable material, shall be painted or finished in a light color, with a
smooth washable finish. For privacy purposes, the area in which the customer is
being tattooed or receiving other body art services shall be separated from
waiting customers or other observers by an opaque curtain which shall be drawn
when the procedure impacts the area normally covered by a bikini bathing suit
on a female and swimming trunks on a male. Provided, however, the curtain shall
be drawn at all other times when requested by a customer.
      4.   The entire premises, and all equipment and instruments shall be
maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and in good repair.
      5.   The body art artist shall wash their hands thoroughly with soap and
water before starting a tattoo or other procedure; the hands shall be dried
with individual, single use towels. The artist shall wear clean outer garments
and sterile gloves shall be worn by the artist during the procedure.
      6.   No procedure shall be done on any skin surface that has rash,
pimples, boils, infections or manifests any evidence of unhealthy conditions.
      7.   Safety razors with a new, single service blade for each customer or
patron or a straight edge razor may be used and shall be thoroughly cleaned and
sterilized before use on each customer or patron.
      8.   The area to be tattooed shall first be thoroughly washed for a
period of two (2) minutes with warm water to which has been added an antiseptic
liquid soap. A sterile single use sponge shall be used to scrub the area. After
shaving and before tattooing is begun, a solution of seventy percent (70%)
alcohol shall be applied to the area with a single use sponge used and applied
with a sterile instrument.
      9.   Only petroleum jelly in collapsible metal or plastic tubes, or its
equivalent as approved by the village, shall be used on the area to be tattooed
and it shall be applied with sterile gauze.
      10.   The use of styptic pencils, alum blocks or other solid styptics to
check the flow of blood is prohibited.
      11.   Inquiry shall be made, and anyone giving a history of recent
jaundice or hepatitis or communicable disease may not be tattooed.
      12.   All needle bars used in the tattooing procedure shall be for single
patron use.
      13.   Single service or individual containers of dye or ink shall be used
for each patron and the container therefore shall be discarded immediately
after completing work on a patron and any dye in which the needles were dipped
shall not be used on another person. Excess dye or ink shall be removed from
the skin with an individual sterile sponge or a disposable paper tissue which
shall be used only on one person and then immediately discarded. After
completing work on any person, the tattooed area shall be washed with sterile
gauze saturated with a seventy percent (70%) alcohol solution. The tattooed
area shall be allowed to dry and petroleum jelly from a collapsible or plastic
tube shall be applied, using sterile gauze. A sterile gauze dressing shall then
be fastened to the tattooed area with adhesives.
      14.   Persons receiving a body art procedure shall be provided with
printed instructions regarding proper care during the healing process and shall
be instructed to consult a physician if signs and symptoms of infection
develop.
      15.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) shall be tattooed.
      16.   All refuse shall be stored in rigid containers with tightfitting
covers.
      17.   Smoking or consumption of food or drink shall not be allowed in any
area where the actual procedure is being performed.
      18.   No animals, except for guide dogs or other animals for disabled
persons shall be permitted on the premises.
      19.   Tattoo machines and other equipment shall be stored in a manner
that will maintain sterility.
      20.   All bandages and dressings shall be sterile and topical ointments
or medications shall be dispensed in a sterile manner.
      21.   No new customers may begin the tattooing procedure after ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and prior to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day. (Ord. 98-
24, 9-14-1998; amd. Ord. 2025-19, 4-7-2025)
3-14-3: CARE AND STORING OF INSTRUMENTS:
   A.   All clean and ready to use needles, instruments, dyes, pigments,
stencils and other equipment shall be kept in a closed glass or metal case or
storage cabinet while not in use. Such cabinet shall be maintained in a
sanitary manner at all times.
   B.   A steam sterilizer (autoclave) shall be provided for sterilizing all
needles and similar instruments before use on any customer, person or patron.
Sterilization of equipment will be accomplished by exposure to live steam for
at least thirty (30) minutes at a minimum pressure of fifteen (15) pounds per
square inch, temperature of two hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (250°F)/ one
hundred and thirty-one degrees Celsius(131°C) or dry heat sterilization at
three hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (350°F)/one hundred and seventy degrees
Celsius (170°C) for one hour.
   C.   The needles and instruments required to be sterilized shall be so used,
handled and temporarily placed during any procedure so that they will not be
contaminated. (Ord. 98-24, 9-14-1998; amd. Ord. 2025-19, 4-7-2025)
3-14-4: RECORDS:
   A.   Permanent records for each patron or customer shall be maintained by
the permit holder of the tattoo parlor. Before the procedure begins, the patron
or customer shall be required personally to enter, on a record form provided by
the establishment, the date, his or her name, address, age, serial number if a
member of the armed forces, and his or her signature.
   B.   Such records shall be maintained in the body art studio and shall be
available for examination by the building and zoning department. Records shall
be retained by the permit holder for a period of not less than two (2) years.
   C.   Each permit holder must obtain and keep on file with the village a
written agreement with a state licensed special waste hauler for the disposal
of used needles, dressing and other medical waste generated by the procedure.
(Ord. 98-24, 9-14-1998; amd. Ord. 2025-19, 4-7-2025)
3-14-5: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Infections:
      1.   No person, customer or patron having any communicable skin infection
or other communicable disease of the skin or any communicable disease shall
have any body art procedure performed.
      2.   All infections resulting from the practice of tattooing which become
known to the permit holder shall promptly be reported to the village and the
Kane County health department by the permit holder of the body art studio, and
the infected client shall be referred to a physician.
   B.   Pigments, Dyes: All pigments, dyes, colors, etc., used in tattooing
shall be sterile and free from bacteria, virus particles and noxious agents and
substances, and the pigments, dyes and colors used from stock solutions for
each customer or patron shall be placed in a single service receptacle and such
receptacle and remaining solution shall be considered medical waste and
discarded after use on each customer or patron.
   C.   Bandages And Surgical Dressings: All bandages and surgical dressings
used in connection with any procedure shall be sterile.
   D.   Inspections: The building and zoning department, through its authorized
personnel, may conduct periodic inspections of the subject property for the
purpose of determining whether or not said establishment and the persons
performing the art of tattooing and other procedures therein are in compliance
with all applicable regulations contained within this chapter and other
pertinent ordinances and statutes. It shall be unlawful for the permit holders
or any person or operator of the body art studio to willfully prevent or
restrain the village officer from entering the body art studio for the purpose
of inspecting said premises, after proper identification is presented to the
permit holder.
   E.   Medical Waste: All needles, used dressings, etc., shall be treated as
medical waste and shall be delivered for disposal to a waste hauler licensed by
the state of Illinois to dispose of the special waste. (Ord. 98-24, 9-14-1998;
amd. Ord. 2025-19, 4-7-2025)
CHAPTER 15
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
SECTION:
3-15-1: Definitions
3-15-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
3-15-3: Applicable Principles
3-15-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-15-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-15-6: Late Fees/Payments
3-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   CABLE SERVICE: As defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
   COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
   GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers
and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 07-45, 11-5-2007)
3-15-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The Village: The holder shall notify the village at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service in the village.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt
of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting
this chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-401(b)(6) to the village.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 07-45, 11-5-2007)
3-15-3: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 07-45, 11-5-2007)
3-15-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 07-45, 11-
5-2007)
3-15-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the municipality's submission of an invoice
for the sum. (Ord. 07-45, 11-5-2007)
3-15-6: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill
of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 07-45, 11-5-
2007)
CHAPTER 16
MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX
SECTION:
3-16-1: Short Title
3-16-2: Definitions
3-16-3: Tax
3-16-4: Collection Of Tax By Public Utility
3-16-5: Books And Records
3-16-1: SHORT TITLE:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be known as the "municipal gas use tax"
and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the village of West
Dundee, the state of Illinois, or any other municipal corporation or political
subdivision thereof. (Ord. 09-31, 12-7-2009)
3-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT: The public utilities act 1  as amended.
   PUBLIC UTILITY: A public utility as defined in section 3-105 of the public
utilities act.
   RETAIL PURCHASER: Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
   SALE AT RETAIL: Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term "retailer" means
any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas. (Ord. 09-31, 12-7-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
3-16-3: TAX:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, a tax is imposed on the
privilege of using or consuming gas in the village that is purchased in a sale
at retail at the rate of four cents ($0.04) per therm.
   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the retail purchaser, and nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose
a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling or
transporting gas.
   C.   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser's premises, to the public utility designated
to collect the tax pursuant to section
3-16-4 of this chapter on or before the payment due date of the public
utility's bill first reflecting the tax, or directly to the village treasurer
on or before the fifteenth day of the second month following the month in which
the gas is delivered to the retail purchaser if no public utility has been
designated to collect the tax pursuant to section
3-16-4 of this chapter or if the gas is delivered by a person other than a
public utility so designated.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose a tax upon any
person, business or activity which, under the constitutions of the United
States or state of Illinois, may not be made the subject of taxation by the
village.
   E.   A person who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay the
tax imposed by this chapter with respect to the use or consumption of the gas,
but who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the village treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the second
month following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
   F.   The tax shall apply to gas for which the delivery to the retail
purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after January 1, 2010.
   G.   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as a result of mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be: 1) credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment or 2) subject to a refund if no such tax is due or to become
due; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior
to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited or refunded.
   H.   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
chapter shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount. (Ord. 09-31, 12-7-2009)
3-16-4: COLLECTION OF TAX BY PUBLIC UTILITY:
The president, village treasurer, village manager and village finance director
are each authorized to enter into a contract for collection of the tax imposed
by this chapter with any public utility providing gas service in the village.
The contract shall include and substantially conform with the following
provisions:
   A.   The public utility will collect the tax from retail purchasers as an
independent contractor;
   B.   The public utility will remit collected taxes to the village treasurer
no more often than once each month;
   C.   The public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax collections a
service fee equal to three percent (3%) of the amounts collected and timely
remitted to the village treasurer;
   D.   The public utility shall not be responsible to the village for any tax
not actually collected from a retail purchaser; and
   E.   Such additional terms as the parties may agree upon. (Ord. 09-31, 12-7-
2009)
3-16-5: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records, including original source
documents and books of entry, denoting the activities or transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise to any tax liability or exemption under this
chapter. All such books and records shall, at all times during business hours,
be subject to and available for inspection by the village. (Ord. 09-31, 12-7-
2009)
CHAPTER 17
MUNICIPAL ELECTRICITY TAX
SECTION:
3-17-1: Short Title
3-17-2: Definitions
3-17-3: Tax Imposed
3-17-4: Effective Date Of Tax Rates
3-17-5: Collection
3-17-6: Penalties
3-17-7: Reinstatement Of Utility Tax On Electricity
3-17-1: SHORT TITLE:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be known as the "municipal electricity
tax" and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the village of
West Dundee, the state of Illinois, or any other municipal corporation or
political subdivision thereof. (Ord. 09-32, 12-7-2009)
3-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address regardless
of where such amount is billed or paid.
   GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for the transmission of messages,
or distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas or electricity for use or
consumption and not for resale, as the case may be; and for all services
rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received in money or
otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property of every kind and
material and for all services rendered therewith; and shall be determined
without any deduction on account of the cost of transmitting said messages
without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or
commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expenses whatsoever. Gross receipts shall not include receipts received
from the village for the sale to said village of any of the utility products or
services mentioned above.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within the state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent or other
representative operating within the state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in the state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in the state.
   PUBLIC UTILITY: As defined in section 3-105 of the public utilities act 1 .
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Pursuant to section
3-17-3 of this chapter, the acquisition, consumption or use of electricity at
retail.
   PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of
the village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail (other than an exempt
purchaser).
   RETAILER: Includes every person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail as defined in section
3-17-3 of this chapter.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS VILLAGE (Or Any Like Term):
Includes any retailer having or maintaining within the state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within the state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether
such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser. (Ord. 09-
32, 12-7-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/3-105.
3-17-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Tax Imposed Upon End Users Of Electricity: Pursuant to the Illinois
municipal code 1  and any other applicable authority, a tax is hereby imposed
upon the privilege of using or consuming electricity purchased at retail and
used or consumed within the corporate limits of the village at the following
rates, as calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser, except for
electricity used or consumed by the village:
      1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours ("kWh") used or consumed in a
month, 0.610 cent per kWh;
      2.   For the next 48,000 kWh used or consumed in a month, 0.400 cent per
kWh;
      3.   For the next 50,000 kWh used or consumed in a month, 0.360 cent per
kWh;
      4.   For the next 400,000 kWh used or consumed in a month, 0.350 cent per
kWh;
      5.   For the next 500,000 kWh used or consumed in a month, 0.340 cent per
kWh;
      6.   For the next 2,000,000 kWh used or consumed in a month, 0.320 cent
per kWh;
      7.   For the next 2,000,000 kWh used or consumed in a month, 0.315 cent
per kWh;
      8.   For the next 5,000,000 kWh used or consumed in a month, 0.310 cent
per kWh;
      9.   For the next 10,000,000 kWh used or consumed in a month, 0.305 cent
per kWh; and
      10.   For all electricity consumed or used in excess of 20,000,000 kWh in
a month, 0.300 cent per kWh.
The tax imposed by this chapter is in addition to all taxes, fees and other
revenue measures imposed by the village, the state of Illinois or any other
political subdivision of the state.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax shall not be
imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the constitution
of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 09-32, 12-7-2009)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-17-4: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX RATES:
The tax rates as set forth in section
3-17-3 of this chapter shall apply to electricity for which the delivery to the
retail purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after January 1, 2010.
(Ord. 09-32, 12-7-2009)
3-17-5: COLLECTION:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
chapter and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the municipality by such person delivering the
electricity provided that the person delivering electricity shall be allowed a
credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the charges for which
are written off as uncollectable and provided further, that if such charges are
thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such
tax. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such
gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the
person delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records,
billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the municipality upon request. If the person delivering
electricity fails to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser
shall be required to pay the tax directly to the municipality in the manner
prescribed by the municipality. Persons delivering electricity who file returns
pursuant to this section shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the
municipality the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this chapter. In the
event a purchaser shall make only a partial payment of any bill supplied to
him, her or it by the supplier, any such partial payment not specifically
identified by the purchaser to be applied to the tax imposed by this chapter
shall be deemed to be for the delivery of electricity.
   B.   On or before the last day of February 2010, each tax collector shall
make a return to the village's treasurer for the month of January 2010,
stating:
      1.   His name;
      2.   His principal place of business;
      3.   His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed;
      4.   Amount of tax;
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each tax collector shall
make a like return to the village treasurer for a corresponding one month
period.
The tax collector making the return herein provided for shall, at the time of
making such return, pay to the village treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that in connection with any return the tax collector may, if
he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   C.   If it appears that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer or tax collector
who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more
than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall so be
credited.
   D.   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
section shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount. (Ord. 09-32, 12-7-2009)
3-17-6: PENALTIES:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), plus
all costs of prosecution including, but not limited to, filing fees, witness
fees, attorney fees and court costs. For purposes of this chapter, each day
upon which a violation occurs or continues to occur shall be deemed a separate
and distinct violation. This penalty is in addition to any civil action which
may be available to the village or electric deliverer to collect upon the
amount of tax due. (Ord. 09-32, 12-7-2009)
3-17-7: REINSTATEMENT OF UTILITY TAX ON ELECTRICITY:
In the event public act 90-561 is declared unconstitutional, or if this chapter
is found unconstitutional or voided by any court of competent jurisdiction, the
provisions of the former chapter shall remain in effect in all respects as if
it had never been repealed, and any amounts paid to the village by any person
delivering electricity pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to have been
paid pursuant to the former chapter as it existed prior to the passage hereof.
(Ord. 09-32, 12-7-2009)
CHAPTER 18
ELECTRICAL AGGREGATION
SECTION:
3-18-1: Purpose
3-18-2: Electrical Aggregation Program
3-18-3: Plan Of Operation And Governance
3-18-1: PURPOSE:
The corporate authorities of the village find and determine that it is in the
best interests of the village to operate the electric aggregation program under
the Illinois power agency act as an opt out program. (Ord. 2012-13, 5-21-2012)
3-18-2: ELECTRICAL AGGREGATION PROGRAM:
   A.   The corporate authorities of the village hereby are authorized to
aggregate in accordance with the terms of the act residential and small
commercial retail electrical loads located within the corporate limits of the
village, and for that purpose may solicit bids and enter into service
agreements to facilitate for those loads the sale and purchase of electricity
and related services and equipment.
   B.   The corporate authorities of the village are granted the authority to
exercise such authority jointly with any other municipality or county and, in
combination with two (2) or more municipalities or counties, may initiate a
process jointly to authorize aggregation by a majority vote of each particular
municipality or county as required by the act.
   C.   The aggregation program for the village shall operate as an opt out
program for residential and small commercial retail customers.
   D.   The aggregation program shall be approved by a majority of the members
of the corporate authority of the village.
   E.   The corporate authorities of the village with the assistance from the
Illinois power agency shall develop a plan of operation and governance for the
aggregation program and shall conduct such public hearings and provide such
public notice as required under the act. The load aggregation plan shall
provide for universal access to all applicable residential customers and
equitable treatment of applicable residential customers, shall describe demand
management and energy efficiency services to be provided to each class of
customers and shall meet any requirements established by law concerning
aggregated service offered pursuant to the act.
   F.   As an opt out program, the corporate authorities of the village shall
fully inform residential and small commercial retail customers in advance that
they have the right to opt out of the aggregation program. The disclosure and
information provided to the customers shall comply with the requirements of the
act.
   G.   The electric aggregation shall occur automatically for each person
owning, occupying, controlling, or using an electrical load center proposed to
be aggregated in the corporate limits of the village, subject to a right to opt
out of the program as described under this chapter and the act.
   H.   The corporate authorities hereby grant the village manager or his
designee in writing the specific authority to execute a contract without
further action by the corporate authorities and with the authority to bind the
village. (Ord. 2012-13, 5-21-2012)
3-18-3: PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE:
The corporate authorities hereby adopt the electrical power aggregation plan of
operation and governance as set forth in exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein and made a part hereof as if fully set forth by this reference.
(Ord. 2012-13, 5-21-2012)
CHAPTER 19
FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX
SECTION:
3-19-1: Title
3-19-2: Definitions
3-19-3: Tax Imposed
3-19-4: Collection Of Tax By Retailer
3-19-5: Responsibility Of Owner To Keep Daily Records; Right Of Village To
Inspect
3-19-6: Transmittal Of Tax Collection
3-19-7: Transmittal Of Excess Tax Collections
3-19-8: Late Payment Fee
3-19-9: Action To Enforce Payment
3-19-10: Penalties
3-19-11: Confidentiality
3-19-1: TITLE:
A tax shall be imposed on the sale at retail of prepared food, alcoholic
liquor, and certain food items which are sold in the village. The tax imposed
in this chapter shall be known and cited as the "food and beverage tax". (Ord.
2014-08, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following words or terms shall have the following meanings:
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, or ale as defined, set
forth and regulated in
chapter 2 of this title, which is sold at retail either for consumption on
premises where sold or is sold in its original package for consumption off the
premises.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR FACILITY: Any establishment licensed under the provisions
of
chapter 2 of this title and that sells alcoholic liquor on a retail basis.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability company or
similar representative or entity.
   PREPARED FOOD: A. Any solid, liquid (including alcoholic and nonalcoholic
liquid), powder or item used or intended to be used for human internal
consumption, whether simple, compound or mixed, and which has been prepared for
immediate consumption.
   B.   Includes any such item purchased for consumption within or upon the
premises where it is sold or where such item may be purchased for consumption
off the premises. Also included are those food items that are required to pay
the higher sales tax rate as outlined in title 86, chapter I, part 130 of the
Illinois department of revenue code pertaining to the retailers' occupation
tax.
   C.   Shall include food items which are purchased hot or are otherwise
purchased prepared from establishments such as, but not limited to, catering
establishments or food takeout/delivery establishments, for immediate on
premises or off premises consumption.
   PREPARED FOOD FACILITY: A. Any person or establishment which sells at
retail, food prepared for immediate consumption and whether or not such
prepared food facility use is conducted along with any other use(s) in a common
premises or business establishment.
   B.   Includes, but is not limited to, those persons or establishments,
commonly called an inn, restaurant, grocery store, eating place, drive-in
restaurant, bakery, buffet, cafeteria, cafe, lunch counter, fast food outlet,
catering service, coffee shop, diner, sandwich shop, service station
minimarket, soda fountain, tavern, bar, cocktail lounge, soft drink parlor, ice
cream parlor, tearoom, delicatessen, movie theater, mobile food or beverage or
ice cream vehicle, hotel, motel or club, or other establishment which sells at
retail, food which has been prepared for immediate consumption.
   C.   Does not include coin operated automatic food item dispensing machines,
churches, public or private schools, boarding houses, hospitals, daycare
centers, nursing homes, retirement centers or similar residential care
facilities or programs for the central preparation of meals to be delivered and
consumed at private residences of invalids or the elderly, and other facilities
of not for profit associations or corporations.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: To obtain for use or consumption in exchange for
consideration, whether in the form of money, credits, barter or in any other
nature, and not for resale.
   RETAILER: A "person" as defined herein that sells or offers for sale
prepared food and/or alcoholic liquor for use or consumption and not for
resale. (Ord. 2014-08, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-19-3: TAX IMPOSED:
Effective June 1, 2014, a tax, in addition to any and all other taxes, is
imposed upon the purchase of prepared foods, alcoholic liquor at retail at any
prepared food facility or alcoholic liquor facility, and those food/drink items
that are required to pay the higher sales tax rate as outlined in title 86,
chapter I, part 130 of the Illinois department of revenue code pertaining to
the retailers' occupation tax, within the village at a rate of one percent (1%)
of the purchase price of such prepared foods, alcoholic liquor, and other
applicable food/drink items as herein outlined. The liability for payment of
the tax shall be borne by the purchaser. (Ord. 2014-08, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-
2014)
3-19-4: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER:
The owner and the operator of each prepared food facility and each alcoholic
liquor facility, grocery store, and other applicable retail establishment
within the village shall jointly and severally have the duty to collect and
account for said tax from each purchaser at the time that the consideration for
such purchase is paid. (Ord. 2014-08, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-19-5: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER TO KEEP DAILY RECORDS; RIGHT OF VILLAGE TO
INSPECT:
The owner and operator of each facility required to impose this additional tax
within the village shall jointly and severally have the duty to maintain
complete and accurate books, records and accounts showing the gross receipts
for sales of prepared food, alcoholic liquor, and other included items, and the
taxes collected each day. The applicable records shall be made available to the
village for examination and for audit by the village upon reasonable notice and
during customary business hours. (Ord. 2014-08, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-19-6: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX COLLECTION:
Each prepared food facility and alcoholic liquor facility within the village
shall jointly and severally have the duty to cause to be filed a sworn return
with the village for each such facility for each such licensed premises located
in the village. Said return shall be prepared and submitted in forms prescribed
by the village. Said returns shall be filed with the village by the twentieth
day of the succeeding calendar month. Said return shall be accompanied by
payment to the village of all taxes imposed by this chapter which are due and
owing for the period covered by the return. The return shall also be
accompanied with a copy of the return filed with the Illinois department of
revenue for sales within the village of West Dundee covering the same reporting
period. In the event that the retail establishment is allowed to file sales tax
returns on a schedule that is less than on a monthly basis, the schedule
allowed by the state will also be acceptable to the village of West Dundee.
(Ord. 2014-08, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-19-7: TRANSMITTAL OF EXCESS TAX COLLECTIONS:
If any person collects an amount in excess of the tax imposed by this chapter,
but which amount is purported to be a collection thereof, and does not return
the same to the purchaser who paid the tax, the person who collected the tax
shall account for and pay over the excess amounts to the village along with the
tax properly collected. (Ord. 2014-08, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-19-8: LATE PAYMENT FEE:
If any tax imposed by this chapter is not paid when due, a late payment penalty
equal to two percent (2%) of the unpaid tax shall be added for each month, or
any portion thereof, that such tax remains unpaid, and the total of such late
payment shall be paid along with the tax imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 2014-
08, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-19-9: ACTION TO ENFORCE PAYMENT:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as provided in this chapter, the
village attorney shall, upon request of the village, bring or cause to be
brought an action to enforce the payment of such tax on behalf of the village
in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2014-08, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-
2014)
3-19-10: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting,
failing to submit a correct tax return by the date or refusing to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter, except when otherwise specifically
provided, upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for the first offense and not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the second and subsequent offenses.
Each act of violation and each day upon which a violation occurs constitutes a
separate offense.
   B.   Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter can result in the
suspension, revocation, or refusal to renew alcoholic liquor licenses as
defined in chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 2014-08, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-19-11: CONFIDENTIALITY:
All information received by the village from returns filed pursuant to this
chapter or from any investigations conducted pursuant to this chapter, except
for official village purposes, or as required by the freedom of information
act, shall be confidential. (Ord. 2014-08, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
CHAPTER 20
LOCAL MOTOR FUEL TAX
SECTION:
3-20-1: Local Motor Fuel Tax Imposed
3-20-2: Definitions
3-20-3: Imposition Of Tax
3-20-4: Liability For Payment
3-20-5: Collection Of Tax
3-20-6: Filing Of Return
3-20-7: Rules And Regulations
3-20-8: Failure To Pay Tax When Due
3-20-9: Records
3-20-10: Suspension Or Revocation Of License For Failure To Pay Tax
3-20-11: Disposition Of Records Of Tax
3-20-12: Penalty
3-20-1: LOCAL MOTOR FUEL TAX IMPOSED:
A tax shall be imposed and levied upon the retail purchase of motor fuel, or
fraction thereof, sold at retail within the corporate limits of the village.
The tax imposed in this chapter shall be known and cited as the "local motor
fuel tax". (Ord. 2014-09, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following words or terms shall have the following meanings:
   DEALER: Every person engaged in the business of the retail sale of motor
fuel, including any person who has an established place of business for such
purposes ascribed to them in this chapter.
   MOTOR FUEL: All volatile and inflammable liquids produced, blended or
compounded for the purpose of, or which are suitable or practicable for,
operating internal combustion engines.
   PERSON: Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator,
assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, copartnership, joint
venture, club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise; whenever the
term "person" is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the
term as applied to associations shall mean that the owners or part owners
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   RETAIL: The sale for any good and valuable consideration to a person for use
as a consumer. (Ord. 2014-09, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-20-3: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
   A.   There is hereby imposed and shall immediately accrue and be collected a
tax upon the privilege of purchasing motor fuel at retail in the village of
West Dundee at a rate of two cents ($0.02) per U.S. gallon.
   B.   In the event motor fuel is dispensed by a unit of measure other than
the U.S. gallon, then the tax shall be imposed at the same ratio of two cents
($0.02) per U.S. gallon to the unit of measure. (Ord. 2014-09, 4-21-2014, eff.
6-1-2014)
3-20-4: LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT:
The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax shall be borne
by the retail purchaser. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and
all other taxes. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose the tax
upon the occupation of selling motor fuel. It shall be the duty of every dealer
to secure said tax under rules and regulation prescribed by the village manager
and as otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 2014-09, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-
2014)
3-20-5: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Every dealer required to collect the tax levied by this chapter shall secure
said tax from the retail purchaser at the time the dealer collects payment for
the motor fuel. The tax shall be paid by the retail purchaser to the person
required to collect it as trustee for and on account of the village of West
Dundee. (Ord. 2014-09, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-20-6: FILING OF RETURN:
Not later than the twentieth day of the month the dealer shall transmit a
report of sale of motor fuel in the previous month to the village of West
Dundee on such forms and in such manner as prescribed by the village manager.
Each report of sale of motor fuel shall be accompanied by a remittance of the
appropriate amount of tax applicable to the sale reported and a signed copy of
Illinois department of revenue form ST-1 (sales and use tax return). (Ord.
2014-09, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-20-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The village manager may promulgate rules and regulations not inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter concerning the enforcement and application of
this chapter. The term "rules and regulations" includes, but is not limited to,
a case by case determination whether or not the tax imposed in this chapter
applies to a dealer or transaction. (Ord. 2014-09, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-20-8: FAILURE TO PAY TAX WHEN DUE:
If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate of two
percent (2%) per month on the amount of tax which remains unpaid shall be added
and collected. Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax herein provided,
the village may bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment
of said tax on behalf of the village of West Dundee in any court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 2014-09, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-20-9: RECORDS:
   A.   Each dealer shall keep books which, at a minimum, include:
      1.   The number of gallons of motor fuel sold at retail each day by the
dealer in the village of West Dundee.
      2.   The actual motor fuel tax collected for each day by the dealer.
   B.   The village manager or his designee shall at all reasonable times have
full access to such records.
   C.   To the extent permitted by law, the financial records of any dealer
submitted pursuant to this chapter or any rule and regulation promulgated
thereunder shall not be available for public inspection in order to protect the
dealer's right to privacy. (Ord. 2014-09, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-20-10: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE FOR FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
If the village manager, after hearing held by him, shall find that any dealer
has wilfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this chapter, he may suspend
or revoke all village licenses held by said dealer. The dealer, or a
representative thereof, shall have an opportunity to be heard, and such hearing
to be held not less than ten (10) days after notice of the time and place of
the hearing addressed to the dealer at his last known place of business has
been deposited in the United States mail with postage prepaid. The suspension
or revocation of any license shall not release or discharge the dealer from
civil liability for the payment of the tax nor for prosecution of such offense.
(Ord. 2014-09, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-20-11: DISPOSITION OF RECORDS OF TAX:
All proceedings resulting from the imposition of the tax under this chapter,
including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the village of West
Dundee and shall be credited to and deposited in the general corporate fund of
the village. (Ord. 2014-09, 4-21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
3-20-12: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter, when otherwise specifically provided, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 2014-09, 4-
21-2014, eff. 6-1-2014)
CHAPTER 21
HOTEL, MOTEL, BED AND BREAKFAST AND SHORT TERM RENTAL TAX
SECTION:
3-21-1: Tax Imposed, Rental
3-21-2: Duty To Collect Tax From User
3-21-3: Payments To Village
3-21-4: Enforcement; License Revocation
3-21-1: TAX IMPOSED, RENTAL:
A tax is hereby levied and imposed upon all users, lessees or tenants renting,
leasing, or letting a room or rooms in a hotel, motel, short term rental, or
bed and breakfast establishment operating in the Village at a rate of six
percent (6%) of the gross rental receipts from such rental, leasing or letting.
The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax shall be borne
by the user, lessee or tenant of said room or rooms. The tax herein levied
shall be in addition to any and all other taxes. (Ord. 18-17, 9-10-2018)
3-21-2: DUTY TO COLLECT TAX FROM USER:
The owner and operator of any hotel, motel, bed and breakfast establishment or
short term rental licensed by the Village (the "licensee") for a period of less
than thirty (30) days, shall jointly and severally bear the duty to collect the
tax from each user, lessee or tenant of rooms. Every licensee is required to
collect the tax levied by ordinance and shall secure said tax from the user,
lessee or tenant of a room or rooms at the time the pricing, charge or rent is
collected. (Ord. 18-17, 9-10-2018)
3-21-3: PAYMENTS TO VILLAGE:
   A.   Enforcement Officer: The Finance Director hereby is designated as the
Administration and Enforcement Officer of the tax hereby imposed on behalf of
the Village. It shall be the responsibility and duty of the Finance Director to
collect all amounts due the Village from all licensees in the Village, engaged
in the business of renting, leasing, or letting rooms.
   B.   Tax Return Filing: An Occupancy Tax return shall be filed by the
licensee in the Village, engaged in the business of renting, leasing, or
letting rooms with the Finance Director, on forms prescribed by him or her,
showing all receipts from each renting, leasing or letting of rooms during the
reporting period. Effective with the reporting period beginning September 1,
2018, and for all subsequent reporting periods, the tax returns are to be
prepared and submitted on a monthly reporting period basis. The tax return and
payment of the tax due shall be received or postmarked on or before the last
day of the month succeeding monthly reporting period.
   C.   Payment: Each tax return shall be accompanied by payment to the Village
of all taxes due and owing for the reporting period covered by the tax return.
   D.   Books And Records: The Finance Director or any person certified by him
or her may enter the premises of the licensee, or may request access from any
other persons engaged in the business of renting, leasing, or letting rooms for
the purposes of inspection and examination of its books and records for the
proper administration of this chapter, and for the enforcement of collection of
the tax hereby imposed. It is unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or
interfere with the Finance Director or any duly authorized deputy or
representative in the discharge of the duties of the Finance Director
hereunder.
   E.   Duty To Maintain Records: The licensee shall jointly and severally bear
the duty and responsibility to maintain records of taxes collected from each
user, lessee or tenant of the rooms for a period of three (3) years from the
time the tax is due and owing. Any records in excess of three (3) years may be
disposed. (Ord. 18-17, 9-10-2018)
3-21-4: ENFORCEMENT; LICENSE REVOCATION:
   A.   Whenever any licensee shall fail to obtain a license as required by
this Code, the Village shall bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce
such persons to obtain such license and be liable for all taxes as imposed by
this chapter from the date of commencement of operation and such other fines as
determined as a result of such action.
   B.   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any taxes herein provided, or
when any licensee in the Village, shall fail to collect the tax hereby imposed
from any person who has the ultimate liability for payment of the same, the
Village Attorney shall, upon request of the Finance Director, bring or cause to
be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the
Village.
   C.   If the Village President, after a hearing, shall find that the owner,
operator or licensee has willfully evaded his responsibility to collect the tax
imposed by this chapter, the Village President may suspend or revoke all
Village licenses held by such tax evader. Said person shall have an opportunity
to be heard at such hearing, to be held not less than five (5) days after
notice of the time and place thereof, addressed to the last known place of
business. Any suspension or conviction resulting from such hearing shall not
relieve or discharge any civil liability for non-payment of the tax due. (Ord.
18-17, 9-10-2018)
CHAPTER 22
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-22-1:    Tax Imposed, Rate, Collection Of Tax
3-22-1: TAX IMPOSED, RATE, COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate:
      1.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
      2.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).
   B.   Collection Of Tax By Retailers:
      1.   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
      2.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-22, 9-23-2019)
CHAPTER 23
REGULATION OF USE OF CANNABIS, SYNTHETIC TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL, AND ILLICIT
PSYCHOACTIVE SUBSTANCES
SECTION:
3-23-1: Definitions
3-23-2: Registration
3-23-3: Regulations And Restrictions
3-23-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever reference is made in this chapter to the "Illinois Cannabis Act" or
the "Cannabis Act" it shall mean the Cannabis Regulations and Tax Act of
Illinois approved June 25, 2019, in force January 1, 2020. All other words and
phrases used herein shall have the same meaning as the same or similar words or
phrases defined by and used in said Cannabis Regulations and Tax Act, including
the following:
ACT: The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act of Illinois approved 6-25-19 as Public
Act 101-0027.
ADVERTISE: To engage in promotional activities including, but not limited to:
newspaper, radio, Internet and electronic media, and television advertising;
the distribution of fliers and circulars; and the display of window and
interior signs.
CANNABIS: Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plan Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, "cannabis" does not include the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant is incapable of
germination. "Cannabis" does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. "Cannabis" also means concentrate and
cannabis-infused products.
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft grower, processing
organization, dispensing organization, or transporting organization.
CANNABIS CONTAINER: A sealed, traceable container, or package used for the
purpose of containment of cannabis or cannabis-infused product during
transportation.
DEL TA-9 TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL: The principal psychoactive compound found in
cannabis plants.
DISPENSARY: A facility operated by a dispensing organization at which
activities licensed by the Act may occur.
DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an organization or business
that is licensed by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to
acquire cannabis from a cultivation center, craft grower, processing
organization, or another dispensary for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related
supplies under this Act to purchasers or to qualified registered medical
cannabis patients and caregivers.
HEMP: A variety of cannabis saliva plant containing less than 0.3% Delta-
9 tetrahydrocannabinol.
HEMP-DERIVED CANNABINOID: A naturally occurring compound extracted from the
hemp variety of the cannabis saliva plant.
ILLICIT PSYCHOACTIVE SUBSTANCE: For purposes of this chapter, an illicit
psychoactive substance refers to Kratom, Tianeptine, and any substance not
already prohibited by law or ordinance, that has, is represented as having, or
is intended to have a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the
central nervous system that is substantially similar to, or greater than, the
stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system
of a of any controlled substance or controlled substance analog as defined by
the Illinois Controlled Substances Act. This excludes legally possessed,
transferred, sold, delivered, displayed, or advertised alcohol, cannabis, and
prescription medication.
KRATOM: Any part of the plant Mitragyna Speciosa, whether growing or not, and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of that
plant, including but not limited to mitragynine and 7-hydroxymitragynine.
OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL: Ownership of at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the
business, including corporate stock if a corporation, and control over the
management and day-to-day operations of the business and an interest in the
capital, assets, and profits and losses of the business proportionate to
percentage of ownership.
PERSON: A natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian, or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
PSYCHOACTIVE SUBSTANCE: Any substance that, when taken in or administered into
one's system, affect mental processes, e.g. perception, consciousness,
cognition or mood and emotions.
SYNTHETIC TETRAHYDROCANNABINO L: Excluding legally prescribed medication, any
hemp-derived cannabinoid or other compound that is altered or crafted to mimic
the psychoactive effects of +0.3% Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol.
TIANEPTINE: An unregulated antidepressant drug that can produce opioid-like
effects. (Ord. 2019-27, 12-2-2019; amd. Ord. 2025-23, 4-21-2025)
3-23-2: REGISTRATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a dispensary within the
boundaries of the village without having first registered with the village
clerk and submitting the following information:
   A.   Name and address of all persons owning ten percent (10%) or more of the
dispensing organization; contact information for each person listed;
   B.   Location and description of operation;
   C.   Hours of operation; and,
   D.   A copy of the license issued by the Illinois Department of Financial
and Professional Registration;
   E.   Name, address and contact information for each manager. (Ord. 2019-27,
12-2-2019)
3-23-3: REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to locate a dispensary within one thousand five
hundred (1,500) feet of another dispensary.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to operate a dispensary between the hours of ten
o’clock (10:00) P.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to advertise cannabis or a cannabis infused
product in any form or through any medium:
      1.   Within one thousand (1,000) feet of the perimeter of school grounds,
a playground, a recreation center or facility, a child care center, a public
park or public library, or a game arcade where admission is not restricted to
persons twenty-one (21) years of age or older;
      2.   In or on a public transit vehicle or public transit shelter; or
      3.   On publicly owned or public operated property.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to possess or use cannabis on a school bus,
grounds of a pre-school primary or secondary school, unless used by a
qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use or Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
   E.   It shall be unlawful to possess or use cannabis in a private residence
used at any time to provide licensed childcare;
   F.   It shall be unlawful to use cannabis in any motor vehicle, in any
public place or in any place where smoking is prohibited under the Smoke Free
Illinois Act;
   G.   It shall be unlawful to facilitate the use of cannabis by a person not
allowed to use cannabis under the Act;
   H.   It shall be unlawful to knowingly use cannabis in close proximity to
anyone under the age of twenty-one (21) who is not a registered medical
cannabis patient under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
   I.   It shall be unlawful to grow cannabis unless authorized by the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
   J.   It shall be unlawful for a person who is twenty-one (21) years or older
and a resident of Illinois to possess more than:
      1.   Thirty (30) grams of cannabis flower;
      2.   Five hundred (500) milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused
product; or
      3.   Five (5) grams of cannabis concentrate.
   K.   It shall be unlawful for a non-resident of Illinois to possess more
than:
      1.   Fifteen (15) grams of cannabis flower;
      2.   Two hundred fifty (250) grams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused
product; or
      3.   Two and a half (2.5) grams of cannabis concentrate.
   L.   It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian to knowingly permit his
or her residence or any other private property under his or her control, or any
vehicle under his or her control to permit the consumption of cannabis, or
product containing synthetic tetrahydrocannabinol, or product containing any
illicit psychoactive substance by a person under the age of twenty-one (21).
   M.   It shall be unlawful to purchase or sell cannabis anywhere within the
boundaries of the village unless the sale is made by a cannabis dispensary
licensed by the State of Illinois and registered with the village at an
approved location.
   N.   It shall be unlawful for any person registered as a patient in the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program to grow more than five (5)
cannabis plants.
   O.   It shall be unlawful to transfer, purchase possess, use, transport,
consume, or grow cannabis by any person under twenty-one (21) years of age
(unless authorized by the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act).
   P.   It shall be unlawful to sell, deliver, display, or advertise any
product containing synthetic tetrahydrocannabinol or any product containing an
illicit psychoactive substance anywhere within the boundaries of the village.
   Q.   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age
to possess any product containing synthetic tetrahydrocannabinol or any product
containing an illicit psychoactive substance anywhere within the boundaries of
the village.
   R.   It shall be unlawful to knowingly transfer or cause to be transferred
any product containing synthetic tetrahydrocannabinol or any product containing
an illicit psychoactive substance to a person under the age of twenty-one (21)
anywhere within the boundaries of the village. (Ord. 2019-27, 12-2-2019; amd.
Ord. 2025-23, 4-21-2025)
CHAPTER 24
HOTELS AND EXTENDED STAY ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-24-1: Definitions
3-24-2: License Required
3-24-3: License Issuance And Renewal
3-24-4: Training Of Employees
3-24-5: Entry Doors
3-24-6: Hourly Rentals
3-24-7: Rental Of Rooms To Persons Under Twenty-One Years Of Age
3-24-8: Housekeeping Services
3-24-9: Maximum Stay Length
3-24-10: Responsibilities Of All Hotels, Motels Or Extended Stay Hotels
3-24-11: Occupancy Requirements
3-24-12: Common Area And Parking Illumination Requirements
3-24-13: Video Surveillance
3-24-14: Loitering And Juvenile Curfew
3-24-15: Unlawful Operation Declared Nuisance
3-24-16: Designated Manager
3-24-17: Penalties
3-24-18: Emergency Closure
3-24-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings, and are
hereby defined as follows:
               Nuisance Incidents and Aggravated Nuisance Incidents are those incidents where
ALLEGED:       a crime that would constitute a nuisance incident or aggravated nuisance
               incident has been reported and verified but a perpetrator has not been
               charged.
EXTENDED STAY  A hotel which offers services and facilities designed to appeal to longer-term
HOTEL:         guests, such as laundry and kitchen facilities, and may quote rates on a
               weekly or monthly basis.
GUEST:         A person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy in a hotel by
               reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement.
HEARING        For the purposes of this Chapter 24 only, Hearing Officer means either (i) a
OFFICER:       Village administrative hearing officer appointed pursuant to Chapter 8 of
               Title 6 of this Code; or (ii) the Village Manager or their designee.
               Any public or private space or structure, including but not limited to, any
               inn, hostelry, tourist home, motel, lodging house or motel rooming house
HOTEL:         offering space for sleeping or overnight accommodations in exchange for rent.
               Hotel includes the parking lot and other common areas of the hotel. Hotel does
               not include living accommodations provided at any governmental or nonprofit
               institution in connection with the functions of that institution.
IDENTIFICATION A government issued document that contains the name, date of birth,
DOCUMENT:      description, and picture of a person.
OCCUPANCY:     The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any room in
               any hotel or extended stay hotel.
               The proprietor of the hotel or extended stay hotel, or any other person who
OPERATOR:      has the right to rent rooms within the hotel or extended stay hotel, whether
               in the capacity of owner, manager, lessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee,
               employee or in any other capacity.
RECORD:        Written documentation of information about a guest. A record may be maintained
               electronically, in a book or on cards.
               The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy of a
RENT:          room in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor
               or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services
               of any kind or nature.
               A request to hold a room for a potential guest that includes the following
RESERVATION:   information and is documented in writing: (i) the potential guest’s name and
               contact information; and (ii) the date and time when the contact was made.
ROOM:          Any portion of a hotel or extended stay hotel, which is designed, used or
               intended for occupancy by a person for temporary lodging or sleeping purposes.
               Any car, truck, trailer, motorcycle, or other machinery used for transporting
VEHICLE:       people or goods and is normally required to be registered with a state in
               order to be legally operated or towed on a public roadway.
               A person, who is not a guest, who is on the premises of a hotel or extended
VISITOR:       stay hotel at the invitation of a guest, but without the express permission of
               the operator of the hotel or extended stay hotel. (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022; amd.
               Ord. 22-26, 9-12-2022)
 
3-24-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm, or corporation shall operate a hotel or extended stay hotel
without first obtaining a license therefor as provided for by Village Code. No
license shall be transferable to another person, firm, corporation, or location
or to other hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel guest units. (Ord. 22-04, 1-
17-2022; amd. Ord. 22-26, 9-12-2022)
3-24-3: LICENSE ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL:
No license shall be issued or renewed until the building and facilities have
been inspected and approved by the Village to assure compliance with the
standards set forth herein. (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022; amd. Ord. 22-26, 9-12-2022)
3-24-4: TRAINING OF EMPLOYEES:
The operator of a hotel or extended stay hotel shall provide training to its
employees to ensure that such employees comply with the provisions of this
Ordinance. (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022)
3-24-5: ENTRY DOORS:
For any hotel or extended stay hotel permitted for construction after the date
of adoption of this Ordinance, any public-facing entry points to the premises
must require a magnetic or electronic keycard/locking device for access. Within
one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of this Ordinance, all
public facing entry point doors for any hotel or extended stay hotel shall have
operating automatic closures, key entry and shall remain locked at all times
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Additionally, all entry point
doors shall be equipped with an alarm or other device that will alert hotel or
extended stay hotel security, attendants, or other employees that the door has
been opened or remains open. These requirements are not applicable to entry
points that enter directly into the lobby of the hotel, motel, or extended stay
hotel as long as the lobby is manned by a bona fide employee twenty-four (24)
hours a day. These requirements are also not applicable to entry points that
enter directly into a banquet hall, conference room, or other facility utilized
for a special event or meeting hosted by a hotel, motel, or extended stay
hotel, as long as, there is a bona fide employee staffing the banquet hall,
conference room, or other facility utilized for the duration of that event.
(Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022)
3-24-6: HOURLY RENTALS:
No operator of a hotel or extended stay hotel shall provide lodging at an
hourly rate. (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022)
3-24-7: RENTAL OF ROOMS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any hotel or extended stay hotel to rent a
room to any individual under the age of twenty-one (21).
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, at least twenty-one (21) years of
age, to knowingly rent a hotel or extended stay hotel room for any individual
under the age of twenty-one (21).
   C.   A hotel or extended stay hotel may rent a room to a person under the
age of twenty-one (21) if said individual is part of a bonafide school or
sports group, convention, corporate meeting, pageant or other major contracted
booking at the hotel or extended stay hotel and a copy of the contract is on
file at the hotel or extended stay hotel. (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022; amd. Ord. 22-
26, 9-12-2022)
3-24-8: HOUSEKEEPING SERVICES:
All hotels and extended stay hotels shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall provide housekeeping services, including but not limited to
room cleaning, linen change, and towel service not less than once every seven
(7) days, and any time prior to a new guest checking in to a room. (Ord. 22-04,
1-17-2022)
3-24-9: MAXIMUM STAY LENGTH:
   A.   No hotel or extended stay hotel located within the Village shall allow
any person to occupy such facility for more than twenty-eight (28) consecutive
days unless otherwise permitted in this section. No guest residing for more
than twenty-eight (28) consecutive days shall begin a new rental agreement with
the hotel or extended stay hotel without at least a two-day vacancy between
stays.
   B.   No hotel or extended stay hotel located within the Village shall allow
any person to occupy such hotel or extended stay hotel as his or her permanent
residence, and/or to utilize the hotel or extended stay hotel address as his or
her mailing address.
   C.   Notwithstanding subsections (A) and (B) of section
3-24-9, a stay in excess of twenty-eight (28) consecutive days may occur in the
following situations:
      1.   Where there is a written contract or documented agreement between a
hotel or extended stay hotel and a business, corporation, firm or governmental
agency to house employees or individuals on valid work orders;
      2.   Where there is documentation, consistent with HIPPA privacy rules,
that a hotel guest is considered family or is providing care for a patient who
is admitted at local hospital;
      3.   When an insurance company or federal, state, or local agency has
provided documentation that a hotel guest has been displaced from their home by
a natural disaster or fire; or
      4.   Where there is a written contract or documented agreement between a
hotel or extended stay hotel and an organization to provide emergency or
transitional housing/shelter. (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022)
3-24-10: RESPONSIBILITIES OF ALL HOTELS, MOTELS, OR EXTENDED STAY HOTELS:
   A.   Every owner, operator, keeper or proprietor of any hotel or extended
stay hotel, shall, without delay, report violations of law to the police
department that were either witnessed or made known to them by an employee,
guest, visitor, or other person on the premises.
   B.   Every owner, operator, keeper or proprietor of any hotel or extended
stay hotel, shall, at all times, maintain a manager on duty or on-call capable
of assisting, communicating, and cooperating with the police or other law
enforcement officials in maintaining the public health, welfare, and safety.
   C.   All information required to be procured and kept pursuant to this
Ordinance shall be kept strictly confidential in accordance with state and
federal law and shall not be provided to any person except to a federal, state,
or local law enforcement officer or to any officer empowered to enforce this
article.
   D.   All information required to be procured and kept pursuant to this
Ordinance shall be provided to any federal or state law enforcement officers,
or local sworn enforcement officer empowered to enforce this article, upon
demand, and in no event later than twenty-four (24) hours of the officer and a
representation by said officer that a reasonable suspicion exists that such
information is relevant to a then-pending inquiry or investigation. Nothing in
this requirement shall be construed as giving such officer any greater right or
license to enter a room or invade privacy than the officer shall otherwise
possess as a matter of law, probable cause, constitutional law, statutory
right, or warrant.
   E.   Every owner, operator, keeper or proprietor of any hotel or extended
stay hotel, shall keep a record of all rental agreements between the hotel or
extended stay hotel and all guests and their visitors, and make these records
available to the Village within a reasonable time upon request. For the
purposes of this section, the term “record” shall mean the hotel or extended
stay hotel’s electronic guest registration system which stores guest
identifying information. In the event the hotel or extended stay hotel does not
have an electronic guest registration system, the hotel or extended stay hotel
shall record the guest and any visitor’s information in a paper record or
reservation/registration book. The following information, at a minimum, must be
recorded at the time of registration (either by electronic or paper means) and
maintained for a period of no less than one year after the rental agreement’s
termination.
      1.   A copy of the identification document of, along with the phone
number, and home address of each overnight guest. If the guest is a tourism
company or other business, only the guest shall be required to provide this
information, but the total number of people staying under that tourism company
or other business shall be provided;
      2.   The make, model, type, color, and license number of all guests’
vehicle(s) if the vehicle will be parked on hotel or extended stay hotel
premises that are under the control of the operator or management;
      3.   The day, month, year, and time of arrival of each guest;
      4.   The room number or other identifying symbol of location of the room
rented or assigned to each guest;
      5.   The date that each guest is scheduled to depart;
      6.   The rate charged, and amount collected for rental of the room
assigned to each guest;
      7.   The method of payment for the room;
      8.   A copy of the identification document of the person renting the
room; and
      9.   Documentation used to verify a stay in excess of twenty-eight (28)
consecutive days as stated in section
3-24-9.
   F.   Every owner, operator, keeper or proprietor of any hotel or extended
stay hotel shall require each guest to provide a proper identification
document, as defined in
3-24-1, prior to renting a room when registering in person, to ensure
compliance with
3-24-7. A record (copy) of the provided Proper Identification Documents shall
be kept on file for the duration of the occupancy and for no less than one year
after the rental agreement’s termination.
   G.   Every owner, operator, keeper or proprietor of any hotel or extended
stay hotel shall utilize an online ecommerce age verification system for online
rentals or reservations, to ensure compliance with
3-24-7. A record of the provided online age verification shall be kept on file
for the duration of the occupancy and for no less than one year after the
rental agreement’s termination.
   H.   No person shall procure or provide lodging in any hotel or extended
stay hotel, or any services therefrom, through misrepresentation or production
of false identification, or identification which misrepresents the identity of
the person procuring or sharing in such lodging or service. (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-
2022; amd. Ord. 22-26, 9-12-2022)
3-24-11: OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No owner, operator, keeper or proprietor of any hotel or extended stay
hotel shall rent or provide a room for any number of persons greater than the
sleeping accommodations provided within the particular rental unit or temporary
sleeping accommodations provided by the hotel or extended stay hotel.
   B.   No owner, operator, keeper or proprietor, guest or visitor of any hotel
or extended stay hotel shall be allowed to congregate within any room or single
rental unit, a number of persons which is greater than two (2) times the number
of persons for whom sleeping accommodations are provided within the single room
or rental unit, except when temporarily designated as a hospitality suite by
the hotel or extended stay hotel. (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022)
3-24-12: COMMON AREA AND PARKING ILLUMINATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All common areas and expressly including the parking lot of the hotel
or extended stay hotel shall be lighted at all times they are open.
   B.   Within one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date of this
Ordinance, any hotel or extended stay hotel must provide and maintain a
security plan, approved annually in writing by the chief of police, which shall
include all implemented security measures for both the hotel and its common
areas including any parking area. All security plans must include a video
surveillance system (“VSS”) which shall be maintained in proper working order
and shall record all events in all public and common areas of the hotel or
extended stay hotel. Recordings from the VSS shall kept for not less than 21
days and shall be turned over to the chief of police immediately upon request.
   C.   The chief of police and the building official shall inspect or cause to
be inspected every hotel or extended stay hotel operated in the Village as
frequently as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
Ordinance. (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022)
3-24-13: VIDEO SURVEILLANCE:
   A.   For the purpose of this section, “video surveillance system” (VSS)
means a continuous digital surveillance system including cameras, cabling,
monitors, and digital video recorders (DVR).
   B.   Every owner, operator, keeper, or proprietor of any new or existing
hotel or extended stay hotel is required to install a VSS within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the effective date of this Ordinance. All hotels and
extended stay hotels, which have installed a VSS prior to the effective date of
this Ordinance, shall ensure said systems are in full compliance with this
section and request an approval assessment from the chief of police within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date of this Ordinance.
   C.   All VSS shall be maintained in the proper working order at all times,
be kept in continuous operation twenty-four (24) hours-per-day, seven (7) days-
per-week, and meet the minimum technological standards established in this
section. The hotel or extended stay hotel shall retain the continuous digital
video recording and images, recorded by this system, for no less than twenty-
one (21) days.
   D.   All VSS shall have no less than one (1) camera dedicated to each
register or checkout stand, entrance/exit, interior hallways and lobby,
swimming pool area, exercise facility, loading dock, and parking lots or areas
designated for customer and/or employee parking use. The placement of cameras
included in the VSS required under this section must be approved by the chief
of police or his/her designee. The police department will assess each site
required to install a VSS prior to installation of said system, and upon
approval, will issue an approval notice, which will be placed in plain view
inside the common area of the hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel. This
approval notice will also inform customers and employees of the presence of the
VSS. Existing VSS at any hotel, motel or extended stay hotel, as of the
effective date of this Ordinance will be evaluated to ensure full compliance
with this section.
   G.   The VSS shall be a minimum of 720p resolution, capable of displaying
resolution measuring 1280 X 720 pixels. (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022; amd. Ord. 22-
26, 9-12-2022)
3-24-14: LOITERING AND JUVENILE CURFEW:
   A.   All hotel or extended stay hotel operators shall post signage that
loitering is prohibited.
   B.   No person(s) shall loiter in or upon any hotel or extended stay hotel
property, parking lot, public parking structure or in or around any building to
include breezeways, stairwells, or hotel or extended stay hotel rooms, either
on foot or in or upon any conveyance being driven or parked thereon, without
the permission of the owner, operator, keeper or proprietor of the hotel or
extended stay hotel.
   C.   Curfew for minors, shall be enforced in the areas designated in 3-24-14
(B). (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022)
3-24-15: UNLAWFUL OPERATION DECLARED NUISANCE:
Any hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel operated, conducted, or maintained
contrary to the provisions of this Ordinance, may be declared to be unlawful
and a public nuisance. The Village hereby defines to be a Nuisance Hotel any
hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel at which either (1) there has been an
indictment, or conviction, judgment, or finding of liability by a court or
hearing officer, for three or more nuisance incidents or two or more aggravated
nuisance incidents, within any 180-day period; or (2) five or more alleged
Nuisance Incidents or Aggravated Nuisance Incidents have occurred within any
60-day period,, as reasonably determined by the Village Police Chief. The
Village of West Dundee may, in addition, or in lieu of all other remedies,
commence actions or proceedings for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof,
in the manner provided by state law and this Code.
   A.   Prevention Of Nuisance Incidents:
      1.   It is unlawful for a hotel Operator to consent to, facilitate,
cause, allow, or encourage a Nuisance Incident or Aggravated Nuisance Incident.
      2.   Every person has the following affirmative duties with respect to
any hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel for which they are a hotel Operator:
(i) to refrain from encouraging or permitting a hotel, motel, or extended stay
hotel to become or remain a Nuisance Hotel; and (ii) to take affirmative
actions to prevent, mitigate, control, or otherwise address any activity which
constitutes a Nuisance Incident or Aggravated Nuisance Incident
      3.   Each day on which a violation of this Section 3-24-15 occurs or
continues constitutes a separate offense.
   B.   Nuisance Incident: Except as provided in Section 3-24-15(D) of this
Code, any of the following events or actions:
      1.   Disorderly conduct, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/26-1;
      2.   Unlawful use of weapons, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.;
      3.   Mob action, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/25-1;
      4.   Gambling, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/28-1;
      5.   Possession, manufacture, or delivery of controlled substances, as
defined in 720 ILCS 570/401 et seq.;
      6.   Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol, as defined in 235 ILCS
5/1 et seq.;
      7.   Public indecency, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-30;
      8.   Assault or battery or any related offense, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/
12- 1 et seq.;
      9.   Sexual abuse or a related offense, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/12-15 et
seq.;
      10.   Prostitution, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-14 et seq.;
      11.   Criminal damage to property, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/21-1 et seq.;
      12.   Unlawful possession, cultivation, manufacture, or delivery of
cannabis, as defined in 720 ILCS 550/3 et seq.;
      13.   Theft, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/16-1 et seq.;
      14.   Criminal housing management, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/12-5.1;
      15   Street gang related or gang related activity, as defined in 740 ILCS
147/10 et seq.;
      16.   Violation of any provision of Title 10 of this code regarding
Zoning Regulations;
      17.   Violation of any provision of Title 9 of this code regarding
Building Regulations;
      18.   Violation of any provision of Title 6, Chapter 3 of this Code
regarding dogs and animals;
      19.   Violation of any provision of Title 3, Chapter 2 of this Code
regarding Liquor Control;
      20.   Violation of any provision of Article III of Chapter 8 of this Code
regarding gambling;
      21.   Violation of any provision of Article VIII of Chapter 8 of this
Code regarding vandalism;
      22.   Violation of any provision of Article I of Chapter 19 of this Code
regarding garbage and refuse;
      23.   Any activity that constitutes a felony or a Class A misdemeanor
pursuant to any applicable local, state, or federal law; and
      24.   Any Aggravated Nuisance Incident.
   C.   Aggravated Nuisance Incident: Except as provided in Section 3-24-15(D)
of this Code, any of the following events or actions:
      1.   Aggravated assault, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/12-2;
      2.   Aggravated battery, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/12-3.05;
      3.   Aggravated or reckless discharge of a firearm, as defined in 720
ILCS 5/24-1.2 and 1.5;
      4.   Armed violence, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/33A-2;
      5.   Possession of explosives or incendiary devices, as defined in 720
ILCS 5/20-2 et seq.
      6.   Homicide, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/9-1;
      7.   Criminal street gang recruitment, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/12-6.4;
      8.   Criminal sexual abuse, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-1.50; and
      9.   Unlawful participation in street gang related activity, as defined
in 720 ILCS 5/25-5.
   D.   Nuisance Incidents And Aggravated Nuisance Incidents Do Not Include:
      1.   Contact made to police or other emergency services: (i) with the
intent to prevent or respond to domestic violence or sexual violence; (ii)
where intervention or emergency assistance was needed to respond to or prevent
domestic violence or sexual violence; or (iii) contacts made by, on behalf of,
or otherwise concerning an individual with a disability for a purpose related
to that individual’s disability;
      2.   An incident or incidents of actual or threatened domestic violence
or sexual violence occurring within the Village; or
      3.   Public nuisances occurring within the Village that are directly
related to domestic violence, engaged in by a hotel, motel, or extended stay
hotel, guest, a member of the hotel, motel or extended stay hotel guest’s
household, or other party, and against a hotel, motel or extended stay hotel
guest or other party.
   E.   Determination Of A Nuisance Incident:
      1.   Initial Determination:
         a.   If the Village Police Chief makes an initial determination that a
hotel, motel or extended stay hotel within the Village has been the site of:
(i) two Nuisance Incidents or one Aggravated Nuisance Incident within a 180-day
period; or (ii) two alleged Nuisance Incidents or Aggravated Nuisance Incidents
within a 30-day period the Police Chief must notify the Village Manager that
the hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel is at risk of becoming a Nuisance
Hotel.
         b.   Within five business days after the Police Chief’s initial
determination, the Police Chief must provide written notification to the owner
of record of the hotel, motel or extended stay hotel, and any other hotel
Operators of record, that the hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel is at risk
of becoming a Nuisance Hotel. The initial notice must include: (i) the street
address of the hotel , motel or extended stay hotel; (ii) a concise description
of the events or activities that constitute Nuisance Incidents, Aggravated
Nuisance Incidents, or alleged Nuisance Incidents or Aggravated Nuisance
Incidents; (iii) an invitation to meet with the Village Manager within the
following 30 days to negotiate a voluntary abatement agreement with the
Village; and (iv) contact information for the Village Manager or Police Chief.
         c.   Copies of the initial notice must be provided by personal service
or sent by first-class mail, postage pre-paid, return receipt requested.
      2.   Final Determination:
         a.   If the Police Chief makes a final determination that a hotel,
motel or extended stay hotel has been the site of: (i) more than two Nuisance
Incidents or more than one Aggravated Nuisance Incident within a 180-day
period; or (ii) more than four alleged Nuisance Incidents or Aggravated
Nuisance Incident within a 60-day period, the Police Chief must notify the
Village Manager that the hotel, motel or extended stay hotel may qualify as a
Nuisance Hotel.
         b.   Within five business days after the Police Chief’s final
determination, the Police Chief must provide written notification to the owner
of record of the hotel, motel or extended stay hotel, and any other Hotel
Operator of record, stating that the hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel may
be subject to action under this Section 3-24-15. The final notice must include:
(i) the street address of the hotel , motel or extended stay hotel; (ii) a
concise description of the events or activities that constitute Nuisance
Incidents, Aggravated Nuisance Incidents, or alleged Nuisance Incidents or
Aggravated Nuisance Incidents; (iii) a demand that the Hotel Authority
immediately address the conditions qualifying it as a Nuisance Hotel; (iv)
information regarding the time and location of any upcoming hearing scheduled
pursuant to this Section 3-24-15; and (v) contact information for the Village
Manager or Police Chief.
         c.   Copies of the initial notice must be provided by personal service
or sent by first-class mail, postage pre-paid, return receipt requested and
posted at the hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel property.
   F.   Voluntary Abatement Agreement: Upon receipt of a notice pursuant to
Section 3-24-15 E.1.b. of this Code, but prior to entry of an order pursuant to
Section 3-24-15 G. of this Code, the owner of the subject hotel, motel, or
extended stay hotel, may request that the Village and the owner enter into a
voluntary abatement agreement, providing for the performance of specific
actions by the owner or its designee to address any previously-occurring
Nuisance Incidents or Aggravated Nuisance Incidents and to reasonably prevent
the occurrence of future Nuisance Incidents or Aggravated Nuisance Incidents,
and for the agreement by the Village to suspend any proceedings under Section
3-24-15 G. of this Code during the term of the agreement, all subject to such
terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed by the Village and the owner.
The Village Manager is hereby authorized, in their discretion, to execute any
voluntary abatement agreement that the Manager determines will reasonably
prevent and abate Nuisance Incidents or Aggravated Nuisance Incidents.
   G.   Enforcement Procedures:
      1.   The Village may bring an action before a Hearing Officer or a court
of competent jurisdiction for a declaration that a hotel, motel or extended
stay hotel is a Nuisance Hotel, and entry of an abatement order.
      2.   Upon conducting an evidentiary hearing, the Hearing Officer or court
may declare that a hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel is a Nuisance Hotel and
issue an order directing the appropriate hotel Operator to implement abatement
measures pursuant to Section 3-24-24 as the Hearing Officer or court deems
necessary or appropriate. Any decision of a Hearing Officer pursuant to this
Section is subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, 735
ILCS 5/3-101, et seq.
   H.   Nuisance Hotel Remedies: Upon declaring a hotel, motel, or extended
stay hotel, to be a Nuisance Hotel, a Hearing Officer or court may impose any
of the following remedies:
      1.   Fines and Fees:
         a.   Fines imposed against the owner of the hotel, motel, or extended
stay hotel, in an amount not to exceed $750 for each Nuisance Incident,
Aggravated Nuisance Incident, or alleged Nuisance Incident or Aggravated
Nuisance Incident related to the declaration that the hotel, motel, or extended
stay hotel is a Nuisance Hotel. The fines imposed under this Section 3-24-15
H.1.a. are in addition to any fines imposed for any independent violation of
law which relates to a finding of a Nuisance Hotel Violation.
         b.   Reimbursement of any extraordinary costs or expenses incurred by
the Village in the provision of law enforcement, fire protection, or emergency
medical services necessary as a result of the Nuisance Incidents, Aggravated
Nuisance Incidents, or alleged Nuisance Incidents or Aggravated Nuisance
Incidents.
      2.   Security measures. Mandatory initiation, installation, and
maintenance of additional security measures at the Nuisance Hotel property,
which may include, without limitation: (i) enhanced lighting; (ii) surveillance
cameras; (iii) fences or barriers to entry; and (iv) the hiring of security
personnel.
      3.   Temporary closure. The temporary closure and securing of the
Nuisance Hotel to prevent all use and occupancy for a period of up to 180
consecutive days.
      4.   License revocation. Revocation of the license for the hotel, motel,
or extended stay hotel, issued pursuant to Section
3-24-2 or
3-24-3 of this Code.
      5.   Other remedies. In addition to any fines, fees, costs, or other
remedies provided in this Section, the Village may seek a permanent or
temporary injunction, restraining order, the appointment of a receiver,
abatement measures, or other legal or equitable remedies reasonably necessary
for the prevention or abatement of nuisances at the hotel, motel, or extended
stay hotel.
      6.   Nothing in this Section is to be construed to: (i) constitute an act
of possession, ownership, or control by the Village over any private property;
(ii) deny a common law right to anyone to abate a nuisance; (iii) affect to the
status of any ongoing Village prosecution or other action; (iv) prevent the
issuance of a citation to or arrest or prosecution of any person for any
violation of the Village Code or other applicable law; or (iv) permit any
activity prohibited by law. (Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022; amd. Ord. 22-26, 9-12-2022)
3-24-16: DESIGNATED MANAGER:
The hotel or extended stay hotel shall ensure the contact information of the
hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel manager is kept current with the West
Dundee Police Department Chief of Police or his/her designee. (Ord. 22-04, 1-
17-2022)
3-24-17: PENALTIES:
If a person is convicted of a violation of this Ordinance, other than those
listed in section
3-24-15, the Hearing Officer, court or other adjudicative body shall impose a
fine of not less than $250.00 and not more than $1,000.00 for each violation.
(Ord. 22-04, 1-17-2022; amd. Ord. 22-26, 9-12-2022)
3-24-18: EMERGENCY CLOSURE:
If the Police Chief determines that a hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel,
presents an immediate threat to the public safety or welfare, the Chief may
order the immediate and summary closure of the hotel, motel, or extended stay
hotel, in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   The Chief may abate the threat to public safety, and summarily close
the hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel, by posting a notice on the hotel,
motel, or extended stay hotel, and mailing via certified mail a copy thereof to
the registered licensee of the hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel. The notice
must include, without limitation: (1) an order that all business activities
immediately cease at the hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel, (2) the reasons
for the summary closure; (3) information regarding the time and location of any
upcoming hearing scheduled, pursuant to Section 3-24-18 B. of this Code; and
(4) contact information for the Village Manager or Police Chief.
   B.   The owner of a hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel, summarily closed
pursuant to Section 3-24-18 A. is entitled to a hearing before the Hearing
Officer. The Hearing Officer must conduct the hearing within five days after
the filing by the owner of a hearing request. After receipt of evidence and
testimony at the hearing, the Hearing Officer may affirm, modify, or terminate
the summary closure order, in their discretion, as may be necessary in the
determination of the Hearing Officer to address any immediate threat presented
by the operation of the hotel, motel, or extended stay hotel,
   C.   Any summary closure order issued pursuant to Section 3-24-18 A. will
remain in effect until the earlier to occur of: (1) the termination of the
order by the Police Chief, upon a determination that the hotel, motel, or
extended stay hotel, no longer presents an immediate threat to the public
safety and welfare; (2) the termination of the order by the Hearing Officer,
pursuant to Section 3-24-18 B. of this Code; (3) entry of an order pursuant to
Section
3-24-15 G. of this Code; or (4) 60 days after the date of the order, unless the
Village has commenced an action for a declaration that the hotel, motel, or
extended stay hotel, is a Nuisance Hotel, and a hearing officer has found that
an extended closure of or permanent revocation of the hotel, motel, or extended
stay hotel’s occupancy license is a proper remedy pursuant to Section
3-24-15 of this Code. (Ord. 22-26, 9-12-2022)
CHAPTER 25
VIDEO GAMING PUSH TAX 1, 2, 3
SECTION:
3-25-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-25-2: Definitions
3-25-3: Amusement Tax Imposed
3-25-4: Tax Additional
3-25-5: Registration
3-25-6: Collection, Payment, And Accounting
3-25-7: Rules And Regulations; Authorized
3-25-8: Violations; Penalties
3-25-9: Application Of Village Code
 
1   Enforcement of West Dundee Village Code Title 3 Chapter 25 shall be stayed
pending final disposition of Illinois Gaming Machine Operators Association et
al. v. Village of Oak Lawn, Cook County, Illinois Case Number 2020-CH-02928,
and any subsequent appeals.
2   Title 3 Chapter 25 of the Village Code shall become enforceable upon
disposition of the afore-mentioned legal proceedings in favor of defendant, the
Village of Oak Lawn, holding that the Village's push tax is constitutional.
3   In the event the final determination of the Courts be that the Village of
Oak Lawn's push tax is unconstitutional and illegal, West Dundee Municipal Code
Title 3 Chapter 25 shall be considered null and void, with no further action
needed on the part of the Corporate Authorities of the Village.
3-25-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all amusements as hereinafter defined, whether specifically licensed or
regulated under other provisions of this code or other ordinances, or not.
(Ord. 2021-30, 10-31-2021)
3-25-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
                       (1) Any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular
                       performance, motion picture show, flower, poultry or
                       animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo, athletic
                       contest, sport, game or similar exhibition for public
                       entertainment, including, without being limited to,
                       boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing, swimming, racing,
AMUSEMENT:             or riding on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball,
                       softball, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and
                       field games, bowling, billiard and pool games. (2) Any
                       entertainment offered for public participation,
                       including, without being limited to, dancing, carnival,
                       amusement park rides and games, bowling, billiard and
                       pool games, or any Video Gaming Terminal.
                       Any natural individual that participates in an
                       amusement, including a firm, organization, society,
                       foundation, institution, partnership, association, joint
PERSON:                stock company, joint venture, limited liability company,
                       public or private corporation, receiver, executor,
                       trustee or other representative appointed by order of
                       any court, or any other entity recognized by law.
                       Each individual push of the Video Gaming Terminal which
                       initiates the simulation provided by the Video Gaming
PLAY:                  Terminal. Play shall not include the push of individual
                       wager amounts, selection of types of games on the Video
                       Gaming Terminal or entry of any information or printing
                       of winning receipts.
                       Any individual, partnership, corporation, or limited
                       liability company that is licensed under the Video
                       Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., and that owns,
TERMINAL OPERATOR:     services, and maintains Video Gaming Terminals for
                       placement in licensed establishments, licensed truck
                       stop establishments, licensed large truck stop
                       establishments, licensed fraternal establishments, or
                       licensed veterans establishments.
                       Any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion
                       of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any
                       combination thereof, is available to play or simulate
                       the play of a video game, including but not limited to
                       video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: the Illinois Gaming Board utilizing a video display and
                       microprocessors in which the player may receive free
                       games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term
                       does not include a machine that directly dispenses
                       coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement purposes
                       only. (Ord. 2021-30, 10-31-2021)
 
3-25-3: AMUSEMENT TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, an amusement tax is
imposed upon any person who participates in the Play of a Video Gaming Terminal
that takes place within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Village of West
Dundee.
   B.   The rate of the tax shall be equal to $0.01 (one cent) per Play on a
Video Gaming Terminal.
   C.   The Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming Terminal may separately itemize
and charge each Person who Plays a Video Gaming Terminal. (Ord. 2021-30, 10-31-
2021)
3-25-4: TAX ADDITIONAL:
The tax imposed in this chapter is in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political subdivision
thereof. (Ord. 2021-30, 10-31-2021)
3-25-5: REGISTRATION:
   A.   Every Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming Terminal(s) located in the
Village of West Dundee shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the
Village no later than thirty (30) days after commencing such business or thirty
(30) days after the effective date of this chapter imposing the Push Tax,
whichever occurs later.
   B.   The application shall be submitted to the Village on the forms provided
by the Village and contain such information as reasonably required by the
Village to impose, collect, and audit all amounts related to the Push Tax.
(Ord. 2021-30, 10-31-2021)
3-25-6: COLLECTION, PAYMENT, AND ACCOUNTING:
   A.   It shall be the joint and several duty of every Terminal Operator of a
Video Gaming Terminal(s) to secure from each Person participating in the Play
of a Video Gaming Terminal the Push Tax imposed by this chapter.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter, it shall be presumed that the amount of
the Push Tax imposed on each Person, unless the taxpayer or tax collector
provides otherwise with books, records, or other documentary evidence, has been
collected from the Person by the Terminal Operator.
   C.   Push Tax payments accompanied by tax returns prescribed by the Village
shall be remitted to the Village on or before the 20th day of the month
following the month in which payment for the Push Tax is made.
   D.   Every Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming Terminal who is required to
collect the Push Tax by this chapter shall be considered a tax collector for
the Village. All Push Tax amounts collected shall be held by the Terminal
Operator as trustee for and on behalf of the Village. The failure of the
Operator to collect the tax shall not excuse or release the Person from the
obligation to pay the tax.
   E.   The ultimate incidence of the Push Tax shall remain on the Person and
shall never be shifted to the Terminal Operator.
   F.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, in order to permit
sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the Village, no person shall be entitled
to a refund of, or credit for, the Push Tax imposed by this chapter unless the
person files a claim for a refund or credit within one (1) year after the date
on which the Push Tax was paid or remitted to the Village.
   G.   The Terminal Operator of any Video Gaming Terminal(s) shall be subject
to audit, inspection, and record keeping provisions of this Code.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any Terminal Operator and/or Person to
prevent, hinder, or interfere with the Village’s Officials, employees, and/or
agents designated to discharge their respective duties in the performance and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   I.   It is the duty of every Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming Terminal(s)
to keep accurate and complete books and records to which the Village’s
officials, employees, and/or agents will at all times have full access. (Ord.
2021-30, 10-31-2021)
3-25-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS; AUTHORIZED:
The Village is authorized to adopt, promulgate, and enforce any additional
rules and regulations pertaining to the interpretation, collection,
administration, and enforcement of this its Village Code of Ordinances. (Ord.
2021-30, 10-31-2021)
3-25-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for a Terminal Operator to fail to file
a report within the time prescribed in this chapter.
   A.   Report Required: A Terminal Operator who falsely reports or fails to
report the amount of Push Tax due as required by this chapter shall be in
violation of this chapter and is subject to the suspension and/or revocation of
their Terminal Operator License. All payments not remitted when due shall be
paid together with a penalty assessment on the unpaid balance at a rate of 1.5%
per month.
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: The Local Liquor Commissioner or
his or her designee shall have the power to suspend for not more than thirty
(30) days or revoke video gaming license issued under the provisions of this
chapter for cause, or if he/she determines that a Terminal Operator shall have
violated any of the provisions of this chapter, any of the statutes of the
State or any other valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the corporate
authorities of the Village. However, no such license shall be revoked or
suspended except after the holding of a public hearing by the Local Liquor
Commissioner or his or her designee. Ten (10) days’ notice of the hearing shall
be given to the Terminal Operator. Alternatively, the Terminal Operator shall
have the opportunity to engage in a prehearing conference and agree to
negotiated penalties rather than proceed to a hearing.
   C.   Fine Imposed: In addition, any Terminal Operator violating the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $250.00 for the first
offense, and $500.00 for the second offense and $750.00 for a third offense and
subject to a revocation of any license to operate a Video Gaming Terminal for
the third offense.
   D.   Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   E.   It shall be deemed a violation of this chapter for any Person to
knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the Village. (Ord. 2021-
30, 10-31-2021)
3-25-9: APPLICATION OF VILLAGE CODE:
Any citation under this chapter may be in addition to any other citations
issued by the Village under any and all applicable sections of the Village of
West Dundee Code of Ordinances. (Ord. 2021-30, 10-31-2021)
CHAPTER 26
PARKING TAX
SECTION:
3-26-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-26-2: Definitions
3-26-3: Parking Tax Imposed
3-26-4: Collection, Payment And Accounting
3-26-5: Violations; Penalties
3-26-6: Application Of Village Code
3-26-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all parking and storage garages and facilities, whether specifically licensed
or regulated under other provisions of this code or other or ordinances, or
not. (Ord. 2024-26, 10-18-2024)
3-26-2: DEFINITIONS:
OPERATOR: Any person conducting the operation of a parking lot or garage, as
defined by this section, or receiving consideration for parking or storage of
vehicles at such a location.
PARKING LOT or GARAGE: Any building, structure, premises, enclosure, or other
place, whether enclosed or not, except a public way, and excluding any village-
owned or operated parking lot or garage within the village, with over twenty
(20) parking spaces where vehicles are capable of being stored, housed, or
parked for hire, charge, fee, or other valuable consideration.
PERSON: Any natural person, trustee, receiver, administrator, executor,
conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, partnership,
joint venture, club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society, or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual cooperative, fraternal, or otherwise. Whenever the term PERSON
is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as applied
to associations shall mean the owners or part-owners thereof, and as applied to
corporations, the officers thereof.
VEHICLE:
   1.   Any vehicle which is self-propelled, including, but not limited to:
passenger cars, vans and trucks, recreational vehicles, campers, motorcycles or
motor-driven cycles;
   2.   Semi-trailers; and
   3.   Inoperable vehicles. (Ord. 2024-26, 10-18-2024)
3-26-3: PARKING TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a vehicle in or
upon any parking lot or garage in the village in the amount of six percent (6%)
of the charge or fee paid for parking in or on a parking lot or garage. The tax
herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other taxes. The
ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax is to be borne by
the person who seeks the privilege of occupying space within said parking lot
or garage, said person hereinafter referred to as “recipient.” (Ord. 2024-26,
10-18-2024)
3-26-4: COLLECTION, PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTING:
   A.   It shall be the joint and several duty of the owner, manager, licensee
and operator of each parking lot or garage to collect the tax from the
recipient of the parking privilege and to pay over to the village the tax
required in this section under procedures prescribed by the Village Manager and
as otherwise provided in this section. Every person required to collect the tax
levied by this section shall secure said tax from the recipient at the time he
collects the price, charge, or rent to which it applies. If the recipient is
given any invoice, receipt, or other statement or memorandum of said price,
charge, or rent paid or payable the tax shall be stated, charged, and shown
separately on said document.
   B.   Tickets, claim checks or electronic receipts. It shall be the duty of
every person operating a parking lot or garage in the village to issue to the
owner or operator of any vehicle left in their custody for parking a
distinctive ticket, claim check, sticker, or electronic receipt. Tickets or
claim checks shall be kept and issued in numerical sequence.
   C.   The Village Manager or their designated agent is designated as the
administration and enforcement officer of the tax imposed on behalf of the
village. It shall be the responsibility and duty of the Village Manager or
their designated agent to collect all amounts due to the village from the
owners, managers, licensees and operators of parking lots or garages in the
village.
   D.   A sworn monthly parking lot and garage tax return, on a calendar month
basis, shall be filed by each owner, manager, licensee or operator of each
parking lot and/or garage in the village with the Village Manager or their
designated agent, regardless of whether there is any tax due for the month
covered by the return, on forms prescribed by the village, showing the gross
receipts from the parking lot and/or garage and the number of vehicles parked
in or on each lot or garage and the tax imposed, if any. Said returns are to be
filed by the last day of the month following the month covered by said return.
The tax herein imposed due, and owing shall accompany the return and shall
likewise be due as of the last day of the month following the month covered by
said return.
   E.   It shall be the duty of every owner, manager, licensee, or operator of
any parking lot or garage to keep accurate and complete books and records
containing all information necessary for the collection of the tax herein
imposed, to which the Village Manager or their designated agent shall at all
times have full access, which records shall include a daily sheet showing:
      1.   The number of vehicles parked in or on each lot or garage during the
twenty-four (24)-hour period; and
      2.   The actual parking lot and garage tax receipts collected for the
date in question.
   F.   The Village Manager or their designated agent may enter the premises of
any parking lot or garage for the purposes of inspection and examination of its
books, records and electronic receipts for the proper administration of this
section, and for the enforcement of the collection of the tax hereby imposed.
It is unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the Village
Manager or their designated agent in the discharge of their duties. (Ord. 2024-
26, 10-18-2024)
3-26-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any taxes herein provided, or
when any owner, manager, licensee, or operator of a parking lot or garage in
the village shall fail to collect the tax hereby imposed from any person who
has the ultimate liability for payment of the same, the Village Attorney shall,
upon request of the village, bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce
the payment of said tax on behalf of the village in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   B.   If the Village President, after a hearing held by or for them, shall
find that any parking lot or garage owner, manager, licensee, or operator has
willfully evaded their responsibility to collect the tax imposed by this
section, the Village President may suspend or revoke all village licenses
issued to and held by such person. Said person shall have an opportunity to be
heard at such hearing, to be held not less than five (5) days after notice is
given of the time and place thereof, addressed to their last known place of
business. Pending notice, hearing, and finding, any license of which such
person may be possessed may be temporarily suspended by the Village President.
Any suspension or conviction resulting from such hearing shall not relieve or
discharge any civil liability for nonpayment of the tax due.
   C.   In the event of failure by any parking lot or garage owner, manager,
licensee or operator to collect and pay to the Village Manager the tax required
under this section within ten (10) days after the same shall be due, a penalty
shall be assessed and interest shall become due, all in accordance with the
Village Code. Interest shall accumulate and be due upon said tax and penalty
amount at the rate of one percent (1%) per month, commencing as of the first
day of the month following the month for which the tax was to have been
collected until the tax, penalty, and interest are paid by any parking lot or
garage owner, manager, licensee, or operator who failed to collect and remit
the tax imposed by this section on a timely basis. (Ord. 2024-26, 10-18-2024)
3-26-6: APPLICATION OF VILLAGE CODE:
   A.   Any citation under this chapter may be in addition to any other
citations issued by the Village under any and all applicable sections of the
Village of West Dundee Code of Ordinances, as may be amended.
   B.   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this
section, including interest and penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of
the village and shall be credited to and deposited in the general fund of the
village. (Ord. 2024-26, 10-18-2024)
CHAPTER 27
LICENSING OF RENTAL PROPERTIES
SECTION:
3-27-1: Registration
3-27-2: Fee; Certificate
3-27-3: Amended Registrations
3-27-4: Enforcement
3-27-5: Notice Of Village Code Violations
3-27-6: Owner Responsibility
3-27-7: Tenant Responsibility
3-27-8: Violations
3-27-9: Penalties
3-27-1: REGISTRATION:
   A.   The Owner of any Building renting or leasing a Dwelling Unit shall file
an application for a license with the West Dundee Community Development
Department on forms provided by the Village on its website within thirty (30)
days of the rental of any property subject to this license requirement. The
application shall be deemed prima facie proof of the statements therein
contained in any administrative enforcement proceeding or court proceeding
instituted by the Village against the Owner of the Building. For purposes of
this chapter, a post office box does not suffice as a street address. The
application shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
      1.   The name, street address, business telephone number and business
email address of each Owner of the Building. If the Owner is a partnership,
corporation, or voluntary unincorporated association, the statement shall
further include the name, street address, business telephone number, and
business e-mail address, and position of a responsible partner or officer. If
the Owner is a corporation, the statement shall also include the name, street
address, business telephone number, and business e-mail address of the
registered agent thereof;
      2.   The name, street address, date of birth, business telephone number,
and business e-mail address of a natural person or persons twenty one (21)
years of age or older, designated by the Owner as the authorized agent for
receiving notices of Village code violations found at the Building or at the
property receiving process in any court proceeding or administrative
enforcement proceeding, on behalf of the Owner in connection with the
enforcement of this code; managing, controlling or collecting rents.
      3.   The name, street address, and telephone number of each company that
provides an insurance policy for the Building;
      4.   The street address(es) and property index number(s) of the Building,
and the number of Dwelling Units therein. (Ord. 2025-09, 2-17-2025)
3-27-2: FEE; CERTIFICATE:
   A.   The Owner of a Building shall pay an annual license fee for each
Building at the time the Owner files the annual application, as per the table
below. The registration fee shall not be prorated.
 
Building Type     Registration Fee
One rental unit   $50
2-6 units         $125
More than 6 units $20 per unit
 
   B.   Upon completion of the application with all required information and
payment of the license fee, the Director shall issue a license to the Owner
that certifies that the Owner has received a license in compliance with the
terms of this chapter.
   C.   Late Payment Penalty: Failure to pay the annual fee on or before
December 31st shall result in an additional late charge of double the required
registration fee. (Ord. 2025-09, 2-17-2025)
3-27-3: AMENDED REGISTRATIONS:
The Owner of a Building required to be licensed with the Department pursuant to
the terms of this chapter shall notify the Department, within twenty-one (21)
business days, of any change in the registration information by filing an
amended registration application on a form provided by the Department for such
purpose. There shall be no additional fee for filing an amended registration
statement. (Ord. 2025-09, 2-17-2025)
3-27-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Director, the West Dundee Community Development Department (WDCDD),
the Police Chief, and the West Dundee Police Department (WDPD) shall enforce
the terms of this chapter by any lawful means, including, but not limited to,
proceedings in the circuit court or the Village's Administrative Adjudication
program.
   B.   The Director may refuse to issue any permit(s) required by this code
for any construction, alteration, installation, razing or other work done in or
on any "Building" as defined in this chapter, or any certificate of occupancy
required by this code for such a Building, unless the Owner(s) or other
applicant for such permit(s) or certificate(s) presents a current certificate
of registration for the Building. (Ord. 2025-09, 2-17-2025)
3-27-5: NOTICE OF VILLAGE CODE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   By designating an authorized agent pursuant to the terms of Section 6-
9-2 of this chapter, the Owner consents to receive any and all notices of
Village code violations concerning the registered Building and all process in
any court proceeding or administrative enforcement proceeding brought to
enforce Village code provisions concerning the registered Building by service
of the notice or process on the authorized agent until the Owner files an
amended registration application or new annual registration application
pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
   B.   Any Owner who fails to register a Building pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter shall further be deemed to consent to receive, by posting at
the Building, any and all notices of Village code violations and all process in
an administrative proceeding brought to enforce Village code provisions
concerning the Building.
   C.   The terms of this chapter shall supersede any conflicting or
contradictory notice provisions contained within this code. (Ord. 2025-09, 2-
17-2025)
3-27-6: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   The Owner of a rental Building shall maintain a record for each
Building with the full legal names, dates of birth, driver license numbers or
state identification card numbers, telephone numbers, and e-mail addresses of
every tenant or occupant, residing in each Dwelling Unit.
   B.   The Owner or property agent shall provide each tenant or occupant with
the name and telephone number of a responsible person who, in emergency
situations, will be available on a twenty-four (24) hour basis and who has the
authority to make repairs as needed. The Owner shall also cause said
information to be posted and maintained readily available in every Building.
   C.   The Owner of a Building shall inform each tenant or occupant in
writing, prior to occupancy, of the maximum number of persons allowable by the
occupancy standards of the Village's property maintenance code. This number
shall be as set forth in the International Property Maintenance Code, as
adopted by the Village from time to time.
   D.   The Owner of a Building shall make available tenant and occupant
records as may be required to investigate reasonable suspicion of a violation
of this Chapter. (Ord. 2025-09, 2-17-2025)
3-27-7: TENANT RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Tenant or any member of Tenant’s household shall not:
      1.   Engage in or any way be involved in any nuisance or criminal
activity or behavior at the registered dwelling unit as defined by Title 6
Chapter 9.
      2.   Engage in any act intended to facilitate or that does facilitate
nuisance activity or criminal activity at the registered dwelling unit as
defined by Title 6, Chapter 9.
      3.   Cause a disproportionate number of calls for police service
including, but not limited to, noise complaints, barking dog complaints, stray
animal complaints, juvenile complaints or other nuisance complaints. (Ord.
2025-09, 2-17-2025)
3-27-8: VIOLATIONS:
The following shall constitute violations of this chapter:
   A.   Failure of the Owner or Tenant to maintain the Building and premises in
compliance with applicable building, property maintenance and zoning
ordinances.
   B.   For any person other than an inspector from the Department who removes
or defaces any notices which have been posted pursuant to this chapter without
the approval of the code official.
   C.   Failure of the Owner or Tenant of the Building to comply with any other
applicable provision of this chapter or this Code. (Ord. 2025-09, 2-17-2025)
3-27-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Each day that an Owner has not received a certificate of registration
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.
   B.   In addition to any of the penalties provided in this chapter, any
person violating the terms of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation per day.
   C.   The intentional submission of false information on a registration
statement or an amended registration statement filed pursuant to this chapter
shall be an offense punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day that
such information remains uncorrected by the Owner(s) shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
   D.   Any fines shall be debts due and owing to the Village that the Village
may collect by any means allowed by law, including, but not limited to, filing
a lien against the Building. (Ord. 2025-09, 2-17-2025)
CHAPTER 28
SELF-STORAGE UNITS
SECTION:
3-28-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-28-2: Definitions
3-28-3: Storage Tax Imposed
3-28-4: Collection, Payment And Accounting
3-28-5: Violations; Penalties
3-28-6: Application Of Village Code
3-28-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all self-storage units, whether specifically licensed or regulated under other
provisions of this code or other or ordinances, or not. (Ord. 2025-28, 6-16-
2025)
3-28-2: DEFINITIONS:
OPERATOR: Any person conducting the operation of a self-storage facility, as
defined by this section, or receiving a payment, fee, change of any kind or
consideration for use of storage units at a location within the Village.
PERSON: Any natural person, trustee, receiver, administrator, executor,
conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, partnership,
joint venture, club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society, or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual cooperative, fraternal, or otherwise. Whenever the term PERSON
is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as applied
to associations shall mean the owners or part-owners thereof, and as applied to
corporations, the officers thereof.
SELF-STORAGE UNIT: Any building, structure, premises, or enclosure, whether
enclosed or not, capable of being used to store items for a charge, fee, rent,
price or other valuable consideration. (Ord. 2025-28, 6-16-2025)
3-28-3: STORAGE TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon the use and privilege of using a self-storage unit
in the Village in the amount of five percent (5%) of the charge or fee paid for
use of each self-storage unit. The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition
to any and all other taxes. The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment
of said tax is to be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of storing any
items in a self-storage unit, said person hereinafter referred to as
"recipient". (Ord. 2025-28, 6-16-2025)
3-28-4: COLLECTION, PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTING:
   A.   It shall be the joint and several duty of the owner, manager, licensee
and operator of each self-storage facility to collect the tax from the
recipient of the self-storage privilege and to pay over to the Village the tax
required in this section under procedures prescribed by the Village Manager and
as otherwise provided in this section. Every person required to collect the tax
levied by this section shall secure said tax from the recipient at the time he
or she collects the price, charge, or rent to which it applies. If the
recipient is given any invoice, receipt, or other statement or memorandum of
said price, charge, fee or rent paid or payable, the tax shall be stated,
charged, and shown separately on said document.
   B.   The Village Manager, or his or her designated agent, is designated as
the administration and enforcement officer of the tax imposed on behalf of the
village. It hall be the responsibility and duty of the Village Manager, or his
or her designated gent, to collect all amounts due to the village from the
owners, managers, licensees, operators of self-storage facilities operating in
the village.
   C.   A sworn monthly tax return, on a calendar month basis, shall be filed
by each owner, manager, licensee or operator of each self-storage facility in
the village with the Village Manager or his or her designated agent, regardless
of whether there is any tax due for the month covered by the return, on forms
prescribed by the Village, showing the gross receipts. Said returns are to be
filed by the last day of the month following the month covered by said return.
The tax herein imposed due, and owing shall accompany the return and shall
likewise be due as of the last day of the month following the month covered by
said return.
   D.   It shall be the duty of every owner, manager, licensee, or operator of
any self-storage facility to keep accurate and complete books and records
containing all information necessary for the collection of the tax herein
imposed, to which the Village Manager or their designated agent shall at all
times have full access, which records shall include a daily sheet showing:
      1.   The number of self-storage units being used by a recipient.
      2.   The actual tax receipts collected for the month in question.
   E.   The Village Manager or their designated agent may enter the premises of
any self-storage facility for the purposes of inspection and examination of its
books, records and electronic receipts for the proper administration of this
section, and for the enforcement of the collection of the tax hereby imposed.
It is unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the Village
Manager or their designated agent in the discharge of their duties. (Ord. 2025-
28, 6-16-2025)
3-28-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any taxes herein provided, or
when any owner, manager, licensee, or operator of a self-storage facility in
the village shall fail to collect the tax hereby imposed from any person who
has the ultimate liability for payment of the same, the Village Attorney shall,
upon request of the village, bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce
the payment of said tax on behalf of the village in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   B.   If the Village President, after a hearing, shall find that any self-
storage facility owner, manager, licensee, or operator has willfully evaded
their responsibility to collect the tax imposed by this section, the Village
President may suspend or revoke all village licenses issued to and held by such
person. Said operator or owner shall have an opportunity to be heard at such
hearing, to be held not less than five (5) days after notice is given of the
time and place thereof, addressed to the last known place of business. Pending
notice, hearing, and finding, any license of which such person may be possessed
may be temporarily suspended by the Village President. Any suspension or
conviction resulting from such hearing shall not relieve or discharge any civil
liability for nonpayment of the tax due.
   C.   In the event of failure by any self-storage facility owner, manager,
licensee or operator to collect and pay to the Village Manager the tax required
under this section within ten (10) days after the same shall be due, a penalty
shall be assessed and interest shall become due, all in accordance with the
Village Code. Interest shall accumulate and be due upon said tax and penalty
amount at the rate of one percent (1%) per month, commencing as of the first
day of the month following the month for which the tax was to have been
collected until the tax, penalty, and interest are paid by any parking lot or
garage owner, manager, licensee, or operator who failed to collect and remit
the tax imposed by this section on a timely basis. (Ord. 2025-28, 6-16-2025)
3-28-6: APPLICATION OF VILLAGE CODE:
   A.   Any citation under this chapter may be in addition to any other
citations issued by the Village under any and all applicable sections of the
Village of West Dundee Municipal Code, as may be amended.
   B.   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this
section, including interest and penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of
the village and shall be credited to and deposited in the general fund of the
village. (Ord. 2025-28, 6-16-2025)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Acts Endangering Public Health
4-1-2: Buildings And Structures
4-1-3: Food And Beverage Regulations
4-1-4: Noxious Odors
4-1-5: Dense Smoke
4-1-6: Air Pollution Control
4-1-7: Water Pollution
4-1-8: Refuse Disposal
4-1-9: Cemeteries
4-1-10: Notification Of Treatment Of Certain Injuries
4-1-11: Junk, Trash And Refuse
4-1-12: Penalty
4-1-1: ACTS ENDANGERING PUBLIC HEALTH:
It is unlawful to commit or do any act which endangers the public health.
   A.   Matters Not Provided For: Requirements that are essential for the
public safety of an existing or proposed activity, building or structure, or
for the safety of the occupants thereof, which are not specifically provided
for by this code shall be determined by the fire or police official. (Ord. 14-
34, 8-4-2014)
4-1-2: BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   It is unlawful to permit any building, structure or place to remain in
such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health in any way. Any such
structure, building or place is declared to be a nuisance.
   B.   All premises used as hotels, motels, tourist homes, or for lodging
house and boarding house purposes shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition. Water closets and lavatories shall be available to all using any
hotel, motel, tourist home, lodging house and boarding house. (Ord. 14-34, 8-4-
2014)
4-1-3: FOOD AND BEVERAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Sale Of Unwholesome Food Prohibited: It is unlawful to sell or offer
for sale any unwholesome or polluted food or drink of any kind in the village.
   B.   Sanitary Regulation Of Premises Used For Food Storage: All premises
used in the sale or storage of food intended for human consumption shall be
kept in a clean and sanitary condition. It is unlawful to permit any person who
is afflicted with an infectious disease to handle any food or drink intended
for human consumption. Premises shall be kept free from flies and vermin of all
kinds.
   C.   Drinking Cups In Public Places: It is unlawful to maintain any common
drinking cup, or cups, dipper or other similar utensil for the use of more than
one person in any public hall, theater, store or other place frequented by the
public. Churches and other religious places of worship are exempt from this
subsection.
   D.   Sanitization Of Utensils Used For Serving Food To Public: Utensils for
personal use in all places serving food or drink to the public shall be
thoroughly cleaned and sanitized after each such usage. (Ord. 14-34, 8-4-2014)
4-1-4: NOXIOUS ODORS:
It is unlawful to cause or permit the emission of noxious odors from any fire,
chimney, waste disposal system, or any other agency in the village so as to
cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents thereof. (Ord. 14-34, 8-4-2014)
4-1-5: DENSE SMOKE:
It is unlawful to cause or permit the emission of dense smoke from any fire,
chimney, engine, oil burner or any other agency in the village so as to cause
annoyance and discomfort to the residents thereof. For the purpose of testing
and grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann smoke chart, as published and
used by the United States geological survey, shall be and is adopted as a
standard for such grading; and smoke shall be and is defined as and declared to
be "dense" when it is of a degree of density of number three of said chart, or
greater, for more than six (6) minutes in any one hour, whether such period of
time is consecutive or not. (Ord. 14-34, 8-4-2014)
4-1-6: AIR POLLUTION CONTROL:
   A.   Adoption Of Environmental Protection Act: All applicable rules,
regulations and standards of the state environmental protection act, 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq., pertaining to air pollution are hereby
adopted generally.
   B.   Open Fires Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause,
suffer, allow or permit open burning of rubbish, refuse of any kind, grass,
leaves, wood, garbage, metal salvage or any other material in open fires.
      1.   Exceptions For Residential Property: Exterior fires on residential
properties in approved devices made specifically for burning wood, manufactured
logs, or charcoal, for which purpose is to cook food or for recreational use.
         a.   Materials burned in this exterior fireplace shall not include
landscape waste, such as grass clippings, leaves, weeds and/or other yard waste
debris, and/or garbage, and/or refuse including cardboard, treated lumber,
excessive paper or other household waste.
         b.   The fire is to be attended by a responsible person over the age
of fourteen (14) years, who shall have a garden hose connected to a water
supply or other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for use.
         c.   The portable fireplace location is not less than twenty feet
(20') from any structure, including houses, sheds, decks, fences, vehicles or
combustibles, located in the rear yard only and adequate provisions are made to
prevent fire from spreading within twenty feet (20') of any structure.
         d.   A portable fireplace shall be used only in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications and guidelines including the use of both
protective screens and covers to limit the size of the fire source.
         e.   The fire's fuel area cannot be more than three feet (3') in
diameter and must be two feet (2') or less in height.
         f.   Burning is prohibited when winds are greater than ten (10) miles
per hour.
         g.   All fires must be extinguished when no longer in use.
         h.   Any fire considered to be a nuisance as determined by a police or
fire official shall be extinguished.
         i.   No fires shall be in the parking lot.
      2.   Exceptions For Commercial Property: Exterior fires on commercial
properties in approved devices made specifically for burning clean wood or
natural gas.
         a.   Commercial recreational fires shall not be conducted within
twenty feet (20') of a structure or combustible material. There shall be twenty
feet (20') clearance from all vehicles or any other hazards.
         b.   The container shall be used only in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications and guidelines.
         c.   The fire shall be contained within the fireplace or burn
container, and a flame's maximum height of two and one-half feet (21/2') above
the top of the burn container.
         d.   Burning is prohibited when winds are greater than ten (10) miles
per hour.
         e.   All fires must be extinguished when no longer in use.
         f.   Any fire considered to be a nuisance as determined by a police or
fire official shall be extinguished.
         g.   A special permit is required and requires approval by the fire
chief or his designee. (Ord. 14-34, 8-4-2014)
4-1-7: WATER POLLUTION:
   A.   Water Sources: It is unlawful and a nuisance for any person, firm or
corporation to obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in
the village.
   B.   Stagnant Pools Of Water: Any stagnant pool of water in the village is
declared to be a nuisance. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to permit any such nuisance to remain or exist on any property under his or its
control. (Ord. 14-34, 8-4-2014)
4-1-8: REFUSE DISPOSAL:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit anywhere in the
village any uncovered piles of refuse, garbage, offal or carcasses of dead
animals. Any uncovered pile of refuse is declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 14-
34, 8-4-2014)
4-1-9: CEMETERIES:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to establish a cemetery or
to bury any person within the village limits, or within three-fourths (3/4) of
a mile thereof except in an established cemetery. (Ord. 14-34, 8-4-2014)
4-1-10: NOTIFICATION OF TREATMENT OF CERTAIN INJURIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of any person, firm or corporation conducting or
operating a medical facility or any physician, nurse or employee thereof, as
soon as time permits giving due consideration to the treatment for any injury
hereinafter specified, to notify the village police department when any person
seeking treatment from the injuries specified in this section who is not
accompanied by a village police officer or an officer from another police
agency, when it reasonably appears the person requesting treatment has
received:
      1.   An injury resulting from the discharge of a firearm;
      2.   Any injury or wound apparently inflicted by any object used as a
weapon;
      3.   An injury sustained in the commission of or as a victim of a
criminal offense;
      4.   Any animal or human bite;
      5.   Any poisoning;
      6.   Any injury sustained on public property;
      7.   Any injury in which a moving motor vehicle was involved;
      8.   Any injury of any cause where it is evident that death will probably
ensue as a direct result thereof, or when death has resulted;
      9.   Any child that has suffered injury or disability from physical
abuse, or neglect inflicted upon him or her or shows evidence of malnutrition,
other than by accidental means.
      10.   Any hospital, physician, nurse, or employee thereof, shall be held
harmless for their reasonable compliance with this section, and shall not be
held responsible for inaccurate information being given by the patient or those
accompanying the patient. (Ord. 14-34, 8-4-2014)
4-1-11: JUNK, TRASH AND REFUSE:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, "junk", "trash" and
"refuse" are defined to include any and all waste matter, whether reusable or
not, which is offensive to the public health, safety or to the aesthetics of
the neighborhood, and are specifically intended to include, but not be limited
to, old iceboxes, refrigerators and stoves.
   B.   Storage On Private Property: The storing of junk, trash and refuse on
private property within the village so as to endanger the public health, safety
and welfare, and in any manner not permitted by title 10, "Zoning Regulations",
of this code is declared a nuisance.
   C.   Notice Of Nuisance:
      1.   Village Officials: Any official of the village upon observing any
violation of subsection B of this section shall issue a notice in writing
directed to the owner of record of the property on which said nuisance occurs,
as shown in the records of the recorder of deeds of Kane County, or to the
occupant of said property, or to both, which said notice shall describe the
violation and shall establish a reasonable time limit for the abatement thereof
by such owner or occupant which time shall be not less than two (2) days nor
more than ten (10) days after service of such notice.
      2.   Citizen's Affidavit: Any citizen of the village who observes a
violation of subsection B of this section may file his affidavit setting forth
in detail the violation, its location and the name of the owner and occupant of
the property on which such nuisance is alleged, and may file said affidavit
with the village manager, who shall assign to an official of the village the
duty to investigate such charge and, if such nuisance exists, to issue a notice
in writing to the owner or occupant of the property as provided in subsection
C1 of this section.
   D.   Service Procedure: Any official of the village shall serve the notice
in writing provided for in subsection C of this section upon the owner or
occupant of the property on which such nuisance exists, or upon both of them,
and shall upon his return make a copy of such notice, showing the time of
service, the person upon whom it was served, or the manner in which it was
served.
   E.   Nuisance Abatement; Investigation: Immediately upon the termination of
the time allowed in any such notice for the abatement of such nuisance, the
official of the village who served such notice, or any other police officer or
inspector who shall be assigned by the village manager shall investigate to
determine whether or not such nuisance has been abated.
   F.   Complaint Procedure Upon Failure To Comply With Abatement Notice: In
the event the owner or occupant of the property on which such nuisance exists
has failed within the prescribed time to abate such nuisance, then the official
of the village, who filed an affidavit with the village manager, who
investigated whether such nuisance has been abated, shall file a complaint
charging violation of subsection B of this section with the 16th judicial
circuit court. (Ord. 14-34, 8-4-2014)
4-1-12: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided herein, any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
14-34, 8-4-2014)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definition
4-2-2: Garbage Collector
4-2-3: Collection Provisions
4-2-4: Acts And Conditions Prohibited
4-2-5: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITION:
   GARBAGE: The term "garbage" shall include the following classifications of
refuse:
   A.   Class A: Waste and refuse resulting from the preparation, spoiling and
decay of foods and food products.
   B.   Class B: Ashes, cinders and other waste resulting from the burning of
combustible materials.
   C.   Class C: Miscellaneous waste shall include all other types of waste
including, but not limited to, tin cans, bottles, papers, grass and leaves.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
4-2-2: GARBAGE COLLECTOR:
   A.   Duties:
      1.   A garbage collector shall be hired upon a contract with the village,
to collect and dispose of said garbage as specified in this chapter for a
period to be determined by the board of trustees. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd.
Ord. 91-08, 7-1-1991; 2004 Code)
      2.   Said garbage collector shall do all of the work and furnish all
necessary equipment and labor to cause to be removed garbage as hereinbefore
specified.
      3.   He shall furnish a truck for said purpose which shall be suitably
covered and shall have a suitable body so as to prevent any refuse or rubbish
from either leaking through said truck or spilling over the same, and to at all
times, when not actually engaged in the business of collecting garbage, keep
said truck covered, and particularly to keep the same covered while driving to
or from a garbage route.
      4.   He may retain as many employees as he may see fit, but shall in all
respects be personally responsible for the performance of his duties in
compliance with said contract. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 91-08, 7-1-
1991)
   B.   Responsibilities: Provision for the disposal of all garbage collected
shall be arranged by said garbage collector, and the village shall in no manner
be responsible for the ultimate disposition thereof; provided however, that in
removing or disposing of all substances and matters in this chapter required to
be removed, the same shall be removed and disposed of by the garbage collector
in a manner safe to persons and property and not injurious to the health, and
no part of such substances and matters shall be disposed of within the
established limits of the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
4-2-3: COLLECTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   General Restrictions:
      1.   All garbage shall be collected by the garbage collector from all
buildings or premises as hereinafter defined, at least once each week
throughout the year on the same day of each successive week. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
      2.   No collection of garbage shall be made at or from any commercially
zoned property nor any residential or multi-family property greater than three
(3) units, nor any property zoned residential-business (R-B). (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.   Garbage in class A must be stored in a clean, leakproof,
nonabsorbent container covered with a tightfitting lid and maintained in good
repair, and all wet materials so stored must be drained and wrapped in such a
manner that moisture cannot spill when the material is removed. It shall be
unlawful for any other person, firm, or corporation to collect, obtain, possess
or pick up any recyclable items placed for collection in front of a residence
as part of any formal recycling program adopted by the village of West Dundee,
unless said person is licensed as the collector under the provisions of
subsection
4-2-2A of this chapter. Any and each such collection and violation hereof from
one or more locations shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      4.   All garbage in classes B and C shall be stored in a suitable
container or wrapped, tied or bundled in such a manner that it will not be
blown or scattered during the storage period.
      5.   Waste materials need not be separated by reason of their nature,
i.e., combustible, noncombustible, rubbish, putrescible, etc.; provided
however, that when any garbage of class A is combined with any other waste,
then the provisions for class A garbage shall apply.
   B.   Three Or Less Dwelling Units: The following provisions relate to
occupied buildings containing three (3) or less dwelling units only: (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989)
      1.   All waste materials, except building materials, will be collected by
the garbage collector; provided however, that no such collection shall be made
unless all of the provisions of this chapter are fully complied with.
      2.   All waste materials must be placed on the tree bank in front of the
owner's premises, and must be easily accessible to the collector on the day of
collection. On all days excepting the day of collection, containers must be
stored on the owner's premises on the side of a structure or out of site. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Other Buildings On Premises: The following regulations pertain to all
buildings and premises other than occupied residential buildings containing
three (3) or less dwelling units:
      1.   All such buildings and premises shall be served by licensed private
scavengers as often as may be required to prevent a nuisance or a threat to
public health, welfare and safety, but in no event shall such service be less
than twice a week. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
      2.   The standards for collection shall meet all requirements of health,
sanitation and safety set by the village board. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd.
2004 Code)
4-2-4: ACTS AND CONDITIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No waste materials shall be deposited, thrown away or permitted to
accumulate or remain in any street or alley or any other public place or in any
condition where such presence would constitute a nuisance to others, or a
potential or actual hazard to health, sanitation or safety. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
   B.   No waste materials shall be deposited at curbside no earlier than the
night before collection. (2004 Code)
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit anywhere in the village
any uncovered piles of refuse, garbage, offal or carcasses of dead animals.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE A. YARD WASTE COMPOSTING
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Compost Piles And Bins
4-2A-2: Acceptable Composting Procedures
4-2A-3: Outside Source Compost Prohibited
4-2A-4: Maintenance Requirements
4-2A-5: Odor Nuisance
4-2A-6: Penalty
4-2A-1: COMPOST PILES AND BINS:
   A.   Compost piles or heaps must be contained in a bin or structure that is:
      1.   No greater that four feet (4') in height and no greater than sixty
four (64) cubic feet in volume (a compost pile 4 feet long, 4 feet wide, and 4
feet high would be 64 cubic feet).
      2.   Constructed out of a durable material that allows the compost pile
or heap to breathe from the sides. Examples of such materials include snow
fencing, woven wire, wood, and block or bricks which are laid to permit
aeration.
      3.   Adequately drained and does not allow water to stand.
   B.   Compost piles and bins may only be located in rear or side yards and
must be set back a minimum of six feet (6') from of any property line.
   C.   Compost piles and bins must be located a minimum of five feet (5') from
any surface water, creek, or spring. (Ord. 97-15, 7-21-1997)
4-2A-2: ACCEPTABLE COMPOSTING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Composting is to be done pursuant to the acceptable composting
practices which include:
      1.   Combining an equal mixture of carbon rich ("brown") material and
nitrogen rich ("green") materials in a layered fashion. A pile with too much
"brown" material will not decompose and a pile with too much "green" material
will become soggy and emit odors.
         a.   Examples of "brown" materials include leaves, pine needles, small
twigs and branches, wood chips and shavings, bark pieces, and straw.
         b.   Examples of "green" materials include grass clippings, weeds,
spent flowers and plants, vine and other soft prunings, and house plants.
      2.   Cutting the materials into small pieces to aid the decomposition
process.
      3.   Turning the compost pile over at a minimum of once every fourteen
(14) days to provide for aeration and maintain the aerobic decomposition
process.
      4.   Maintaining the moisture level in the pile so that it has a dampness
similar to that of a wrung out sponge or washcloth.
   B.   The following materials are prohibited from compost piles:
      1.   Animal products and nonvegetable food scraps such as meats, bones,
gristle, fats, oils, grease, and dairy products.
         a.   Egg shells, fruit and vegetable peelings, coffee grounds, tea
bags, and stale bread are acceptable materials only if they are added in
moderation, thoroughly chopped up, and mixed in well to avoid emitting odors
and attracting insects and rodents.
      2.   Dog or cat feces.
      3.   Diseased plants, pieces of eucalyptus, red cedar, or black walnut
trimmings, or anything that has been treated with pesticides or herbicides
because they will "poison" the compost.
      4.   Cardboard, pieces of lumber, paper products with heavy inking, and
large tree limbs are also inappropriate compost materials.
   C.   Any pile or heap that includes those materials that are prohibited in
subsection B of this section shall be considered refuse and will be in
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 97-15, 7-21-1997)
4-2A-3: OUTSIDE SOURCE COMPOST PROHIBITED:
The addition of yard waste and compost materials generated outside the property
on which the compost pile or bin is located is prohibited. (Ord. 97-15, 7-21-
1997)
4-2A-4: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Compost piles must be maintained neatly and contained within the bin or
structure. Allowing the pile to sprawl or overflow the bin is not an acceptable
compost practice and will be considered to be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 97-15, 7-21-1997)
4-2A-5: ODOR NUISANCE:
Compost piles or bins cannot emit odorous matter in such quantities as to be
readily detectable at any point along lot lines, or to otherwise produce a
public nuisance or hazard beyond lot lines. (Ord. 97-15, 7-21-1997)
4-2A-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of these regulations
shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
97-15, 7-21-1997; amd. 2004 Code)
ARTICLE B. LITTER CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2B-1: Short Title
4-2B-2: Legislative Findings And Determinations
4-2B-3: Definitions
4-2B-4: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-2B-5: Place For Public Assemblage, Transaction Of Business, Etc.; Placing And
Maintaining Receptacles For Litter
4-2B-6: Violations; Penalty
4-2B-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the LITTER CONTROL ACT. (Ord.
98-19, 8-17-1998)
4-2B-2: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS:
The board of trustees of the village of West Dundee find and determine that:
   A.   Rapid growth population, the ever increasing mobility of the population
and improper and abusive discard habits cause the existence, proliferation and
accumulation of litter upon public and private property in the village of West
Dundee;
   B.   Litter is detrimental to the welfare of the people of the village of
West Dundee; and
   C.   While there has been a collective failure by government, industry and
the public to develop and accomplish effective litter control, there is need to
educate the public with respect to the problem of litter and to provide for
strict enforcement of litter control measures.
This article is therefore necessary, to provide for uniform prohibition
throughout the village of any and all littering on public or private property
so as to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of the village.
(Ord. 98-19, 8-17-1998)
4-2B-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
   LITTER: Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste. "Litter" may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazines, glass,
metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging material, motor vehicle
parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or offensive
matter of any kind, any object likely to injure any person or create a traffic
hazard, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which has been
discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly;
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate or any other legal
entity or their representative, agent or assigns. (Ord. 98-19, 8-17-1998)
4-2B-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Dumping, Deposit, Etc., Of Litter Prohibited, Exemptions: No person
shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or permit the dumping,
depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of litter upon any public
or private property in the village of West Dundee, or upon or into any river,
lake, pond or other stream or body of water in this village, unless:
      1.   The property has been designated by the village of West Dundee for
the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the pollution control
board;
      2.   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended
by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
      3.   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance or a fire hazard;
      4.   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; or
      5.   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of such litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
   B.   Dumping, Deposit, Etc., From Motor Vehicles Prohibited, Deposit Of
Garbage Or Refuse In Receptacles Along Village Property: No person shall dump,
deposit, throw, discard or otherwise dispose of litter from any motor vehicle
upon any village roadway, upon any public or private property or upon or into
any river, lake, pond, stream or body of water in this village, except as
permitted under any of subsections A1 through A5 of this section. Nor shall any
person transport by any means, garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence,
place of business, farm or other site to and deposit such material in, around
or on top of trash barrels or other receptacles placed along village roadways
or other property.
   C.   Accumulation Of Litter Prohibited: No person shall allow litter to
accumulate upon real property, of which the person charged is the owner or
tenant in control, in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance or in
such a manner that the litter may be blown or otherwise carried by the natural
elements or to the real property of another person.
   D.   Presumption Of Violation By Operator; Throwing, Deposit, Etc., Of
Litter From Motor Vehicle: Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or
dumped from any motor vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption
is created that the operator of that motor vehicle has violated subsection B of
this section, but that presumption may be rebutted. (Ord. 98-19, 8-17-1998)
4-2B-5: PLACE FOR PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGE, TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS, ETC.; PLACING AND
MAINTAINING RECEPTACLES FOR LITTER:
   A.   In order to assist the public in complying with this article, the owner
or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a place
for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation or as a public way
shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of litter,
of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the numbers
of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "property held out to the public for the
transaction of business" includes, but is not limited to, commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business
parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas,
industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and
bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies and shopping
malls; and "property held out to the public for assemblage, recreation or as a
public way" includes, but is not limited to, any property that is publicly
owned or is operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in this
paragraph for "property held out to the public for transaction of business" but
excludes state highway rights of way and rest areas located thereon.
   C.   If no litter receptacles are placed on property described in this
section, the owner or person in control of the property may be convicted of a
petty offense and fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) for violating this
section. If the owner or person in control of such property has placed litter
receptacles on his property, but the number or size of such receptacles has
proved inadequate to meet the needs of the numbers of people coming on or using
his property, as indicated by the appearance and condition of that property,
and the owner or person in control has failed to provide sufficient or adequate
receptacles within ten (10) days after being made aware of that fact by written
notice from the appropriate law enforcement agency, he may be convicted of a
petty offense and fined twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each receptacle not so
provided and maintained. (Ord. 98-19, 8-17-1998)
4-2B-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Persons who violate any provision of subsection
4-2B-4A, B or C of this article shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be
fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 98-19, 8-17-1998; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   In addition to any fine imposed under this article, the court may order
that the person convicted of such violation remove and properly dispose of the
litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal and disposal and
may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the person as convicted.
   C.   The penalties prescribed in this section are in addition to, and not in
lieu of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities otherwise
imposed or conferred by law. (Ord. 98-19, 8-17-1998)
CHAPTER 3
PLANTS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Nuisance Declared
4-3-2: Prohibited Plants And Conditions
4-3-3: Nuisance Abatement
4-3-4: Lien For Abatement
4-3-5: Violation; Penalty
4-3-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any weed such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or other weeds
of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the village are
declared to be a nuisance, and it is unlawful to permit any such weeds to grow
or remain in any such place. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
4-3-2: PROHIBITED PLANTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Height Limit: It is unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or
plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants to grow
to a height exceeding ten inches (10") anywhere in the village; any such plants
or weeds exceeding such height are declared to be a nuisance pursuant to the
authority granted by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-6 and 5/11-20-7.
   B.   Barberry Bushes Prohibited: It is a nuisance and unlawful to plant or
permit the growth of the bush of the species of tall, common or European
barberry, further known as Barberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties
within the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
4-3-3: NUISANCE ABATEMENT:
   A.   Abatement Notice; Service: It shall be the duty of the director of
public works to serve or cause to be served a notice in writing upon the owner
or occupant of any premises on which weeds are permitted to grow in violation
of the provisions of this chapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance
within three (3) days. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   B.   Abatement By Village; Cost Assessment: If the person so served does not
abate the nuisance within three (3) days, the director of public works may
proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the
abatement at the cost of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per hour with a
minimum charge of three hundred dollars ($300.00), plus an additional charge of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each hour in excess of one hour, and
the expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or occupant. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2006-35, 6-19-2006; Ord. 2015-10, 6-1-2015)
4-3-4: LIEN FOR ABATEMENT:
   A.   Lien Claim Filed; Notice To Owner: Charges for such weed removal shall
be a lien upon the premises. Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid
for sixty (60) days after it has been rendered, the clerk may file with the
recorder of deeds of Kane County a statement of liens claims. This statement
shall contain a legal description of the premises, the expenses and costs
incurred and the date the weeds were cut, and a notice that the village claims
a lien for this amount. Notice of such lien claims shall be mailed to the owner
of the premises if his address is known; provided, however, that failure of the
clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such notice, or the failure of the
owner to receive such notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien
for such charges as provided in the following subsection.
   B.   Lien; Foreclosure:
      1.   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be
sold for nonpaying of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied
to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the
village.
      2.   The village attorney is authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid sixty
(60) days after it has been rendered. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
4-3-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which such nuisance continues unabated after
ten (10) days from receipt of notice. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
DUMPSTERS, MOBILE STORAGE CONTAINERS AND COLLECTION BINS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Storage Of Dumpsters
4-4-3: Storage Of Mobile Storage Containers
4-4-4: Collection Bins
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   COLLECTION BIN: A secure steel or similar collection or storage container
accessible to the public for the charitable donation of used clothing or other
salvageable merchandise until retrieved by an authorized collection service.
   DUMPSTER: A container designed to receive, transport and dump waste.
   MOBILE STORAGE CONTAINER: Any container designed for on site exterior
storage that is capable of being transported to distant locations by a motor
vehicle. (Ord. 16-13, 4-4-2016)
4-4-2: STORAGE OF DUMPSTERS:
   A.   Storage of dumpsters in the front of a residential property shall not
be located on the public right of way and shall not exceed thirty (30) days. An
extension of the thirty (30) day restriction must be approved by the board of
trustees.
   B.   Storage of dumpsters on the side or rear of a residential property
shall not exceed sixty (60) days. An extension of the sixty (60) day
restriction must be approved by the board of trustees.
   C.   Storage of dumpsters on the street is allowed only when it can be
demonstrated that alternative private property locations are not feasible. If
permission is granted to store a dumpster on the street, it shall not remain on
the street for more than fourteen (14) days, and reflective barricades and
traffic cones must be in place.
   D.   Motorized vehicles or trucks that serve as waste disposal options must
also comply with the above regulations and time frames.
   E.   The village regulations permit dumpsters in the following locations in
priority order:
      1.   Location in rear or side yard.
      2.   Front yards.
      3.   Public right of way or street (last resort). (Ord. 16-13, 4-4-2016)
4-4-3: STORAGE OF MOBILE STORAGE CONTAINERS:
   A.   Mobile storage containers are not allowed on the public right of way
and must be located on a paved or gravel surface.
   B.   Storage of mobile storage containers shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
An extension of the thirty (30) day restriction must be approved by the board
of trustees. (Ord. 16-13, 4-4-2016)
4-4-4: COLLECTION BINS:
   A.   Generally: Steel or similar collection or storage containers are
prohibited in the village of West Dundee.
   B.   Exceptions: Churches are permitted to place collection bins in
accordance with the following:
      1.   Allotment: Premises devoted to churches are permitted to have no
more than one collection bin per zoning lot.
      2.   Location: A collection bin shall be appropriately located so as not
to interfere with sight triangles, on site circulation, required setbacks,
landscaping, or parking, and any other requirements that may have been imposed
as part of the site plan approval for the premises.
      3.   Placement: A collection bin shall be placed on an appropriate
hardscape surface.
      4.   Area: A collection bin shall not cover a ground surface area in
excess of twenty five (25) square feet nor be more than seven feet (7') in
height.
      5.   Type: A collection bin shall be of the type that is enclosed by use
of a receiving door and locked so that the contents of the bin may not be
accessed by anyone other than those responsible for the retrieval of the
contents.
      6.   Removal Of Contents: A collection bin must be regularly emptied of
its contents so that it does not overflow, resulting in content being strewn
about the surrounding area. The collection bin shall also include a legible
notice prohibiting the placement of items outside the bin.
      7.   Maintenance: A collection bin shall be maintained in good condition
with no structural damage, holes, or visible rust.
      8.   Permit: A permit for a collection bin shall be required. The permit
shall be issued by the community development director, and may only be granted
when it is determined by the community development director that:
         a.   The collection bin is for a church seeking charitable donations
of used clothing or salvageable merchandise;
         b.   The collection bin is being placed in a suitable location as
described by this section;
         c.   The proper type of collection bin is being used as described by
this section;
         d.   A letter of authority/permission from the owner of the property
upon which the collection bin is to be or is already located has been received;
         e.   As owner/operator of the collection bin, the name, address, and
phone number of the church shall be displayed. If applicable, the information
of an affiliated charitable organization may also be included on the collection
bin;
         f.   The collection bin shall have posted on it a legible notice
prohibiting the placement of items outside the bin.
      9.   Allowable Exceptions: The village board of trustees may grant
exceptions as follows:
         a.   A deviation in the physical size of a collection bin.
         b.   The number of collection bins on a zoning lot.
   C.   Compliance: If any collection bin is placed without a permit or an
inspection reveals that such a bin is not in compliance with this section,
enforcement and abatement shall take place as generally provided. (Ord. 16-13,
4-4-2016)
TITLE 5
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 1
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Fire Code Adopted
5-1-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adopted; Amendments: Pursuant to the authority granted by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2, the village of West Dundee hereby adopts by
reference, as criteria for the issuance of construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair and installation permits the provisions of the published
2021 International Fire Code with the following amendments:
   Section 101.1 These provisions shall be known as the fire prevention code of
[Name Of Jurisdiction], hereinafter referred to as "this code".
      Insert: Village of West Dundee as the Name Of Jurisdiction
   Section 104.3 Add: The village shall have the authority to inspect all
commercial buildings/businesses annually. An apartment building is classified
as a commercial building. The village shall have the authority to inspect all
non-sprinklered multi-family building apartments within the apartment building
with six or more units annually, or any apartment as deemed necessary by the
building or fire code official.
   Section 104.3.1.2 Inspection Fees:
      Classification: Annual Fire & Life Safety Inspection Fee:
 
Initial & first re-inspection $0
Second re-inspection          $50.00
Third or more re-inspection   $100.00
 
   Section 111: Means of Appeals shall be the village board with rules,
regulations and procedures as described in section 111 of the adopted building
code as amended in subsection 9-1A-1A of the municipal code.
   Section 112.3.3 Add: Violations may also be enforced through administrative
adjudication as outlined in title 6 chapter 8 of the municipal code.
   Section 109.4 Insert misdemeanor for specific offense, insert $500.00 for
dollars for amount, delete the following text "or by imprisonment not exceeding
(number of days), or both such fine and imprisonment."
   Section 112.4 Insert $25.00 and $500.00 for amounts.
      Open burning shall comply with the International Fire Code and section 4-
1-6- AIR POLLUTION CONTROL.
   Section 307.4.1: Bonfires. A bonfire shall not be conducted within 50 feet
(15,230 mm) of a structure or combustible material unless the fire is contained
in a barbeque pit. Conditions that could cause a fire to spread within 25 feet
(7,620 mm) of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
   Section 307.4.1: Add By permit when approved by the fire code official.
   Section 307.4.2 Recreational fires. Recreational fires shall not be
conducted within 20 feet of a structure or combustible material. Conditions
that could cause a fire to spread within 20 feet of a structure shall be
eliminated.
      •   The fires fuel area cannot be more than three feet in diameter and
must be two feet or less in height.
   307.4.3 Portable outdoor fireplaces. Portable outdoor fireplaces shall be
used in accordance with manufactures instructions and shall not be operated
within 15’ (3,048 mm) of a structure or combustible material.
      Delete exception: Portable outdoor fireplaces used at one and two family
dwellings.
   307.4.3.2 Permanent outdoor fireplaces and fire pits fueled by natural gas
shall be on non-combustible surfaces and ten feet from combustible material and
follow manufactures requirements. A fuel shut off is required.
      •   The fires fuel area cannot be more than three feet in diameter and
must be two feet or less in height or follow manufactures requirements and
approved by the fire code official.
   Section 308.1.4 Open-flame cooking devices. Charcoal burners and other open
flame cooking devices shall not be operated on combustible balconies or within
10’ of combustible balconies.
      Exceptions: Delete Exception: 1. One and two-family dwellings.
      Delete Exception: 2. Where buildings, balconies and decks are protected
by an automatic sprinkler system.
      Delete Exception: 3. LP gas cooking devices having LP-gas container with
a water capacity not greater than 2.5 lbs LP-gas capacity.
      •   Air Pollution Control: Amend Section 4-1-6; Item C: Portable and
fixed outdoor natural gas fireplace location is not less than 15’ from any
structures, including houses, sheds, decks, fences, vehicles or combustibles,
located in the rear yard only and adequate provisions are made to prevent fire
from spreading within 15’ of any structures. A fixed noncombustible patio with
a natural gas or propane gas grill can be within 10’ of a structure.
         •   The fires fuel area cannot be more than three feet in diameter and
must be two feet or less in height or follow manufactures requirements and
approved by the fire code official.
   Add Section 322
   322.1 General.
      The storage of lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries shall comply with
Section 322.
      Exceptions:
      1.   New or refurbished batteries installed in the equipment, devices or
vehicles they are designed to power.
      2.   New or refurbished batteries packed for use with the equipment
devices or vehicles they are designed to power.
      3.   Temporary storage of batteries or battery components during the
battery manufacturing process prior to completion of final quality control
checks.
      4.   Temporary storage of batteries during the vehicle manufacturing or
repair process.
   322.2 Permits.
      Permits shall be required for an accumulation of more than 15 cubic feet
(0.42 m3) of lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries.
   322.3 Fire safety plan.
      A fire safety plan shall be provided in accordance with Section 404. In
addition. the fire safety plan shall include emergency response actions to be
taken upon detection of a fire or possible fire involving lithium-ion or
lithium metal battery storage.
   322.4 Storage requirements.
      Lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries shall be stored in accordance
with Section 322.4.1, 322.4.2 or 322.4.3 as applicable.
   322.4.1 Limited indoor storage in containers.
      Not more than 15 cubic feet (0.42 m3) of lithium-ion or lithium metal
batteries shall be permitted to be stored in containers in accordance with all
of the following:
      1.   Containers shall be open top and constructed of noncombustible
materials or shall be approved for battery collection.
      2.   Individual containers and groups of containers shall not exceed a
capacity of 7.5 cubic feet (0.21 m3).
      3.   A second container or group of containers shall be separated by not
less than 3 feet (914 mm) of open space or 10 feet (3048 mm) of space that
contains combustible materials.
      4.   Containers shall be located not less than 5 feet (1524 mm) from
exits or exir access doors.
   322.4.2 Indoor storage areas.
      Indoor storage areas for lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries, other
than those complying with Section 322.4.1, shall comply with Sections
   322.4.2.1 through 322.4.2.6.
   322.4.2.1 Technical opinion and report.
      A technical opinion and report complying with Section 104.2.2 shall be
prepared to evaluate the fire and explosion risks associated with the indoor
storage area and to make recommendations for fire and explosion protection. The
report shall be submitted to the fire code official and shall require the fire
code official's approval prior to issuance of a permit. In addition to the
requirements of Section 104.2.2, the technical opinion and report shall
specifically evaluate the following:
         1.   The potential for deflagration of flammable gases released during
a thermal runaway event.
         2.   The basis of design for an automatic sprinkler system or other
approved fire suppression system. Such design basis shall reference relevant
full-scale fire testing or another approved method of demonstrating sufficiency
of the recommended design.
   322.4.2.2 Construction requirements.
      Lithium-ion and lithium metal battery storage will not be permitted where
indoor storage areas for lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries are located in
a building with other uses.
   322.4.2.3 Fire protection systems.
      Indoor storage areas for lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries shall be
protected by an automatic sprinkler system complying with Section 903.3.1.1 or
an approved alternative fire suppression system. The system design shall be
based on recommendations in the approved technical opinion and report required
by Section 322.4.2.1.
   322.4.2.4 Fire alarm systems.
      Indoor storage areas for lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries shall be
provided with an approved automatic fire detection and alarm system complying
with Section 907. The fire detection system shall use air-aspirating smoke
detection, radiant energy-sensing fire detection or both.
   322.4.2.5 Explosion control cop
      Where the approved technical opinion and repon required by Section
322.4.2. 1 recommends explosion control, explosion control complying with
Section 911 shall be provided.
   322.4.2.6 Reduced requirements for storage of partially charged batteries.
      Indoor storage areas for lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries with a
demonstrated state of charge not exceeding 30 percent shall not be required to
comply wrth Sections 322.4.2.1, 322.4.2.2 and 322.4.2.5, provided that
procedures for limiting and verifying that the state of charge will not exceed
30 percent have been approved.
   322.4.2.7 Seperation from other structures.
      Where there is storage of lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries, the
structure where storage is taking place shall be a minimum of 200 feet from any
other structure.
   322.4.3 Outdoor storage.
      Outdoor storage of lithium-ion or lithium metal batteries shall not be
permitted.
   Section 903.2 Approved automatic sprinkler systems in new buildings and
structures shall be provided
      Delete text: "in the locations described in sections 903.2.1 through
903.2.12"
      903.2 Add text: "all use groups other than residential greater than 4,000
square feet in size and all groups A-5 @1000 square foot, R, H and I regardless
of size". Those single family homes shall have an approved exterior horn/strobe
Add and an interior horn strobe outside the master bedroom that activates on
sprinkler water flow and a 10" bell connected to the HVAC duct work in the
basement to notify the resident of sprinkler activation. A sprinkler head shall
be added from the residential home at the doorway to the garage. Location to be
approved by the fire code official.
      Section 903.3.8.5 Add: Fire sprinklers in a commercial building shall
have a 10% psi safety factor between the demand and available pressures.
      Section 907.2 Where Required. An approved fire alarm system installed in
accordance with the provisions of this code and NFPA 72 shall be provided in
new buildings and structures in accordance with sections 907.2.1 through
907.2.23 and provide occupant notification in accordance with section 907.5,
unless other requirements are provided by another section of this code.
      Delete text: in new buildings and structures in accordance with sections
907.2.1 through 907.2.23
      Insert text: in all locations which have fire suppression are required to
have a fire alarm system, or any use group greater than 2,500 square feet.
   Section 907.2. A Buildings equipped with automatic fire suppression with
flow switches placed on each floor level will not require smoke detection. The
code official may require smoke detection in areas such as electrical rooms or
rooms not easily identifiable to firefighting forces. Each building with a fire
alarm shall have an approved exterior red strobe that activates on all alarms
which will be located by the code official and an approved blue strobe placed
1' above the exterior sprinkler bell that activates on water flow only.
Historical districts are exempt from the exterior horn/strobe requirements.
   Section 1013.1 Add: “Floor level exit signs are required in use group A2,
night clubs".
   5001.1 (Hazardous Materials General Provisions) Add: "based on the zoning
district and the fire code official approval."
   Section 5504.1 (Storage Cryogenic Fluids) Shall be limited to industrial
zoned properties and requires issuance of special permit approved by the fire
code official.
   Section 5604.1 (Explosive Material Storage And Handling) The storage of
explosive materials is prohibited in the jurisdiction of the village of West
Dundee without special permit approved by the fire code official.
   Section 5704.2.9 (Storage Flammable And Combustible Liquid Tanks) Add:
"above ground storage of flammable and combustible liquids shall not be
permitted without special permit approved by the fire code official".
   Section 6104.2 Liquefied petroleum gas shall be limited to any one
installation not exceeding a water capacity of 500 gallons without special
permit approved by the fire code official.
   Adopt appendix B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I.
(Ord. 14-35, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2024-1, 1-22-2024;
Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
CHAPTER 2
AIRCRAFT LANDINGS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Restriction On Landing Within Corporate Limits
5-2-3: Exemptions
5-2-4: Violation; Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed for
navigation of or flight in the air.
CIVIL AIRCRAFT: Any aircraft other than public aircraft.
NAVIGABLE WATERS: Any stream, creek or river within three (3) miles of the
corporate limits of the village but not within the corporate limits of another
municipality.
OPERATOR: A person who causes or authorizes the operation of an aircraft
whether with or without the right of legal control of the aircraft.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, public service corporation or body politic.
PUBLIC AIRCRAFT: An aircraft used exclusively in the service of any government
or of any political subdivision thereof, including the government of any state,
territory, or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, but
not including any government owned aircraft engaged in carrying persons or
property for commercial purposes. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-
21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
5-2-2: RESTRICTION ON LANDING WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS:
It is unlawful for the operator of any civil aircraft to cause or permit said
civil aircraft to land or otherwise make any physical touching at any time on
or upon any navigable water within the corporate limits or on or upon any land
within the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord.
2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
5-2-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall not apply to any valid permit issued pursuant to the
Illinois aeronautics act 1  prior to the effective date hereof.
   B.   This chapter shall not apply to aircraft used in building construction,
medical emergencies, movie making, and special events approved by the village
board or to a hot air balloon, provided the user of such aircraft or hot air
balloon shall have first:
      1.   Made application for permit to the village in writing of the
intended use including date, location and amount of time necessary and paid the
required fee.
      2.   Provided a certificate of insurance showing liability insurance for
property damage and personal injury in an amount and form satisfactory to the
village board.
      3.   Provided an indemnification agreement in a form with a surety both
acceptable to the village board. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code; Ord.
2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
 
Notes
1 1. 620 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
5-2-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates this chapter shall be fined as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1  of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, -
-2025)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Public Displays
5-3-3: Storage Regulations
5-3-4: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-3-5: Violation; Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The term “fireworks” shall mean and include any explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by
explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank
cartridges, toy cannons, in which explosives are used, the type of balloons
which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets, Roman candles, bombs, or other fireworks of like construction and
any fireworks containing any explosive compound, or any tablets or other device
containing any explosive substance, or containing combustible substances
producing visual effects. The term “fireworks” shall also include snake or
glowworm pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as “party poppers”,
“booby traps”, “snappers”, “trick matches”, “cigarette loads” and “auto burglar
alarms”; and sparklers; provided however, that the term “fireworks” shall not
include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or
plastic caps containing twenty five hundredths grain or less of explosive
compound are used, providing they are so constructed that the hand cannot come
in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper
or plastic caps which contain less than twenty hundredths grain of explosive
mixture; the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times. (Ord. 03-
23, 6-2-2003; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
5-3-2: PUBLIC DISPLAYS:
   A.   Permit Required: No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics
shall be given unless a permit therefor is first secured from the village board
thirty (30) days before the time of such display. All such public displays
shall be under the supervision of a competent person, and shall be
superintended by the chief of the fire department or some other member of the
fire department assigned to this duty by him.
   B.   Bond And Insurance Requirement: No permit, as required in subsection A
of this section, shall be issued unless the applicant therefor has filed with
the village clerk a public liability bond or policy bond in the sum of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) conditioned to pay any damage to property or
injury to persons that may result or accrue from the storage, handling or
display of such pyrotechnics. Additionally, no permit shall be issued unless
the applicant therefor has filed with the village clerk a fireworks display
application form and certificate of insurance naming the village as a primary,
noncontributory additional insured with limits of not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and excess coverage of not less than
four million dollars ($4,000,000.00) covering general liability including
bodily injury, personal injury and property damage and providing no shooter
exclusion. Such certificate shall provide that the insurance shall not be
terminated or renewed for any reason without thirty (30) days' advance written
notice to the village.
   C.   Smoking Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person in charge of such
public displays to smoke any lighted pipe, cigarette or cigar at any time
during which such public display is going on or in the vicinity of materials to
be used for such displays. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 03-23, 6-2-2003;
Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
5-3-3: STORAGE REGULATIONS:
All permitted explosives must be stored or kept in accordance with the
provisions of the statutes related thereto. (Ord. 03-23, 6-2-2003; amd. Ord.
2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
5-3-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Sale, Storage Or Discharge:
      1.   It is unlawful to possess, sell, store, discharge or set off any
fireworks or to give any pyrotechnic display in the village, except in
connection with public exhibitions as is herein provided.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, offer
for sale, or keep for the purpose of selling, any fireworks in the village at
any time.
   B.   Manufacturing: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
manufacture any fireworks in the village.
   C   Storage Of Nitroglycerin And TNT: It is unlawful to keep or store any
nitroglycerin or the explosive commonly known as TNT in the village in any
quantities, excepting for medicinal or laboratory purposes and for such
purposes no more than one- quarter ounce shall be stored in any one building or
premises. (Ord. 03-23, 6-2-2003; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, -
-2025)
5-3-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
03-23, 6-2-2003; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
5-4-1: General Statement Of Liability For Payment Of Expenses
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Hazardous Materials Incident Expense Recovery
5-4-4: Limitation Of Liability
5-4-1: GENERAL STATEMENT OF LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT OF EXPENSES:
The recipients, benefactors, administrators, personal representatives,
executors, successors, heirs or assigns thereof, determined to be the
recipients of emergency assistance and/or emergency services as a result of an
incident involving known or potentially hazardous materials, shall be obligated
to reimburse the village for any extraordinary expenses and/or supplies and
equipment expended as a result of services or assistance provided. In addition,
reimbursement shall extend to third parties for services rendered and/or
supplies and equipment expended as a result of their involvement in the
incident. Said reimbursement to the village and all appropriate third parties
shall also include the cost of all related medical monitoring and/or medical
treatment of any representatives who, as a part of their association with the
incident, may have or has come in contact with known or potentially hazardous
materials. (Ord. 93-16, 9-27-1993; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06,
- -2025)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any mixtures, solutions or compounds which in normal
use, when released from its container, when brought in contact with other
materials or substances, or when exposed to temperature/pressure changes is
capable of posing a risk, real or perceived, to the health and safety of
humans, wildlife, and/or the environment, in addition to potential property
damage, or as defined by the Illinois environmental protection act, the federal
environmental protection agency, or any other applicable state or federal laws
or regulations.
   THIRD PARTY: Any person, persons, company, corporation or business entity
other than an employee or department of the village specifically used to
investigate and/or mitigate an incident. (Ord. 93-16, 9-27-1993; amd. Ord.
2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
5-4-3: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT EXPENSE RECOVERY:
   A.   A person causing or permitting a hazardous material incident shall be
responsible for the following:
      1.   Reimbursement in full for any and all costs incurred by the village
in responding to such hazardous materials incidents at the rate of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per hour per vehicle (or any fraction of an hour) and the
hourly rate of pay, including overhead costs, for each employee who
participates in such response to a hazardous materials incident.
      2.   Reimbursement in full for any and all costs incurred by the village
for equipment and materials damaged, lost, spent, destroyed or rendered
irreparable in connection with a hazardous materials incident.
      3.   Assumption of and all liability and costs for any cleanup or removal
resulting from a hazardous material incident, including, but not limited to,
expenses charged by any "third party" as defined in section
5-4-2  of this chapter, which may be necessitated by such hazardous material
incident.
   B.   The village shall prepare and forward to the person or persons causing
or permitting a hazardous material incident, a bill for the total costs and
expenses incurred for which said person or persons are responsible pursuant to
this section; provided, however, any cost in connection with any third party
shall be billed directly by such third party. Payment of the total bill shall
be made within thirty (30) days of receipt. Any bill or portion of a bill
remaining unpaid after thirty (30) days of receipt shall accrue interest on the
unpaid balance at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month, or
fraction of a month. (Ord. 93-16, 9-27-1993; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord.
2025-06, - -2025)
5-4-4: LIMITATION OF LIABILITY:
The village, its agents, its officers and/or employees shall not have any
liability or responsibility for any claim, injury or damage of any kind
resulting from a potentially hazardous material incident to which the village
or any of its officers, agents or employees responds.
(Ord. 93-16, 9-27-1993; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE ALARMS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Stations; Emergency Answering Service
5-5-4: False Alarm Fees
5-5-5: Inspection Of Alarm System
5-5-6: Automatic Dialers
5-5-7: Penalty
5-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the installation of fire alarm
systems and to reduce nonwarranted emergency responses of police and fire
personnel. (Ord. 14-30, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, -
-2025)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALARM AGENT: Any person working for an alarm business.
ALARM BUSINESS: Any business operated by a person who engages in the activity
of altering, installing, leasing, maintaining, moving, repairing, replacing,
selling, servicing, or responding to an emergency alarm system, or which causes
any of these activities to take place.
ALARM USER: Any person or business on whose premises an alarm system is
maintained other than alarm systems on a motor vehicle.
AUTOMATIC ALARM: An assembly of equipment arranged to signal the presence of a
hazard requiring urgent attention and to which the police or fire department
are expected to respond.
AUTOMATIC DIGITAL DIALING ALARM EQUIPMENT: An alarm system that has the
capability of transmitting digital code signals to an alarm receiving board at
the public safety answering point (PSAP) center. The alarm system uses existing
telephone lines instead of a dedicated line.
AUTOMATIC VOICE DIALING ALARM EQUIPMENT: Refers to an alarm system which
automatically sends over regular telephone lines, by direct connect or
otherwise, a prerecorded voice message indicating the existence of the
emergency situation that the alarm system is designed to detect.
CENTRAL STATION SYSTEM: A system in which the operation of electrical
protection circuits and devices are signaled automatically to, recorded in,
maintained, and supervised from a place of business having trained operators in
attendance at all times.
CONTRACTOR: Authorized village alarm contractor means the alarm company
currently having a contract for provision and maintenance of the police and
fire computerized alarm system, at Quadcom communication center.
EMERGENCY ANSWERING SERVICE: A telephone answering service providing among its
services the job of receiving on a continuous basis through trained employees,
emergency signals from alarm systems, and thereafter immediately relaying the
message by live voice to the village communication center.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of an alarm system through mechanical or electronic
failure, malfunction, improper installation or the negligence of the owner or
lessee of an alarm system or of his employees or agents, except that the
following shall not be considered false alarms:
   A.   Alarms caused by the failure or malfunction of the equipment located at
PSAP center.
   B.   Alarms occurring on a repeated basis without apparent cause within the
first sixty (60) days after installation of the alarm detection system, and
where continuous effort, in the sole opinion of the village alarm
administrator, is being made jointly by the alarm user, the fire and inspection
department, and any other concerned person to correct the malfunction
expeditiously.
   C.   Alarms caused by an attempted or actual illegal entry, of which there
is visible evidence.
   D.   Alarms caused by an on premises fire.
   E.   Alarms intentionally caused by a person acting under a reasonable
belief that a need exists to call the police or fire department.
   F.   Alarms caused by hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, major floods,
storms, or other natural disasters.
HARDWIRED ALARMS: An alarm system which has the capability of transmitting
system signals to and receiving them at a remote location over dedicated lines.
MODIFIED CENTRAL STATION SYSTEM: An office to which remote alarm and
supervisory signaling devices are connected, where operators supervise the
circuits.
ON PREMISES ALARM: Alarm system that audibly announces an emergency condition
at an individual or corporate establishment which may or may not be connected
to any central alarm system.
PSAP: Public safety answering point. (Ord. 14-30, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-25,
8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
5-5-3: STATIONS; EMERGENCY ANSWERING SERVICE:
   A.   Licensing Required: No one shall operate a central station, modified
central station, or emergency answering service in the village unless licensed
as an alarm business.
   B.   Monitoring: Alarm monitoring shall be in compliance with the 2021
international fire code, section 907.6.6. Alarm, supervisory and trouble
signals shall be distinctly different and shall be transmitted to an approved
supervising station or, when approved by the fire code official, shall sound an
audible signal at a constantly attended location. Alarm signals shall be sent
via radio signals. (Ord. 14-30, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord.
2025-06, - -2025)
5-5-4: FALSE ALARM FEES:
   A.   Service Charge: When an alarm user's system shall cause false alarms, a
service charge for those false alarms received by the village within a twelve
(12) month period shall be made to the subscriber based on the rates listed in
this section. Upon receipt of the third false alarm from a subscriber within a
twelve (12) month period, the fire and inspection department shall send notice
to the subscriber placing them on notice that the next false alarm shall
require payment of a fee. In the event six (6) or more false alarms are
received within a twelve (12) month period by the village, the fire and
inspection department shall cause a written warning to be sent to the alarm
user notifying him of the number and dates of the false alarms. If further
false alarms are received, the fire and inspection department is empowered to
direct that the alarm be disconnected from the PSAP except that alarms
otherwise required by law shall not be disconnected. When a subscriber of any
other alarm business or alarm user shall cause false alarms, a service charge
for those false alarms received by the village within a twelve (12) month
period shall be made to the subscriber based on the rates listed in this
section. The billing for the twelve (12) month period shall be renewed January
1 of each year.
   B.   False Alarm Service Charge Rates:
 
Number Of False Alarms Service charge within the village of West Dundee
0 - 3                  No charge
4 - 5                  $100.00
6 or more              $200.00
 
      1.   Trouble alarms that meet the criteria of "false alarms" are charged
at a flat rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each occurrence after the third
signal. The fire department shall evaluate and determine the duration of an
occurrence as trouble signals can become multiple signals.
      2.   Billing for false alarm fees shall indicate the date, time, and
nature of each false alarm response, and shall specify the amount of fees
owing.
      3.   Alarm users may within ten (10) days of receiving a bill for false
alarm fees submit a written report to the fire and inspection department
specifically stating which false alarms were caused by circumstances beyond the
user's control. The alarm user shall also submit documentation to support the
report and specifically state what steps have been taken to prevent further
false alarms.
      4.   The fire and inspection department shall have thirty (30) days to
review the report, and shall determine if the false alarm or alarms were
preventable or not preventable. If the fire and inspection department
determines the false alarm or alarms were not preventable, the alarm user shall
not be required to pay the false alarm service charge. If the fire and
inspection department finds the false alarm or alarms were preventable, the
alarm user shall pay the false alarm service charge fee within thirty (30) days
or shall be subject to disconnection or revocation of his permit. (Ord. 14-30,
8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023 ; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
5-5-5: INSPECTION OF ALARM SYSTEM:
   A.   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter the fire
and inspection department shall have the authority, at reasonable times and
upon reasonable oral notice, to enter any premises in the village in or upon
which alarm systems or alarm businesses subject to this chapter are located, to
inspect the installation or operation of such alarm systems or alarm business
on official business.
   B.   If such inspection reveals any violations of the provisions of this
chapter, a written report detailing such violation shall be promptly sent to
the owner, lessee, or other person responsible for the alarm system or business
in violation of this chapter. Such report shall require the correction within
thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice of the violation discovered, and
shall state that a failure to comply may result in the revocation of the alarm
business' license to operate, or in the revocation of the alarm user's permit,
in accordance with provisions of this chapter relating to revocation of
licenses and permits. The alarm user or alarm business shall be granted a
reasonable extension of time to correct such violation upon good cause shown.
(Ord. 14-30, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
5-5-6: AUTOMATIC DIALERS:
No person, firm, or corporation shall use or cause or permit to be used, or
engage in the business of providing any telephone device and telephone
attachment that automatically activates 911 lines connected to any regional
communications public safety answering point (PSAP) telephone, and then
reproduce any voice message to report any robbery, burglary, fire or other
emergency. (Ord. 14-30, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, -
-2025)
5-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or who
resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, including
provisions adopted by reference, or who refuses to remedy a violation of any
such provision or to remedy violations of this chapter shall be as provided in
the general penalty in section
1-4-1  of this code for each offense, and each day upon which such a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 14-30, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord.
2023-25, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2025-06, - -2025)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, SAFETY AND MORALS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Short Title
6-1-2: General Purposes
6-1-3: Applicability Of Common Law
6-1-4: Civil Remedies Preserved
6-1-5: Village Criminal Jurisdiction
6-1-6: Illinois Compiled Statutes Adopted
6-1-7: General Definitions
6-1-8: Bodily Harm
6-1-8-1: Assault
6-1-8-2: Battery
6-1-8-3: Reckless Conduct
6-1-8-4: Criminal Housing Management
6-1-8-5: Tattooing Body Of Minor
6-1-9: Criminal Damage To Property
6-1-10: Criminal Trespass
6-1-11: Disorderly Conduct/Loitering
6-1-12: Resisting Or Obstructing A Peace Officer
6-1-13: Retail Theft
6-1-13-1: Legislative Declaration
6-1-13-2: Definitions
6-1-13-3: Offense Of Retail Theft
6-1-13-4: Presumptions
6-1-13-5: Detention
6-1-13-6: Violations; Penalty
6-1-14: Sex Offenses
6-1-14-1: Public Indecency
6-1-14-2: Prostitution
6-1-14-3: Obscenity
6-1-14-4: Harmful Material
6-1-15: Theft And Related Offenses
6-1-16: Weapons
6-1-17: Public Nudity
6-1-18: Video Gaming
6-1-19: Open Container Law
6-1-20: Truancy
6-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE,
SAFETY AND MORALS. (2004 Code)
6-1-2: GENERAL PURPOSES:
The provisions of this chapter shall be construed in accordance with the
general purposes hereof to:
   A.   Forbid and prevent the commission of offenses;
   B.   Define adequately the act which constitutes each offense;
   C.   Prescribe penalties which are proportionate to the seriousness of
offenses and which permit recognition of differences in rehabilitation
possibilities among individual offenders. (2004 Code)
6-1-3: APPLICABILITY OF COMMON LAW:
No conduct constitutes an offense unless it is described as an offense in this
chapter or in another ordinance of this village. However, this provision does
not affect the power of a court to punish for contempt or to employ any
sanction authorized by law for the enforcement of an order of civil judgment.
(2004 Code)
6-1-4: CIVIL REMEDIES PRESERVED:
This chapter does not bar, suspend, or otherwise affect any right or liability
to damages, penalty, forfeiture, or other remedy authorized by law to be
recovered or enforced in a civil action for any conduct which this chapter
makes punishable; and the civil injury is not merged in the offense. (2004
Code)
6-1-5: VILLAGE CRIMINAL JURISDICTION:
   A.   A person is subject to prosecution in this village for an offense which
he commits, while either within or outside the village, by his own conduct or
that of another for which he is legally accountable, if:
      1.   The offense is committed either wholly or partly within the village;
or
      2.   The conduct outside the village constitutes an attempt to commit an
offense within the village.
   B.   An offense is committed partly within this village, if either the
conduct which is an element of the offense, or the result which is such an
element, occurs within the village.
   C.   An offense that is based on an omission to perform a duty imposed by
the law of this village is committed within the village, regardless of the
location of the offender at the time of the omission. (2004 Code)
6-1-6: ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES ADOPTED:
Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2, the village hereby adopts by
reference the following Illinois Compiled Statutes:
   A.   Act 5, criminal code of 1961, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et
seq.
   B.   Act 405, juvenile court act of 1987, 705 Illinois Compiled Statutes
405/1-1 et seq.
   C.   Act 550, cannabis control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et
seq.
   D.   Act 570, Illinois controlled substances act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 570/100 et seq. (2004 Code)
   E.   Act 5, liquor control act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5-10-
1 et seq.
   F.   Act 5, liquor control act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 6-16
et seq. (Ord. 07-16, 5-21-2007)
6-1-7: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases described in this
chapter have the meanings designated in this chapter, except when a particular
context clearly requires a different meaning. If a word or phrase is not
otherwise defined in the village ordinance, the word or phrase shall be defined
by the definition contained in the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   ACQUITTAL: A verdict or finding of not guilty of an offense, rendered by a
legally constituted jury or by a court of competent jurisdiction authorized to
try the case without a jury.
   ACT: Includes a failure or omission to take action.
   ANOTHER: A "person" or persons as defined in this chapter other than the
offender.
   CONDUCT: An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
   CONVICTION: A judgment of conviction or sentence entered upon a plea of
guilty or upon a verdict of finding of guilty of an offense, rendered by a
legally constituted jury or by a court of competent jurisdiction authorized to
try the case without a jury.
   DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, a tent, a vehicle, or other
enclosed space, which is used or intended for use as a human habitation, home,
or residence.
   INCLUDED OFFENSE: An offense which:
   A.   Is established by proof of the same or less than all of the facts or a
less culpable mental state (or both), than that which is required to establish
the commission of the offense charged, or
   B.   Consists of an attempt to commit the offense charged or an offense
included therein.
   INCLUDES OR INCLUDING: Comprehending among other particulars, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing word or phrase.
   MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
   OFFENSE: A violation of any statute or ordinance of this village.
   PEACE OFFICER: Any person who by virtue of his office or public employment
is vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
   PERSON: An individual, public or private corporation, government,
partnership, or unincorporated association.
   PROSECUTION: All legal proceedings by which a person's liability for an
offense is determined, commencing with the return of the indictment or the
issuance of the information, and including the final disposition of the case
upon appeal.
   PUBLIC EMPLOYEE: A person, other than a public officer, who is authorized to
perform any official function on behalf of, and is paid by, the state or any of
its political subdivisions.
   PUBLIC OFFICER: A person who is elected to office pursuant to statute, or
ordinance, or who is, appointed to an office, which is established, and the
qualifications and duties of which are prescribed, by statute, or ordinance, to
discharge a public duty for the village.
   PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY SERVICE: Uncompensated labor for a nonprofit
organization or public body whose purpose is to enhance physical or mental
stability, environmental quality or the social welfare and which agrees to
accept public or community service from offenders and to report on the progress
of the public or community service to the court.
   REASONABLE BELIEF OR REASONABLY BELIEVES: The person concerned, acting as a
reasonable man, believes that the described facts exist.
   SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: To command, authorize, urge, incite, request, or
advises another to commit an offense.
   STATUTE OR ORDINANCE: The constitution or an act of the board of trustees of
the village of West Dundee.
   VILLAGE OR THIS VILLAGE: The village of West Dundee, and all land and water
in respect to which the village of West Dundee has either exclusive or
concurrent jurisdiction, and the air space above such land and water. "Other
village" or "other municipality" means any other village or other municipality
in the state of Illinois. (2004 Code)
6-1-8: BODILY HARM:
6-1-8-1: ASSAULT:
   A.   Commits An Assault: A person commits an assault when, without lawful
authority, he engages in conduct which places another in reasonable
apprehension of receiving a battery. Assault is punishable by fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) to five hundred dollars ($500.00) and/or public or community
service, not to exceed sixty (60) hours.
   B.   Aggravated Assault: A person commits an aggravated assault, when, in
committing an assault, he:
      1.   Uses a dangerous weapon, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/33A-1, or any device manufactured and designed to be substantially
similar in appearance to a firearm other than by discharging a firearm in the
direction of another person;
      2.   Is hooded, robed or masked in such manner as to conceal his
identity;
      3.   Knows the individual assaulted to be a teacher or other person
employed in any school and such teacher or other employee is upon the grounds
of a school or grounds adjacent thereto, or is in any part of a building used
for school purposes;
      4.   Knows the individual assaulted to be a supervisor, director,
instructor or other person employed in any park district and such supervisor,
director, instructor or other employee is upon the grounds of the park or
grounds adjacent thereto, or is in any part of a building used for park
purposes;
      5.   Knows the individual assaulted to be a caseworker, investigator, or
other person employed by the state department of public aid or a county
department of public aid and such caseworker, investigator, or other person is
upon the grounds of a public aid office or grounds adjacent thereto, or is in
any part of a building used for public aid purposes, or upon the grounds of a
home of a public aid applicant, recipient or any other person being interviewed
or investigated in the employee's discharge of his duties, or on the grounds
adjacent thereto, or is in any part or a building in which the applicant,
recipient, or other such person resides or is located;
      6.   Knows the individual assaulted to be a peace officer, or a person
summoned and directed by him or a correctional officer, while such officer is
engaged in the execution of any of his official duties;
      7.   Knows the individual assaulted to be a fireman engaged in the
execution of his official duties;
      8.   Knows the individual assaulted to be a driver, operator, employee or
passenger of any transportation facility or system engaged in the business of
transportation of the public for hire and the individual assaulted is then
performing in such capacity or then using such public transportation as a
passenger or using any area of any description designated by the transportation
facility or system as a vehicle boarding, departure, or transfer location;
      9.   Or the individual assaulted is on or about a public way, public
property, or public place of accommodation or amusement; or
      10.   Knows the individual assaulted to be an employee of the state of
Illinois, a municipal corporation therein or a political subdivision thereof,
engaged in the performance of his authorized duties as such employee.
   B.   Penalty: Aggravated assault is punishable by fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or
community service, not exceeding one hundred twenty (120) hours. (2004 Code)
6-1-8-2: BATTERY:
   A.   Commits Battery: A person commits battery if he intentionally or
knowingly without legal justification and by any means:
      1.   Causes bodily harm to an individual, or
      2.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
   B.   Penalty: Battery is punishable by fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community service, not
exceeding one hundred twenty (120) hours. (2004 Code)
6-1-8-3: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
   A.   Commits Reckless Conduct: A person who causes bodily harm to or
endangers the bodily safety of an individual by any means, commits reckless
conduct if he performs recklessly the acts, which cause the harm or endanger
safety, whether they otherwise are lawful or unlawful.
   B.   Penalty: Reckless conduct is punishable by fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community
service, not exceeding one hundred twenty (120) hours. (2004 Code)
6-1-8-4: CRIMINAL HOUSING MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Commits Criminal Housing Management: A person commits the offense of
criminal housing management when, having personal management or control of
residential real estate, whether as a legal or equitable owner of residential
real estate or as a managing agent or otherwise, he knowingly permits by his
gross carelessness or neglect the physical condition or facilities of the
residential real estate to become or remain so deteriorated that the health or
safety of an inhabitant is endangered.
   B.   Sentence: Criminal housing management is punishable by fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or
community service, not exceeding one hundred twenty (120) hours plus
restoration of the real estate to suitable requirements of the village. (2004
Code)
6-1-8-5: TATTOOING BODY OF MINOR 1 :
Any person, other than a person licensed to practice medicine in all its
branches, who tattoos or offers to tattoo a person under the age of twenty one
(21) is guilty of a class A misdemeanor. As used in this section, to "tattoo"
means to insert pigment under the surface of the skin of a human being, by
pricking with a needle or otherwise, so as to produce an indelible mark or
figure visible through the skin. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  3-14-2 A15 of this code.
6-1-9: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   General Prohibition: No person shall damage, befoul, disturb, destroy
or deface any village property or any public or private property without
permission of the owner.
   B.   Graffiti:
      1.   Nuisance: It shall be unlawful, and is hereby declared a nuisance to
place graffiti, or permit graffiti to remain upon any public or private
curbstone, flagstone, brick, sidewalk or any portion of any part of any
sidewalk or street, or upon any tree, lamppost, telephone pole, utility box,
utility pole stanchion, postal mail receptacle, sign, hydrant, fence, door,
wall, window, garage or enclosure, vehicle, bridge, pier or upon any other
public or private structure or building.
      2.   Defined: "Graffiti" is any permanent display of any name,
identification, letter, numeral, figure, emblem, insignia, a picture, outline,
character, spectacle, delineation, illustration, symbol or any combination
thereof, which without authorization is marked, written, drawn, painted,
scratched, inscribed or affixed, and which is a different color from the color
of the exterior of those objects or structures described above and to which it
is affixed.
      3.   Removal: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to serve or
cause to be served, a notice upon the owner or party in possession of any such
object or structure upon which graffiti is present and to demand the abatement
of the nuisance within five (5) days. All exterior surfaces shall be kept clean
and free of graffiti. Surfaces which have been exposed to graffiti shall be
cleaned, painted or in some manner covered, so as to effect the complete
removal or the graffiti from that surface and return the surface to its prior
condition within five (5) days of receipt of the violation notice to the owner
unless extenuating circumstances prevent work from being done, in which case
the chief of police may give an extension for the removal of graffiti.
      4.   Penalty: Whoever violates any provision of this subsection B shall
be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/
or public or community service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours
for each offense and be responsible for the village's cost of prosecution. Each
day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
Restitution by the violator shall also be made to the owner of any property
damaged or destroyed.
   C.   Firefighting Apparatus, Hydrants Or Equipment: Whoever wilfully and
maliciously cuts, injures, damages, tampers with or destroys or defaces any
fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire engine, or other public or private
firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to such equipment, or
intentionally opens any fire hydrant without proper authorization, is guilty of
this offense, punishable by fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or community service and/or restitution to the
victim for cost of replacement of damaged equipment.
   D.   Village Supported Property: Any of the following acts is punishable by
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/
or public or community service not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours:
      1.   Knowingly damages any property supported in whole or in part with
village funds; or
      2.   Knowingly, by means of fire or explosives damages property supported
in whole or part with village funds; or
      3.   Knowingly starts a fire on property supported in whole or in part
with village funds; or
      4.   Knowingly, deposits on land or in a building supported in whole or
in part with village funds, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound
and thereby intends to interfere with the use by another of the land or
building. (2004 Code)
6-1-10: CRIMINAL TRESPASS:
   A.   Vehicles: Whoever knowingly and without authority enters any vehicle,
aircraft or watercraft or any part thereof of another without his consent
commits this offense, punishable by fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) to one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community service, not to exceed
one hundred twenty (120) hours.
   B.   Land:
      1.   Whoever enters upon the land of another, after receiving,
immediately prior to such entry, notice from the owner or occupant that such
entry is forbidden, or remains upon the land of another after receiving notice
from the owner or occupant to depart, commits this offense.
      2.   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of subsection B1 of this section if he has been notified personally,
either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such
entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such
land or the forbidden part thereof.
   C.   Village Supported Property:
      1.   Whoever enters upon land supported in whole or in part with village
funds, or any building on such land, after receiving, immediately prior to such
entry, notice from the village or its representatives that such entry is
forbidden, or remains upon such land or in such building after receiving notice
from the village or its representative to depart, and who thereby interferes
with another person's lawful use or enjoyment of such building or land, commits
this offense. Violation of this offense shall be punishable by fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community
service not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours.
      2.   A person has received notice from the village within the meaning of
subsection C1 of this section if he has been notified personally, either orally
or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry to him
or a group of which he is a part, has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to such land or the forbidden part thereof. (2004 Code)
6-1-11: DISORDERLY CONDUCT/LOITERING:
   A.   Elements Of The Offense: A person commits the offense of disorderly
conduct when he knowingly:
      1.   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace; or
      2.   Transmits in any manner to the fire department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that
such fire exists; or
      3.   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other device of an explosive nature is concealed in such a place that
its explosion would endanger human life, knowing that at the time of such
transmission there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such bomb or
explosive is concealed in such place; or
      4.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds
for believing that such an offense has been committed; or
      5.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it; or
      6.   While acting as a collection agent, as defined in the "collection
agency act", or as an employee of such collection agency, and while attempting
to collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged debtor which
is designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor; or
      7.   Engages in or aids or abets any fight, quarrel or other disturbance;
or
      8.   Disturbs any religious service, funeral, public or private meeting
or assembly of persons; or
      9.   Loiters or strolls in, about or upon any street, alley, parking lot
or other public way or public place or in any public gathering or assembly or
in or around any store, shopping mall, shop or business or commercial
establishment or on any private property or place without lawful business or
conducts himself in a lewd, wanton or lascivious manner in speech or behavior;
or
      10.   Urinates or defecates in any public place except in sanitary waste
facilities designed and maintained for such purpose, installed pursuant to the
building code of the village of West Dundee and connected to the village's
sewer system; or
      11.   Appears in a public place and is obviously under the influence of
alcohol or controlled substance, to the degree that he may endanger himself or
other persons or property, or alarm or disturb other persons in his vicinity;
or
      12.   Consumes beer or alcoholic liquor on the streets or in any public
place or premises not licensed for such purpose; or
      13.   Makes a telephone call with the intent to annoy another, whether
conversation ensues or not; or
      14.   Engages in obscene or indecent activities or entertainment; or
      15.   Uses any obscene, profane, threatening or inciting language in any
public place; or
      16.   Permits any assembly of people for the purpose of committing any
unlawful act or breach of the peace, or any riotous offense or disorderly
conduct, in or upon any premises owned or occupied by him or under his control
or interrupts or disturbs any lawful assembly of people by making any loud or
unusual noise, or by rude or indecent behavior, or by profane, obscene or
improper discourse or conduct; or
      17.   Obstructs, either singly or together with other persons, the flow
of vehicular or pedestrian traffic or refuses to clear such public way when
ordered to do so by a peace officer or other lawful authority; or
      18.   Disturbs, tends to disturb or aids in disturbing the peace of
others by violent, tumultuous, offensive or obstreperous conduct, and no person
shall knowingly permit such conduct upon any premises owned or possessed by him
or under his control.
   B.   Loitering Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare, place open to the public or near any public or private place in a
manner under circumstances manifesting the purpose to engage in drug related
activity contrary to any of the provisions of this code or the state of
Illinois criminal code of 1961, as amended.
      2.   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether such purpose is "manifested" shall include, but not be limited to:
         a.   Such person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller.
For purposes of this provision, a "known unlawful drug user, possessor or
seller" is a person who has, within the knowledge of the arresting officer,
been convicted in any court within this state of any violation involving the
use, possession or sale of any of the controlled substances referred to in the
Illinois criminal code of 1961, as amended, or such person who has been
convicted of any violation of the provisions of said Illinois criminal code of
1961, as amended, or substantially similar laws of any political subdivision of
this state or of any other state; or a person who displays the physical
characteristics of drug intoxication or usage, such as "needle tracks" or a
person who possesses drug paraphernalia as defined in the Illinois municipal
code of 1961, as amended; or
         b.   Such person is currently subject to an order prohibiting his
presence in a high drug activity geographic area; or
         c.   Such person behaves in a manner as to raise reasonable suspicion
that he is about to engage in or is then engaged in an unlawful drug related
activity including, by way of example only, such person acting as a "lookout";
or
         d.   Such person is physically identified by the officer as a member
of a "gang" or association which has, as its purpose, illegal drug activity; or
         e.   Such person transfers small objects or packages for currency in a
furtive fashion; or
         f.   Such person takes flight upon the appearance of a police officer;
or
         g.   Such person manifestly endeavors to conceal upon himself or
herself any object which reasonably could be involved in an unlawful drug
related activity; or
         h.   The area involved is by public repute known to be an area of
unlawful drug use and trafficking; or
         i.   The premises involved have been reported to law enforcement as a
place of suspected gang activity; or
         j.   Such person possesses any instrument, article of thing whose
customary or primary purpose is for the sale, administration or use of
controlled substances such as, but not limited to, crack pipes, push wires,
chore boys, hand scales, hypodermic needles, razor blades or other cutting
tools; or
         k.   Any vehicle involved is registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor or seller, or a person for whom there is an outstanding warrant for a
crime involving drug related activity.
   C.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall
be fined fifty dollars ($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or
public or community service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours and
be responsible for the village's cost of prosecution. Each day that a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Restitution by the violator
shall also be made to any property damaged or destroyed or person injured.
(2004 Code)
6-1-12: RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER:
   A.   Attempt To Resist Or Obstruct: Any person who takes a substantial step
towards knowingly resisting or obstructing the performance by one known to the
person to be a peace officer of any authorized act, within his official
capacity, is guilty of this offense and is subject to a fine of fifty dollars
($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community
service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours.
   B.   Resists Or Obstructs: Any person who knowingly resists or obstructs the
performance by one known to the person to be a peace officer of any authorized
act, within his official capacity, is guilty of this offense and subject to a
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or
public or community service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours.
(2004 Code)
6-1-13: RETAIL THEFT:
6-1-13-1: LEGISLATIVE DECLARATION:
It is the public policy of this village that the substantial burden placed upon
the economy of this village resulting from the rising incidence of retail theft
is a matter of grave concern to the people of this village who have a right to
be protected in their health, safety and welfare from the effects of this
crime. (2004 Code)
6-1-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the words and phrases defined in this section
have the meanings ascribed to them unless a contrary meaning is clear from the
context:
   CONCEAL: To "conceal" merchandise means that, although there may be some
notice of its presence, that merchandise is not visible through ordinary
observation.
   FULL RETAIL VALUE: The merchant's stated or advertised price of the
merchandise.
   MERCHANDISE: Any item of tangible personal property.
   MERCHANT: An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee or
independent contractor of such owner or operator.
   MINOR: A person who is less than seventeen (17) years of age, is
unemancipated and resides with his parents or legal guardian.
   PEACE OFFICER: Has the meaning ascribed to that term in section
6-1-2 of this chapter.
   PERSON: Any natural person or individual.
   PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Includes, but is not limited
to, the retail mercantile establishment; any common use areas in shopping
centers and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of a
merchant for the parking of vehicles for the convenience of the patrons of such
retail mercantile establishment.
   RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where merchandise is displayed,
held, stored or offered for sale to the public.
   SHOPPING CART: Those pushcarts of the type or types which are commonly
provided by grocery stores, drugstores or other retail mercantile
establishments for the use of the public in transporting commodities in stores
and markets and, incidentally, from the store to a place outside the store.
   UNDER RING: To cause the cash register or other sales recording device to
reflect less than the full retail value of the merchandise. (2004 Code)
6-1-13-3: OFFENSE OF RETAIL THEFT:
A person commits the offense of retail theft when he or she knowingly:
   A.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
   B.   Alters, transfers, or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia of
value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale, in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in
consort with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
   C.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale,
in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which such
merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of depriving
the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
   D.   Under rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise; or
   E.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart. (2004 Code)
6-1-13-4: PRESUMPTIONS:
If any person:
   A.   Conceals upon his or her person or among his or her belongings,
unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment; and
   B.   Removes that merchandise beyond the last known station for receiving
payments for that merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment such
person shall be presumed to have possessed, carried away or transferred such
merchandise with the intention of retaining it or with the intention of
depriving the merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of such
merchandise without paying the full retail value of such merchandise. (2004
Code)
6-1-13-5: DETENTION:
Any merchant who has reasonable grounds to believe that a person has committed
retail theft may detain such person, on or off the premises of a retail
mercantile establishment, in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of
time for all or any of the following purposes:
   A.   To request identification;
   B.   To verify such identification;
   C.   To make reasonable inquiry as to whether such person has in his
possession unpurchased merchandise and, to make reasonable investigation of the
ownership of such merchandise;
   D.   To inform a peace officer of the detention of the person and surrender
that person to the custody of a peace officer;
   E.   In the case of a minor, to inform a peace officer, the parents,
guardian or other private person interested in the welfare of that minor of
this detention and to surrender custody of such minor to such person.
A merchant may make a detention as permitted herein off the premises of a
retail mercantile establishment only if such detention is pursuant to an
immediate pursuit of such person. (2004 Code)
6-1-13-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Affirmative Defense: A detention as permitted in this section does not
constitute an arrest or an unlawful restraint, as defined in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 10-3, nor shall it render the merchant liable to the person
so detained.
   B.   Civil Liability: The parents or legal guardian of a minor who commits
the offense of retail theft as herein defined shall be civilly liable for the
full retail value or cost of repair or cost of replacement of the merchandise
and actual damages not to exceed the limitations provided in section 5 of the
"state Of Illinois parental responsibility law", approved October 6, 1969, as
now or hereafter amended. A conviction or plea of guilty of the retail theft is
not a prerequisite to the bringing of a civil suit hereunder. Recovery under
this section may be had in addition to, and is not limited by, any other
provision of law, which limits the liability of a parent or legal guardian for
tortuous conduct of a minor.
   C.   Penalty: Retail theft of property, the full retail value of which does
not exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) is punishable by fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community
service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours. (2004 Code)
6-1-14: SEX OFFENSES:
6-1-14-1: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
   A.   Commits Public Indecency: Any person of the age of seventeen (17) years
and upwards who performs any of the following acts in public place commits a
public indecency:
      1.   An act of sexual intercourse; or
      2.   An act of deviate sexual conduct; or
      3.   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to satisfy
the sexual desire of the person; or
      4.   A lewd fondling or caress of the body of another person of either
sex.
   B.   Public Place Defined: "Public place" for purposes of this section means
any place where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
   C.   Penalty: Public indecency is punishable by fine of fifty dollars
($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community
service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours. (2004 Code)
6-1-14-2: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Acts Of Prostitution:
      1.   Enumerated: Any person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any
of the following acts for money commits an act of prostitution:
         a.   Any act of sexual intercourse; or
         b.   Any act of deviate sexual conduct.
      2.   Penalty: Prostitution is punishable by fine of fifty dollars
($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community
service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours.
   B.   Soliciting For Prostitute:
      1.   Enumerated: Any person who has or exercises control over the use of
any places which could offer seclusion or shelter for the practice of
prostitution who performs any of the following acts keeps a place of
prostitution:
         a.   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such place for the purpose
of prostitution; or
         b.   Grants or permits the use of such place under circumstances from
which he could reasonably know that the place is used or is to be used for
purposes of prostitution; or
         c.   Permits the continued use of a place after becoming aware of
facts or circumstances from which he should reasonably know that the place is
being used for purposes of prostitution.
      2.   Penalty: Keeping a place of prostitution is punishable by fine of
fifty dollars ($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or
community service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours.
   C.   Patronizing A Prostitute:
      1.   Enumerated: Any person who performs any of the following acts with a
person not his or her spouse commits the offense of patronizing a prostitute:
         a.   Engages in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct
with a prostitute; or
         b.   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution with intent to
engage in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct.
      2.   Penalty: Patronizing a prostitute is punishable by fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community
service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours. (2004 Code)
6-1-14-3: OBSCENITY:
   A.   Elements Of The Offense: A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he:
      1.   Sells, delivers provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver or
provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene; or
      2.   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene; or
      3.   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
or
      4.   Performs an obscene act or otherwise obscene exhibition of his body
for gain; or
      5.   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material with
intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the laws or
regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      6.   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented or
held out by him to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   B.   Obscene, Defined: A thing is "obscene" if, considered as a whole, its
predominant appeal is to prurient interest, that is, a shameful or morbid
interest in nudity, sex or excretion, and if it goes substantially beyond
customary limits of candor in description or representation of such matters. A
thing is obscene even though the obscenity is latent, as in the case of
undeveloped photographs.
   C.   Interpretation Of Evidence: Obscenity shall be judged with reference to
ordinary adults, except that it shall be judged with reference to children or
other specially susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the
material or the circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for
or directed to such an audience.
Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale, dissemination,
distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being commercially
exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with
respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the conclusion that the
matter is utterly without redeeming social importance. In any prosecution for
an offense under this section evidence shall be admissible to show:
      1.   The character of the audience for which the material to which it was
designed or to which it was directed;
      2.   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for ordinary
adults or a special audience, and what effect if any, it would probably have on
the behavior of such people;
      3.   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits of
the material, or absence thereof;
      4.   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
village;
      5.   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, advertising or
other promotion of the material;
      6.   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   D.   Penalty: Obscenity is punishable by fine or fifty dollars ($50.00) to
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community service, not to
exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours.
   E.   Prima Facie Evidence: The creation, purchase, procurement or possession
of a mold, engraved plate, computerized template, computer program or other
embodiment of obscenity specially adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or
the possession of more than three (3) copies of obscene material shall be prima
facie evidence of an intent to disseminate.
   F.   Affirmative Defenses: It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      1.   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material. (2004 Code)
6-1-14-4: HARMFUL MATERIAL:
   A.   Elements Of The Offense: A person who, with knowledge that a person is
a child, that is a person under eighteen (18) years of age, or who fails to
exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the true age of a child, knowingly
distributes to or sends or causes to be sent to, or exhibits to, or offers to
distribute or exhibit any harmful material to a child, is guilty of this
offense.
   B.   Definitions:
      1.   Material is harmful if, to the average person, applying contemporary
standards, its predominant appeal, taken as a whole, is to prurient interest,
that is a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or excretion, which goes
substantially beyond customary limits of candor in description or
representation of such matters, and is material to the redeeming social
importance of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
      2.   "Material", as used in this section means any writing, picture,
record or other representation or embodiment.
      3.   "Distribute" means to transfer possession of, whether with or
without consideration.
      4.   "Knowingly", as used in this section means having knowledge of the
contents of the subject matter, or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable
inspection which would have disclosed the contents thereof.
   C.   Interpretation Of Evidence: The predominant appeal to prurient interest
of the material shall be judged with reference to average children of the same
general age of the child to whom such material was offered, distributed, sent
or exhibited, unless it appears from the nature of the matter or the
circumstances of its dissemination, distribution or exhibition that it is
designed for specially susceptible groups, in which case the predominant appeal
of the material shall be judged with reference to its intended or probable
recipient group. In prosecutions under this section, where circumstances of
production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution, or publicity
indicate the material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its
prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the
material and can justify the conclusion that the redeeming social importance of
the material is in fact substantially less than its prurient appeal.
   D.   Penalty: Distribution of harmful material in violation of this section
is punishable by fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and/or public or community service, not to exceed one hundred
twenty (120) hours.
   E.   Affirmative Defenses:
      1.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public library or any
library operated by an accredited institution of higher education from
circulating harmful material to any person under eighteen (18) years of age,
provided such circulation is in aid of a legitimate scientific or educational
purpose, and it shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution that the act
charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or educational purposes.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent from distributing
to his child any harmful material.
      3.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown and acted in reliance
upon any of the following documents as proof of the age of a child, shall be a
defense to any criminal prosecution under this section: A document issued by
the federal government or any state, county or municipal government or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the federal
selective service act or an identification card issued to a member of the armed
forces.
      4.   In the event an advertisement of harmful material as defined in this
section culminates in the sale or distribution of such harmful material to a
child, under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his employees or agents, as where the order or request
for such harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, or similar means
of communication, and delivery of such harmful material to the child was by
mail, freight, or similar means of transport, it shall be a defense in any
prosecution for a violation of this section that the advertisement contained
the following statement, or a statement substantially similar thereto, and that
the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he was not under eighteen
(18) years of age and that the purchaser falsely stated that he was not under
eighteen (18) years of age:
NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to purchase the
matter herein advertised. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely states
that he is not under 18 years of age for the purpose of obtaining the material
advertised herein, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor under the laws of the
State of Illinois.
   F.   Child Falsifying Age: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age who
falsely states, either orally or in writing that he is not under the age of
eighteen (18) years, or who presents or offers to any person any evidence of
age and identity which is false or not actually his own for the purpose of
ordering, obtaining, viewing, or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure
or view any harmful material is subject to fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) to
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community service, not to
exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours. (2004 Code)
6-1-15: THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Theft:
      1.   Acts: A person commits theft when he knowingly:
         a.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the
owner; or
         b.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
         c.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce
him to believe that the property was stolen, and
            (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or
benefit of the property; and
            (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
            (3)   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
      2.   Penalty: The theft of property, other than a firearm, not from the
person and not exceeding one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) in value is
punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and/or public or community service, not to exceed one hundred
twenty (120) hours and/or restitution to the victim for the cost of replacement
of the property stolen.
   B.   Lost Or Mislaid Property:
      1.   Acts: A person who obtains control over lost or mislaid property
commits theft when he:
         a.   Knows or learns the identity of the owner or knows or is aware
of, or learns of a reasonable method of identifying the owner, and
         b.   Fails to take reasonable measures to restore the property to the
owner, and
         c.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property.
      2.   Penalty: A person convicted of theft under this section is subject
to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or
public or community service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours and
restitution to the victim for the cost of replacement of the property.
   C.   Labor Or Services Or Use Of Property:
      1.   Acts: A person commits theft when he obtains the temporary use of
property, labor or services of another, which are available only for hire, by
means of threat or deception or knowing that such use is without the consent of
the person providing the property, labor or services.
      2.   Penalty: A person convicted of theft under this section is subject
to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or
public or community service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours and
restitution to the victim for the cost of the labor, service or use of the
property rendered. (2004 Code)
6-1-16: WEAPONS:
   A.   Defined: Unless authorized by law, no person shall sell, manufacture,
possess, wear under his clothing, or conceal about his person, or display in a
threatening like manner, any dangerous or deadly weapon, as defined in 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/33A-1, including, but not limited to, any pistol,
revolver, slingshot, knuckles, any bowie or similar knife, or any knife with a
switchblade or device whereby the blade or blades can be opened by a button,
pressure on the handle or other mechanical contrivance.
   B.   Discharge Of Firearms: No person shall discharge any firearms in the
village. In addition to those firearms defined by the state statutes, for
purposes of this section, firearms shall include pump air rifles, CO2 pellet
guns, paintball guns and any other device capable of discharging a projectile,
missile, arrow or similar style projectile.
   C.   Display And Sale Of Specified Weapons: No pawnbroker, secondhand dealer
or other person engaged in business in the village shall display or place on
exhibition in any show window or other window facing upon any street, any
pistol, revolver or other firearm or any brass or metal knuckles, or any club
loaded with lead or other weight, or any blackjack or billy club. Weapons
displayed for sale shall be incapable of firing. In nonbusiness hours said
weapons shall be stored in a secured and locked vault, safe or security box.
   D.   Possession Of Dangerous Or Deadly Weapons: No person shall have in
their possession, except within their own residence or transporting to and from
their own residence or a bona fide commercial archery range, or on a bona fide
commercial archery range, carry or use any bow made for the purpose of throwing
or projecting arrows or missiles by any means whatsoever. While being
transported, said bow shall be in an enclosed case or inoperable or
inaccessible. Toy bows and blunt tipped arrows intended for use by children are
not prohibited under this section.
   E.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall
be fined fifty dollars ($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or
public or community service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours and
be responsible for the village's cost of prosecution. Each day that a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Restitution by the violator
shall also be made to any property damaged or destroyed or person injured.
(2004 Code)
6-1-17: PUBLIC NUDITY:
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to protect and preserve the
health, safety, welfare and morals of the citizens of the village by
prohibiting a person from intentionally or recklessly appearing or being nude,
or causing another person to appear to be nude, in a public place and in other
places which may reasonably be expected to be observed by the public within the
village except as herein provided.
   B.   Definitions: When used in this section shall have the following
meanings:
   BREAST: A portion of the human female mammary gland (commonly referred to as
the female breast) including the nipple and areola (the darker colored area of
the breast surrounding the nipple) and an outside area of such gland wherein
such outside area is: 1) reasonably compact and contiguous to the areola and 2)
contains at least the nipple and the areola and one-fourth (1/4) of the outside
surface area of such gland.
   BUTTOCKS: The area at the rear of the human body (sometimes referred to as
the gluteus maximus) which lies between two (2) imaginary straight lines
running parallel to the ground when a person is standing, the first or top such
line being one-half inch (1/2") below the top of the vertical cleavage of the
nates (i.e., the prominence formed by the muscles running from the back of the
hip to the back of the leg) and the second or bottom such line being one-half
inch (1/2") above the lowest point of the curvature of the fleshy protuberance
(sometimes referred to as the gluteal fold), and between two (2) imaginary
straight lines, one on each side of the body (the "outside lines"), which
outside lines are perpendicular to the ground and to the horizontal lines
described above and which perpendicular outside lines pass through the
outermost point(s) at which each nate meets the outer side of each leg.
Notwithstanding the above, buttocks shall not include the leg, the hamstring
muscle below the gluteal fold, the tensor fasciae latae muscle or any of the
above described portion of the human body that is between either: 1) the left
outside perpendicular line and the left outside perpendicular line or 2) the
right inside perpendicular line and the right outside perpendicular line. For
the purpose of the previous sentence the left inside perpendicular line shall
be an imaginary straight line on the left side of the anus: a) that is
perpendicular to the ground and to the horizontal lines described above and b)
that is one-third (1/3) of the distance from the anus to the right outside
line. (The above description can generally be described as covering 1/3 of the
buttocks centered over the cleavage for the length of the cleavage.)
   ENTITY: Any proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, business
trust, joint venture, joint stock company or other for profit and/or not for
profit organization.
   NUDE: Any person insufficiently clothed in any manner so that any of the
following body parts are not entirely covered with a fully opaque covering:
      1.   The male or female genitals, or
      2.   The male or female pubic area, or
      3.   The female breast, or
      4.   The buttocks. Attire which is insufficient to comply with this
requirement includes, but is not limited to, G-strings, T-backs, and thongs.
Body paint, body dyes, tattoos, liquid latex whether wet or dried, and similar
substances shall not be considered opaque covering. Each female person may
determine which one-fourth (1/4) of her breast surface area (see definition of
Breast) contiguous to and containing the nipple and the areola is to be
covered.
   PERSON: Any live human being aged ten (10) years of age or older.
   PLACES PROVIDED OR SET APART FOR NUDITY: Enclosed single sex public
restrooms, enclosed single sex functional shower, locker and/or dressing room
facilities, enclosed motel rooms and hotel rooms designed and intended for
sleeping accommodations, doctor's offices, portions of hospitals, and similar
places in which nudity or exposure is necessarily and customarily expected
outside of the home and the sphere of privacy constitutionally protected
therein. This term shall not be deemed to include places where a person's
conduct of being nude is used for the promotion of business or is otherwise
commercially exploited.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any location frequented by the public, or where the public is
present or likely to be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected
to be observed by members of the public. Public places include, but are not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, parks, beaches, business and commercial
establishments (whether for profit or not for profit and whether open to the
public at large or where entrance is limited by cover charge or membership
requirement); bottle clubs; hotels; motels; restaurants; nightclubs; country
clubs; cabarets; meeting facilities utilized by any religious, social,
fraternal or similar organization. A premises, or portion thereof such as a
hotel room, used solely as a private residence, whether permanent or temporary
in nature, shall not be deemed to be a public place.
   C.   Legislative Findings: In addition and supplemental to the findings and
determinations contained in this section, which are incorporated by reference
into this subsection, it is hereby found by the village board, acting in its
legislative capacity for the purpose of regulating the conduct of appearing
nude in public places that the acts prohibited in subsection D of this section
encourage or create the potential for criminal activity, that actual and
simulated nudity and sexual conduct, begets and has the potential for begetting
undesirable and unlawful behavior; that sexual, lewd, lascivious and salacious
conduct among patrons and employees within establishments results in violation
of law and creates dangers to the health, safety, welfare and morals of the
public and those who engage in such conduct.
   D.   Nudity Prohibited In Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any person
to knowingly, intentionally or recklessly appear, or cause another person to
appear nude in a public place or in any other place which is readily visible to
the public, except as provided in subsection E of this section. It shall also
be unlawful for any person or entity maintaining, owning or operating any
public place establishment to encourage, suffer or allow any person to appear
nude in such public place, except as provided in subsection E of this section.
   E.   Exemptions: The prohibitions in subsection D of this section shall not
apply:
      1.   When a person appears nude in a place provided or set apart for
nudity provided: a) such person is nude for the sole purpose of performing the
legal function(s) that is customarily intended to be performed within such
place provided or set apart for nudity and b) such person is not nude for the
purpose of obtaining money or other financial gain for such person or for
another person or entity, or
      2.   When the conduct of being nude cannot legally be prohibited by this
section: a) because it constitutes a part of a bona fide live communication,
demonstration or performance by a person wherein such nudity is expressive
conduct incidental to and necessary for the conveyance or communication of a
genuine message or public expression and is not a mere guise or pretense
utilized to exploit the conduct of being nude for profit or commercial gain and
as such is protected by the United States or Illinois constitution or b)
because it is otherwise protected by the United States or Illinois
constitution.
      3.   A female breast feeding a baby in any location, public or private,
where the female is otherwise authorized to be, irrespective of whether the
nipple of the female's breast is uncovered during or incidental to the breast
feeding.
   F.   Enforcement And Penalties: Any person or entity violating any of the
provisions of this section shall be fined not less than three hundred dollars
($300.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per offense plus the
cost of prosecution incurred by the village including reasonable attorney fees.
Each incident or separate occurrence of an act that violates this section shall
be deemed a separate offense. Continual or repeated violations of this section
shall constitute a public nuisance and the village may initiate proceedings to
abate any such nuisance. (Ord. 98-25, 9-14-1998)
6-1-18: VIDEO GAMING:
   A.   Video Gaming Permitted: Pursuant to 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40,
video gaming act, video gaming is hereby permitted within the corporate
boundaries of the village of West Dundee, Illinois. The village of West Dundee
hereby adopts by reference the aforementioned compiled statute.
   B.   License Required: Any appropriately licensed liquor establishment
within the corporate limits of West Dundee who may qualify for video gaming as
defined under the act shall obtain a license to permit video gaming within at
its local address, which must be issued by the village.
   C.   Video Gaming Signage Provisions:
      1.   No reference to video gaming or video poker is permitted for any
permanent freestanding, surface mounted or window signage for any licensed
establishment.
      2.   Video gaming references are permitted for temporary window signage
at no more than nine (9) square feet per commercial frontage. All other
temporary sign provisions are restricted from including any references to
gaming, video gaming or video poker.
   D.   Number Of Video Gaming Terminals: No video gaming license issued shall
authorize the establishment or maintenance of more than five (5) video gaming
terminals per licensed establishment, as originally authorized by the Illinois
Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40, adopted effective July 13, 2009. (Ord. 2013-01,
2-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2013-20, 10-7-2013; Ord. 2020-05, 3-2-2020)
6-1-19: OPEN CONTAINER LAW:
   A.   Removal From Premises: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to
knowingly permit any person who is a patron of his establishment to remove any
alcoholic beverage from the licensed premises in an opened container, or any
other container.
   B.   Removal; Public Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person to
remove any opened container of alcoholic beverage or any other container into
which an alcoholic beverage has been placed, from the licensed premises where
it was purchased, or to be in possession of any opened container of alcoholic
liquor in any public place, street or premises not licensed for such purpose.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be fined fifty dollars
($50.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community
service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours and be responsible for
the village's cost of prosecution. Each day that a violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 2011-09, 7-11-2011)
6-1-20: TRUANCY:
   A.   Truancy Prohibited: It is unlawful for any child who is subject to
compulsory school attendance under Illinois state law, to be absent from
attendance at school without prior parental permission. Emergency or unforeseen
absences due to illness or other causes beyond the control of the person so
absent without parental permission shall not constitute truancy if permission
for such absence has been obtained from the parent or guardian and notification
of such permission is made to the proper school authority no later than the end
of the next full school day after the absence.
   B.   Responsibility: It is unlawful for any person having care or custody of
a child who is subject to compulsory school attendance as required by Illinois
state law to allow such child to be absent without valid cause from such
attendance for a school day or portion thereof.
   C.   Valid Cause: "Valid cause" for absence shall mean illness, observance
of a religious holiday, death in the immediate family, or family emergency and
shall include such other circumstances that cause reasonable concern to the
parent for the safety or health of the student.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be fined fifty dollars
($50.00) for the first offense and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for any
subsequent offenses. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-18-2013)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Curfew
6-2-3: Exceptions
6-2-4: Establishments
6-2-5: Enforcement
6-2-6: Parental Responsibility
6-2-7: Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are applicable to this chapter:
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances for the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN: A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: A person less than seventeen (17) years of age.
   OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT: A person who is: a) a natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent
or another person; or b) at least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by
a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   REMAIN: To linger or stay; or fail to leave premises when requested to do so
by a police officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the
premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 04-10, 6-21-
2004)
6-2-2: CURFEW:
Except as provided in section
6-2-3 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
seventeen (17) years to be upon any public way in the village or in
restaurants, drive-ins, taverns and other places of amusement, within the
village catering to the general public, or on any private property within the
village, without direct knowledge and approval of his parents or guardian,
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight Friday and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. Saturday, twelve (12:00) midnight Saturday and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
Sunday or between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. on any other day of the week. (Ord. 04-10, 6-21-2004)
6-2-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of the curfew:
   A.   At any time when accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person responsible for or having the legal care, custody and control of
the individual, or an authorized adult.
   B.   If participating in, going to or returning from, without any detour or
stop:
      1.   An "emergency" as defined herein;
      2.   Lawful employment;
      3.   Attending an official school, religious or other social or
recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a unit of
government, civic organization or other similar entity that takes
responsibility for the attendees;
      4.   An errand at the direction of a parent or guardian;
      5.   An activity involving the exercise of first amendment rights
protected by the United States constitution (or those similar rights protected
by the state of Illinois constitution), such as free exercise of religion,
freedom of speech and the right of assembly.
   C.   Is married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of mature minors act 1 , as amended.
   D.   If in a motor vehicle when the travel begins and ends outside the
corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 04-10, 6-21-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
6-2-4: ESTABLISHMENTS:
The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an offense if
he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours or fails to promptly notify the police
department that a minor is present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refuses to leave. (Ord. 04-10, 6-21-2004)
6-2-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police officer shall
ask the suspected offender's age and reason for being in the public place or on
the premises. The police officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this chapter unless the police officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no exception in this chapter applies. (Ord. 04-10, 6-21-2004)
6-2-6: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor who resides with such parent or legal guardian to fail to
pay for actual damages for the wilful or malicious acts of such minor which
cause injury to a person or to property.
   B.   A parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides with
such parent or legal guardian shall be liable for actual damages caused by said
minor and shall be presumed to have failed to exercise proper parental
responsibility and said minor shall be deemed to have acted with the knowledge
and permission of the parent or guardian in violation of this chapter whenever:
      1.   Said minor shall be adjudged to be in violation of any said
ordinance, law or statute prohibiting wilful and malicious acts, which cause
injury to a person or property.
      2.   Said parent or legal guardian shall have served upon them a notice
in writing that said minor has received a nonjudicial sanction from the police
department or other governmental agency as a result of an admission of guilt by
said minor of a violation of an ordinance, law or statute prohibiting wilful
and malicious acts which caused injury to a person or property and subsequent
to receipt of said notice said minor is adjudicated to be in violation of an
ordinance, law or statute or received a nonjudicial sanction from any
governmental agency as a result of an admission of guilt by said minor in
violation of an ordinance, law or statute.
   C.   Recovery of damages shall be pursuant and limited to an amount provided
by 740 Illinois Compiled Statutes 115/5, as amended.
   D.   This chapter shall not affect the recovery of damages in any other
cause of action where the liability of the parent or legal guardian is
predicated on a common law basis. (Ord. 04-10, 6-21-2004)
6-2-7: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00)
to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
04-10, 6-21-2004)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-3-1: Animals
6-3-1-1: Rabies Control, Dog Licensing And Stray Dog Control
6-3-1-2: Vicious And Dangerous Animals Regulations
6-3-1-2-1: Vicious Dogs
6-3-1-2-2: Dangerous Dogs
6-3-1-3: Prohibited Animals
6-3-1-4: Animal Care
6-3-1-5: Farm Animals
6-3-1-6: Honeybee Keeping
6-3-1-7: Nuisance Feeding Prohibited
6-3-1-8: Penalty
6-3-1: ANIMALS:
   A.   General Definitions:
                                        A department of the Village authorized
                                        to enforce compliance with all
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION DEPARTMENT: municipal ordinances pursuant to Title
                                        6, Chapter 3 of the West Dundee Village
                                        Code.
ANIMAL:                                 Any living vertebrate creature,
                                        domestic or wild, other than man.
ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN:                  Any member of the West Dundee police
                                        department.
CAT:                                    All members of the family Felidae.
                                        Any animal commonly considered to be,
COMPANION ANIMAL:                       or to be used as a pet. "Companion
                                        animal" includes, but is not limited
                                        to, canines, felines, and equines.
                                        Any individual dog when unmuzzled,
                                        unleashed, or unattended by its owner
                                        or custodian that behaves in a manner
DANGEROUS DOG:                          that a reasonable person would believe
                                        poses a serious and unjustified
                                        imminent threat of serious physical
                                        injury or death to a person or a
                                        companion animal in a public place.
DEPARTMENT:                             The West Dundee police department.
DOG:                                    All members of the family Canidae.
DOWNED ANIMAL:                          An animal incapable of walking without
                                        assistance.
                                        A fence or structure of at least six
                                        feet (6') in height, approved by the
                                        Village, forming or causing an
                                        enclosure suitable to prevent the entry
                                        of young children, and suitable to
                                        confine a vicious dog in conjunction
                                        with other measures that may be taken
                                        by the owner or keeper, such as
ENCLOSURE:                              tethering of the vicious dog within the
                                        enclosure. The enclosure shall be
                                        securely enclosed and locked and
                                        designed to prevent the animal from
                                        escaping from the enclosure. If the
                                        enclosure is a room within a residence,
                                        the door must be locked. A vicious dog
                                        may be allowed to move about freely
                                        within the entire residence if it is
                                        muzzled at all times.
                                        Any person (public or private)
                                        exhibiting any animals, which were
                                        purchased in commerce or the intended
                                        distribution of which affects the
                                        public, regardless of compensation.
                                        This term includes carnivals, circuses,
                                        animal acts, zoos, and educational
                                        exhibits, exhibiting such animals
                                        whether operated for profit or not.
EXHIBITOR:                              This term excludes retail pet stores,
                                        horse and dog races, organizations
                                        sponsoring and all persons
                                        participating in state and county
                                        fairs, livestock shows, rodeos, field
                                        trials, coursing events, purebred dog
                                        and cat shows and any other fairs or
                                        exhibitions intended to advance
                                        agricultural arts and science as may be
                                        determined by the department.
                                        A cat that:
                                        1. Is born in the wild or is the
                                        offspring of an owned or feral cat and
FERAL CAT:                              is not socialized, or
                                        2. Is a formerly owned cat that has
                                        been abandoned and is no longer
                                        socialized or lives on a farm.
                                        Has been seized with the teeth or jaws
                                        so that the person or animal seized has
HAS BEEN BITTEN:                        been nipped, gripped, wounded, or
                                        pierced, and further included contact
                                        of saliva with any break or abrasion of
                                        the skin.
                                        An attorney licensed to practice law in
                                        Illinois for a minimum of three (3)
HEARING OFFICER:                        years who presides over all hearings of
                                        the Administrative Adjudication
                                        Department to determine whether or not
                                        a violation of the Village Code exists.
HIVE:                                   A shelter constructed for housing a
                                        colony of honeybees; beehive.
                                        Any chartered, not for profit
                                        organization authorized to do business
HUMANE SOCIETY:                         in this state and organized for the
                                        purpose of preventing cruelty to
                                        animals and promoting humane care and
                                        treatment of animals.
IMPOUNDED:                              Taken into custody of the department.
                                        The injection of an anti rabies vaccine
                                        approved by the Illinois department of
INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES:             agriculture and administered by a
                                        licensed veterinarian in accordance
                                        with the manufacturer's recommendations
                                        for the vaccine used.
                                        A cord, rope, strap, or chain which
                                        shall be securely fastened to the
LEASH:                                  collar or harness of a dog or other
                                        animal and shall be of sufficient
                                        strength to keep such dog or animal
                                        under control.
                                        A veterinarian licensed by the state in
LICENSED VETERINARIAN:                  which he/she engages in the practice of
                                        veterinarian medicine.
                                        "Nucleus colony" means a small honeybee
NUC COLONY:                             colony created from a larger colony.
                                        Term also refers to the structure
                                        holding the colony, nuc box.
                                        Persons in possession of real property
                                        are entitled to the quiet enjoyment of
                                        their lands. If a neighbor interferes
NUISANCE:                               with that quiet enjoyment, either by
                                        creating smells, sounds, pollution or
                                        any other hazard that extends past the
                                        boundaries of the property it shall be
                                        deemed a nuisance.
                                        Any person having a right of property
                                        in an animal, or who keeps or harbors
                                        an animal, or who has in his care, or
                                        acts as its custodian, or who knowingly
OWNER:                                  permits a domestic, wild or exotic
                                        animal to remain on or about any
                                        premises occupied by that person.
                                        Owners must be eighteen (18) years of
                                        age or older.
                                        Any individual, firm, corporation,
                                        partnership, society, association or
                                        other legal entity, any public or
PERSON:                                 private institution, the state of
                                        Illinois, municipal corporation or
                                        political subdivision of the state, or
                                        any other business unit.
PHYSICAL INJURY:                        The impairment of physical condition,
                                        "Pound" or "Animal Control Facility"
                                        may be used interchangeably and mean
                                        any facility approved by the department
POUND:                                  for the purpose of enforcing this
                                        chapter and used as a shelter for
                                        seized, stray, homeless, abandoned, or
                                        unwanted dogs.
                                        A printed form prescribed by the Kane
REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE:               County animal control for the purpose
                                        of recording pertinent information as
                                        required by Kane County.
                                        Any school (except elementary or
                                        secondary school), institution,
                                        organization or person that uses or
                                        intends to use live animals in
                                        research, test, or experiments, and
RESEARCH FACILITY:                      that: (a) purchases or transports live
                                        animals in commerce or (b) receives
                                        funds under a grant, award, loan, or
                                        instrumentality of the United States
                                        for the purpose of carrying out
                                        research, test or experiments.
                                        All animals used to provide security
SECURITY ANIMALS:                       either on a contractual or permanent
                                        basis on or in any business
                                        establishment.
                                        A physical injury that creates a
                                        substantial risk of death or that
                                        causes death, serious protracted
SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY:                disfigurement, and protracted
                                        impairment of health, impairment of the
                                        function of any bodily organ or plastic
                                        surgery.
                                        A dog or other animal not on the
STRAY OR STRAYING ANIMAL:               property of the owner or not confined
                                        or under control by leash or other
                                        recognized control measures.
                                        A dog that, without justification,
                                        attacks a person and causes serious
VICIOUS DOG:                            physical injury or death or any
                                        individual dog that has been found to
                                        be a "dangerous dog" upon three (3)
                                        separate occasions.
                                        Any park, building, cages, enclosure,
                                        or other structure or premises in which
ZOO OR ZOOLOGICAL PARKS:                a live animal or animals are kept for
                                        public exhibition or viewing,
                                        regardless of compensation. (Ord. 2021-
                                        10, 4-19-2021)
 
6-3-1-1: RABIES CONTROL, DOG LICENSING AND STRAY DOG CONTROL:
   A.   Inoculation Against Rabies Required: Every owner of a dog or cat four
(4) months or more of age shall cause such dog or cat to be inoculated against
rabies by a licensed veterinarian. Every dog or cat shall have a second rabies
vaccination within one year of the first vaccination and every year thereafter.
However, if the vaccine used is one recognized by the Illinois department of
agriculture for a three (3) year period of immunity, and the dog or cat is over
twelve (12) months of age at the time of inoculation, the interval between
inoculations may be extended to three (3) years.
   B.   Dog License Required: It shall be unlawful for any dog to be or remain
in the village without being licensed and tagged as provided. All dogs must be
registered within thirty (30) days of the acquisition of the animal or within
thirty (30) days of residency within the village.
      1.   The license fee shall be as follows: Ten dollars ($10.00) for an
annual license or twenty dollars ($20.00) for a three (3) year license for each
dog over six (6) months old. Such fees shall be used to defray the cost of tags
and the animal shelter contractual agreement.
      2.   A three (3) year license will only be issued if the application for
said license is accompanied by a certificate of rabies inoculation provided by
a veterinarian which shows that the year of expiration of the rabies
inoculation will coincide with the expiration of the three (3) year license.
      3.   All security animals which are kept or maintained on any premises in
West Dundee for the purpose of providing watchdog or security purposes, and
which have been trained to watch or guard property, shall be licensed under a
special license classification with the village. Any owner of or person
desiring to have, keep, control, or harbor any security animal, including those
listed above, in said village, shall pay an annual license fee to the village
of ten dollars ($10.00) for each animal.
      4.   Every dog shall be provided by its owner or keeper with a collar to
which shall be secured, attached, or kept the license tag which shall be worn
by the dog at all times.
   C.   Dogs Running At Large; Public Nuisance; Impoundment: Any dog not under
the immediate control of its owner or the owner's agent, found straying or
running at large within the village shall be deemed and considered to be a
public nuisance. Any dog found running at large or straying may be apprehended
and impounded.
      1.   Invisible Or Electronic Fencing: Persons who utilize "invisible" or
"electronic" fencing to contain any animal must display prominently on their
property immediately adjacent to the public right of way a sign which indicates
that any animal located thereon is contained by way of "invisible fencing".
Invisible fencing installed after April 6, 2015, must have a containment area
of a minimum of four feet (4') from any public right of way and property lines.
In cases where a side yard is less than four feet (4'), then the invisible or
electronic fence shall be placed at the farthest point away from the structure
on the property.
      2.   Impoundment And Redemption Fees: The cost of impounding the dog and
all fines shall be paid before it shall be redeemed by the owner in the amount
set forth in Section
6-3-1-8. The owner of any unlicensed dog kept in the village, which has been
impounded, shall also be required to pay the annual license fee provided in
subsection B of this section before redemption. If a dog is not redeemed within
five (5) days after being impounded, such dog may be disposed of by the
authorization of the department.
   D.   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful:
      1.   For the owner or any person who has in his custody or control, any
dog, cat or other animal to enter upon the premises of another within the
village without the consent of the owner.
      2.   To permit any animal to damage or destroy any property.
      3.   To permit any dog to chase, run after or jump at motor or nonmotor
vehicles and pedestrians using the public thoroughfares.
      4.   To permit any dog to habitually snap, growl, snarl, jump upon or
otherwise threaten person lawfully using any common thoroughfare, sidewalk,
passageway, bike path, play area, park or any place where people congregate or
walk.
      5.   To allow any place where any animal is or may be kept to become
unclean or unsanitary or become offensive to those residing in the vicinity.
      6.   To keep on the premises more than three (3) dogs or three (3) cats
or any combination thereof over four (4) months of age.
      7.   To allow any female dog or cat to be outside of any building or
secure enclosure while it is in heat except for planned breeding.
      8.   Boarding for compensation within any residentially zoned properties
with the exception of regularly established and zoned veterinary hospitals, pet
shops, pounds and shelters.
      9.   To permit any dog, even though on a leash, to bite, jump upon or
otherwise cause injury to any person lawfully using any common thoroughfare,
sidewalk, passageway, bike path, play area, park, or any place where people
congregate or walk.
   E.   Dog Barking Or Other Animals Emitting Loud Noises: It shall be unlawful
for any owner or other person to allow their dog or other animal to bark, howl,
cry, whine, or otherwise emit loud noises day or night so as to disturb the
peace or quiet of any person, place or neighborhood or family in the village
while said dog or other animal is not within the confines of the owner’s
residence or other enclosed building upon the owner’s property. Any dog or
other animal emitting such noises shall be deemed and considered to be a public
nuisance. Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to abate such nuisance
after notice thereof, shall, for each twenty four (24) hours thereafter during
which said nuisance continues, be deemed to have committed a separate violation
of this chapter and be subject to like penalty as that originally incurred.
   F.   Dogs On Leash; Voice Or Sight Control:
      1.   No person shall cause or permit any dog owned or kept by him to be
at large at any place within the village, other than on the property of such
owner or keeper, unless such dog is securely fastened and restrained by a
leash. Any dog not upon the owner’s or keeper’s property which is not fastened
and restrained by a leash shall be deemed as being at large.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any dog, even though on a leash, to be or
enter upon any public hall, restaurant, confectionery shop, office, store,
grocery or any other store for the sale of food, except any store for the sale
of animal pets anywhere within the village during the time that any of said
places are open for use by the public.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any dog, even though on a leash, to go or
be upon any school premises within the playground equipment area or public
playground equipment area within the village.
      4.   No leash shall be longer than six feet (6') nor shorter than would
allow the freedom of movement for at least three feet (3'). Leashes of
extendable length must be restricted to no more than six feet (6') when used in
any public area of the village.
      5.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to assistance dogs.
(Ord. 2021-10, 4-19-2021; amd. Ord. 2021-20, 7-12-2021; Ord. 2022-23, 8-15-
2022)
6-3-1-2: VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS REGULATIONS:
6-3-1-2-1:   VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Investigation: In order for a dog or other animal to be deemed
"vicious", the Animal Control Warden must give notice of the infraction that is
the basis of the investigation to the owner, conduct a thorough investigation,
interview any witnesses, including the owner, gather any existing medical
records, veterinary medical records or behavioral evidence, and make a detailed
report recommending a finding that that dog or other animal is a vicious
animal. The Animal Control Warden may issue a citation to be heard by the
Administrative Adjudication Department or file a complaint in the circuit court
in the name of the people of the state of Illinois to deem a dog or other
animal to be a vicious animal. Testimony of a certified animal behaviorist may
be relevant to any determination of whether the dog or other animal's behavior
was justified. The Animal Control Warden must prove the animal is a vicious
animal by clear and convincing evidence. The Animal Control Warden shall
determine where the animal shall be confined during the pendency of the case.
   B.   Justification: A dog or other animal shall not be declared vicious if
the hearing officer or court determines the conduct of the dog or other animal
was justified because:
      1.   The threat, injury, or death was sustained by a person who at the
time was committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog
or other animal, or upon the property of the owner or custodian of the dog or
other animal;
      2.   The injured, threatened, or killed person was tormenting, abusing,
assaulting, or physically threatened the dog or other animal or its offspring;
or
      3.   The dog or other animal was responding to pain or injury, or was
protecting itself, its owner, custodian, or member of its household, kennel, or
offspring.
      No dog shall be deemed vicious if it is a professionally trained dog for
law enforcement or guard duties. Vicious dogs shall not be classified in a
manner that is specific as to breed.
      If the burden of proof has been met, the hearing officer or the court
shall deem the dog or other animal to be a vicious animal.
   C.   Requirements: If a dog or other animal is found to be a vicious animal,
the animal shall be spayed or neutered within ten (10) days of the finding at
the expense of the owner and microchipped, if not already, and is subject to
enclosure. A dog or other animal found to be a vicious animal shall not be
released to the owner until the department approves the enclosure. No owner or
keeper of a vicious animal shall sell or give away the vicious animal without
approval of the Animal Control Warden. Whenever an owner of a vicious animal
relocates, he or she shall notify the department. The only times that a vicious
animal is allowed out of the enclosure are: 1) if it is necessary for the owner
or keeper to obtain veterinary care for the dog, 2) in case of an emergency or
natural disaster where the animal's life is threatened, or 3) the animal is
securely muzzled and restrained with a leash not exceeding six feet (6') in
length, and under the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of
the animal or muzzled in its owner's residence.
   Any dog or other animal that has been found to be a vicious animal and is
not confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the department.
   If the owner of the vicious animal has not appealed the impoundment order
within fifteen (15) working days, the animal may be euthanized.
   Upon filing a notice of appeal, the order of euthanasia shall be
automatically stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. The owner shall bear
all costs associated with the impoundment and the burden of timely notification
to the department in writing.
   D.   Exemptions: Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs
for the physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police owned dogs are
exempt from this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs
while the dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under
this section, each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies and
registered with the department of its specific duties. It shall be the duty of
the owner of such exempted dog to notify the department of changes of address.
In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the department
advised of the location where such dog will be stationed. The department shall
provide Quad Com dispatch center with a categorized list of such exempted dogs,
and shall promptly notify such department of any address changes reported to
them. (Ord. 2021-10, 4- 19-2021)
6-3-1-2-2:   DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Investigation: In order for a dog or other animal to be deemed
"dangerous", the Animal Control Warden must perform a thorough investigation
which must include sending, within three (3) days of the department becoming
aware of the alleged infraction, notification to the owner of the animal
alleged to have committed the infraction, the fact of the initiation of an
investigation, and affording the owner an opportunity to meet with the Animal
Control Warden or his appointee prior to the making of a determination. The
Animal Control Warden or his appointee shall gather any medical or veterinary
evidence; interview witnesses; and make a detailed written report with the
findings. No dog or other animal shall be deemed a "dangerous dog" without
clear and convincing evidence. The owner of the dangerous animal shall be sent
immediate notification of the determination by registered or certified mail
that shall include a complete description of the appeal process. Testimony of a
certified animal behaviorist may be relevant to the determination of whether
the dog's or other animal's behavior was justified pursuant to the provisions
of this section.
   B.   Justification: No dog or other animal shall be declared dangerous if
the Animal Control Warden determines the conduct of the dog or other animal was
justified because:
      1.   The threat, injury, or death was sustained by a person who at the
time was committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog
or animal, or upon the property of the owner or custodian of the dog or other
animal;
      2.   The injured, threatened, or killed person was tormenting, abusing,
assaulting, or physically threatening the dog or other animal or its offspring;
or
      3.   The dog or other animal was responding to pain or injury, or was
protecting itself, its owner, custodian, or member of its household, kennel, or
offspring;
      4.   The injured, threatened or killed companion animal was attacking or
threatening to attack the dog or other animal or its offspring.
   C.   Requirements: If a dog or other animal is found to be a dangerous
animal, the animal shall be spayed or neutered within ten (10) days of the
finding at the expense of the owner and microchipped, if not already, and one
or more of the following as deemed appropriate by the investigating officer or
his appointee:
      1.   Evaluation of the dog or other animal by a board certified
veterinary behaviorist or other recognized expert in the field and completion
of training or other treatment as deemed appropriate by the expert. The owner
of the dog or other animal shall be responsible for all costs associated with
the evaluation and training ordered under this section.
      2.   Direct supervision and leash control by an adult eighteen (18) years
of age or older when the animal is on public or private property including the
property of the owner.
      3.   The dog or animal shall be muzzled when the animal is on public or
private property other than the property of the owner in a manner that will
prevent it from biting any person or other animal.
   D.   Exemptions: Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs
for the physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police owned dogs are
exempt from this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs
while the dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under
this section, each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies and
registered with the department of its specific duties. It shall be the duty of
the owner of such exempted dog to notify the department of changes of address.
In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep the department
advised of the location where such dog will be stationed. The department shall
provide Quad Com dispatch center with a categorized list of such exempted dogs,
and shall promptly notify such department of any address changes reported to
them.
   E.   Leash Required: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or
recklessly permit any dangerous dog or other animal to leave the premises of
its owner when not under the control by a leash.
   F.   Appeal: The owner of a dog or other animal found to be a dangerous
animal pursuant to this chapter by the Animal Control Warden may file a
complaint in the Administrative Adjudication Department or in the circuit court
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notification of the determination
before the hearing officer or the circuit court. After hearing both parties'
evidence, the hearing officer or the court may make a determination of a
dangerous animal if the investigating officer meets his burden of proof of
clear and convincing evidence. Until the order has been reviewed and at all
times during the appeal process, the owner shall comply with the requirements
set forth by the investigating officer or his appointee. (Ord. 2021-10, 4-19-
2021)
6-3-1-3: PROHIBITED ANIMALS:
Possession of a lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay, mountain
lion, lynx, bobcat, jaguarondi, any hybrid thereof, or any other similar feline
animal, bear, hyena, wolf, coyote, wolf-dog or coyote-dog hybrid, fox or any
member of the vulpes family, any member of the crocodilian family, poisonous
reptile, or any other life threatening reptile shall be prohibited to be kept
except at a properly maintained zoological park, circus, scientific or
educational institution, research laboratory or veterinary hospital in an
escape proof enclosure. All such persons or institutions shall possess state of
Illinois, United States department of agriculture permits enabling them to keep
such animals and must be inspected and approved by the department prior to
bringing such animals into West Dundee, whether on a permanent or temporary
basis.
Any person seeking to keep such animal in the Village must at a minimum
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the department the following:
   A.   That the enclosure in which the animal is confined is both escape proof
and adequate to prohibit members of the public from coming into contact with
the animal.
   B.   That there are adequate plans to recapture or euthanize any animal
which does escape and file a copy of said plan with the department.
   C.   That the person has the education, training, skills, and knowledge to
provide adequate care for the animal as well as the safety of the public.
   D.   Provide a certification from a veterinarian that the animal is not
diseased and otherwise in good health and have an attending veterinarian
available to provide care for the animals.
   E.   Provide permits of Illinois and United States Department of Agriculture
enabling the person or institution to keep such animal.
   F.   Provide proof of the public liability insurance in the minimum amount
of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). (Ord. 2021-10, 4-19-2021)
6-3-1-4: ANIMAL CARE:
   A.   Owner's Duties: Each owner shall provide for each of his animals:
      1.   Sufficient quantity of good quality, wholesome food and water;
      2.   Adequate shelter and protection from the weather;
      3.   Veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering; and
      4.   Humane care and treatment.
   B.   Cruel Treatment: No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat, torment,
starve, overwork or otherwise abuse any animal. No owner may abandon any animal
where it may become a public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure.
   C.   Aggravated Cruelty: No person may intentionally commit an act that
causes a companion animal to suffer serious injury or death. Aggravated cruelty
does not include euthanasia of a companion animal through recognized methods
approved by the department of agriculture.
   D.   Prohibited Acts: No person may sell, offer for sale, barter, or give
away as a pet or a novelty any rabbit or any baby chick, duckling or other fowl
which has been dyed, colored, or otherwise treated to impart an artificial
color thereto. Baby chicks, ducklings or reptiles shall not be sold, offered
for sale, bartered, or given away as pets or novelties. Rabbits, ducklings,
baby chicks or reptiles, shall not be awarded as prizes in any game of chance.
No person shall give away or use any live animal as a prize for or as an
inducement to enter any contest, game, or other competition or as an inducement
to enter a place or amusement or offer such animal as an incentive to enter a
business agreement whereby the offer was for the purpose of attracting trade.
No person shall be permitted to keep animals in violation of the "Illinois
humane care for animals act" or the "Illinois animal welfare act".
   E.   Animals For Use In Entertainment; Prohibited Acts:
      1.   No person may own, capture, breed, train, or lease any animal which
he or she knows or should know is intended for use in any show, exhibition,
program, or other activity featuring or otherwise involving a fight between
such animal and any other animal or human, or the intentional killing of any
animal for the purpose of sport, wagering, or entertainment.
      2.   No person shall promote, conduct, carry on, advertise, collect money
for or in any other manner assist or aid in the presentation for purposes of
sport, wagering, or entertainment, any show, exhibition, program, or other
activity involving a fight between two (2) or more animals or any animal and
human, or the intentional killing of any animal.
      3.   No person shall sell or offer for sale, ship, transport, or
otherwise move, or deliver or receive any animal which he or she knows or
should know has been captured, bred, or trained, or will be used, to fight
another animal or human or be intentionally killed, for the purpose of sport,
wagering, or entertainment.
      4.   No person shall manufacture for sale, shipment, transportation or
delivery any device or equipment which that person knows or should know is
intended for use in any show, exhibition, program, or other activity featuring
or otherwise involving a fight between two (2) or more animals, or any human
and animal, or the intentional killing of any animal for the purposes of sport,
wagering or entertainment.
      5.   No person shall own, possess, sell or offer for sale, ship,
transport, or otherwise move any equipment or device which such person knows or
should know is intended for use in connection with any show, exhibition,
program, or activity featuring or otherwise involving a fight between two (2)
or more animals, or any animal and human, or the intentional killing of any
animal for the purpose of sport, wagering or entertainment.
      6.   No person shall make available any site, structure, or facility,
whether enclosed or not, which he or she knows or should know is intended to be
used for the purpose of conducting any show, exhibition, program, or other
activity involving a fight between two (2) or more animals, or any animal and
human, or the intentional killing of any animal.
      7.   No person shall attend or otherwise patronize any show, exhibition,
program, or other activity featuring or otherwise involving a fight between two
(2) or more animals or any animal and human, or the intentional killing of any
animal for the purpose of sport, wagering or entertainment.
      8.   No person shall tie or attach or fasten any live animal to any
machine or device propelled by any power for the purpose of causing such animal
to be pursued by a dog or dogs. This subsection shall apply only when such dog
is intended to be used in a dog fight.
      9.   No person shall hold a greased pig contest.
   F.   Teasing, Striking Or Tampering With Police Dogs Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously taunt, torment, tease,
beat, strike, or administer or subject any desensitizing drugs, chemicals or
substance to any dog used by a law enforcement officer in the performance of
his functions or duties, or when placed in a kennel off duty; or to interfere
or meddle with any such dog used by a law enforcement department or agency or
any handler thereof in the performance of the functions or duties of said
department or agency.
   G.   Injury Or Killing Police Dogs Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to wilfully or maliciously torture, mutilate, injure, disable, poison or
kill any dog used by a law enforcement department or agency in the performance
of the functions or duties of such department or when placed in a kennel off
duty. However, a police officer or veterinarian may perform euthanasia in
emergency situations when delay would cause the dog undue suffering and pain.
   H.   Equidae; Acts Prohibited And Stable Care:
      1.   No person shall sell, offer to sell, lead, ride, transport, or drive
on any public way any equidae which, because of debility, disease, lameness or
any other cause, could not be worked in village without violating this chapter,
unless the equidae is being sold, transported, or housed with the intent that
it will be moved in an expeditious and humane manner to an approved
slaughtering establishment. Such equidae may be conveyed to a proper place for
medical or surgical treatment, for humane keeping or euthanasia, or for
slaughter in an approved slaughtering establishment.
      2.   Every person in possession or control of any stable or place open
for public use where animals are kept, shall maintain the stable or place at
all times in a clean, sanitary condition and conform to Illinois and West
Dundee fire prevention regulations.
   I.   Poisoning Dogs Or Other Domestic Animals Prohibited; Exception: No
person may knowingly poison or cause to be poisoned any dog or other domestic
animal. The only exception will be by written permit from the Animal Control
Warden for the purpose of controlling diseases transmissible to humans or other
animals and only when all other methods and means have been exhausted. Such a
written permit shall name the person or persons conducting the poisoning,
specify the products to be used, give the boundaries of the area involved, and
specify the precautionary measures to be employed to ensure the safety of
humans and other animals. Any drug used for euthanasia shall be by or under the
direction of a licensed veterinarian.
   J.   Transportation Of Animals: No owner, railroad or other common carrier
may, when transporting any animal, allow that animal to be confined in any type
of conveyance more than twenty four (24) consecutive hours without being
exercised as necessary for that particular type of animal and without being
properly rested, fed and watered; except that a reasonable extension of this
time limit shall be granted when a storm or accident causes a delay. In the
case of default of the owner or consignee, the company transporting the animal
shall exercise the animal, when necessary for the particular type of animal and
for the proper resting, feeding, watering and sheltering of such animal, and
shall have a lien upon the animal until all expenses resulting there have been
paid.
   K.   Confinement In Motor Vehicle And Animal Transport:
      1.   No owner or person shall confine any animal in a motor vehicle or
enclosed trailer in such a manner that places it in a life or health
threatening situation by exposure to a prolonged period of extreme heat (>86
degrees F) or cold (<20 degrees F), without proper ventilation or other
protection from such heat or cold. In order to protect the health and safety of
an animal, a community service officer or law enforcement officer who has
probable cause to believe that this section is being violated shall have
authority to enter such motor vehicle or trailer by any reasonable means under
the circumstances after making a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
person.
      2.   No person driving a motor vehicle shall transport any animal in the
back of the vehicle in a space intended for any load on the vehicle unless the
space is enclosed or has side and tail racks to a height of at least forty
eight inches (48") extending vertically from the floor, the vehicle has
installed means of preventing the animal from being discharged, or the animal
is cross tethered to the vehicle, or is protected by a secured container or
cage in a manner which will prevent the animal from being thrown, falling or
jumping from the vehicle.
   L.   Downed And Injured Animals:
      1.   No downed animal shall be sent to a stockyard, auction, or other
facility where its impaired mobility may result in suffering. An injured animal
may be sent directly to a slaughter facility.
      2.   A downed animal sent to a stockyard, auction, or other facility in
violation of this section shall be humanely euthanized, the disposition of such
animal shall be the responsibility of the owner, and the owner shall be liable
for any expense incurred. If an animal becomes downed in transit it shall be
the responsibility of the carrier.
      3.   A downed animal shall not be transported unless individually
segregated.
      4.   Any animal which is on any public way or public place and which
appears to be injured or severely diseased and for which care is not being
provided on the scene by the owner or any injured or severely diseased animal
that has strayed onto private property outside of a structure shall be removed,
if possible, by the Animal Control Warden and transported to the nearest
veterinarian or veterinary clinic willing to accept such animal. If immediate
removal shall not appear practical or possible or if the removed animal is in
critical condition, such animal shall be deprived of life by the most humane
method available on the scene unless the owner shall come forward beforehand
and assume responsibility for immediate removal and care.
      5.   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes an
animal shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible, or
shall immediately report such injury to the animal owner, if known, or to the
department.
   M.   Defecation Nuisance: No person shall allow cat or dog feces to
accumulate in any yard, pen, or premises in or upon which a cat or dog shall be
confined or kept so that it becomes offensive to those residing in the vicinity
or a health hazard to the residing cat or dog. No person shall fail to remove
feces deposited by his cat or dog, except guide dogs, upon the public ways or
within the public places of the village or upon the premises of any person
other than the owner without the person's consent.
   N.   Diseased Animals Prohibited: No person shall own any animal which is
known to be infected with any disease transmissible to other animals or man,
including severe parasitism, unless such animal shall be confined in such a
manner as not to expose other animals or man.
   O.   Dead Animals: Any person having a dead animal within his or her
possession or control or upon any premises owned or occupied by such person
without the proper permit shall dispose of the dead animal in compliance with
the Illinois dead animal disposal act. (Ord. 2021-10, 4-19-2021)
6-3-1-5: FARM ANIMALS:
   A.   Size, Type And License Fee: The owner of or person desiring to have,
keep, control, or harbor any farm animal, including specifically cattle,
horses, swine, sheep, goats, ducks, geese, chickens, other poultry, and such
other farm and domestic animals that may be included therein, in said village,
shall pay an annual license fee to the village:
      1.   For cattle, horses, swine, sheep, goats, and fowl weighing fifteen
(15) pounds or more the annual license fee shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each animal. These animals are only allowed on properties that are
five (5) acres in size or more and are prohibited in the R-5 medium density
multiple-family district.
      2.   For chickens and other similarly sized poultry less than fifteen
(15) pounds in weight the maximum total number of animals permitted are four
(4) per zoning lot. The annual license fee shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) for up to four (4) animals. Chickens and similarly sized poultry are
prohibited in R-5 medium density multiple-family districts. Roosters are
prohibited in all districts.
      3.   For honeybees, the annual license shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for
up to four (4) hives.
   B.   License Policy Guidelines: The following policy guidelines will be used
in reviewing the issuance of a license for these types of animals:
      1.   The type and number of animals to be maintained on the premises
shall be in keeping with the residential character of the village.
      2.   The housing or maintenance of any of these types of animals shall be
done in such a manner as to minimize the visual and noise impact upon the
neighboring properties or residences.
      3.   Concerns from adjacent property owners shall be given due
consideration during the license issuance process.
      4.   No license shall be issued if:
         a.   The issuance of a license will be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, morals, comfort or general welfare of the community or
neighboring residents.
         b.   The issuance of a license will be injurious to the enjoyment of
property or property owners in the immediate vicinity.
      5.   The validity of all such animal licenses shall be contingent upon
the continued adherence to the licensing policy guidelines and the abatement of
all nuisances associated with these animals as specified herein. If it is
determined that the premises or the animal(s) are not kept or maintained in a
manner consistent with these policy guidelines, the license will be immediately
revoked without reimbursement of the annual fees paid.
   C.   General Requirements:
      1.   Running At Large Unlawful: It shall be unlawful to permit any farm
animals including specifically cattle, horses, swine, sheep, goats, ducks,
geese, chickens, other poultry, and such other farm and domestic animals that
may be included therein, to run at large in the village, or to be maintained on
any premises without a license from the village permitting the keeping of said
animal.
      2.   Keeping Of Food: Food for any licensed farm animal must be
maintained in rodentproof containers.
      3.   Coop And Coop Enclosure Size Requirements: Coop and coop enclosures
must be sized properly for the number of chickens maintained. Coop and coop
enclosure areas must be a minimum of forty (40) square feet but shall not
exceed a maximum of one hundred (100) square feet.
      4.   Coop Location Requirement: Coops must be set back a minimum of ten
feet (10') from the property line with a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from the
nearest adjacent neighboring habitable building.
      5.   Chickens On Premises: All licensed chickens must be maintained in
the coop or coop enclosures from sundown to sunup. During daytime hours animals
may roam in fenced yard with owner supervision.
      6.   Disposal Of Waste: All waste must be disposed of in a sanitary
manner.
   D.   Nuisances: Shall include the creation of noxious or offensive odors,
damaging property other than that of the owner, and emitting loud noises
excessively for an extended and uninterrupted period. (Ord. 2021-10, 4-19-2021)
6-3-1-6: HONEYBEE KEEPING:
Anyone wishing to maintain honeybees must obtain a license from the village and
register hives with the Illinois department of agriculture. West Dundee license
holders are subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Property owners are permitted to maintain up to four (4) hives or
colonies of honeybees on premises. If the property is less than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet hives shall be limited to two (2) primary and two (2) nuc
colonies.
   B.   Hives shall be located on the rooftop of the principal structure, on
the rooftop or deck area of an accessory structure of adequate size, or in the
unimproved area of the rear yard of the property. No hives are permitted on any
part of the front yard or side yard including corners.
   C.   All hives shall be set back ten feet (10') from the property line.
   D.   For hives within twenty feet (20') of a property line, a flyaway
barrier or screen must be provided. A flyaway barrier can be a fence or
landscaping that is a minimum of five feet (5') in height. The flyaway barrier
can be close to the hive or at the lot line. All fencing must be installed in
conformance with regulations of section
9-1A-7 of this code.
   E.   Owners are required to maintain a convenient and adequate source of on
site fresh water to prevent the bees from straying from the property in search
of water.
   F.   A small sign to announce "Bees On Premises" shall be posted at walkway
or gate area entrances to the rear yard of the premises to warn visitors to the
property of the presence of bees on site. This sign shall not exceed two (2)
square feet. Signs are not required for rooftop hives.
   G.   Anyone seeking the issuance of a honeybee keeping license from the
village of West Dundee will first provide courtesy notification of his or her
plan to keep honeybees to any property owner with land abutting the rear yard
area. The beekeeper should be prepared to provide information and resources to
help educate their neighbors and alleviate fears. (Ord. 2021-10, 4-19-2021)
6-3-1-7: NUISANCE FEEDING PROHIBITED:
The feeding of any cat, or other wildlife except birds, including hand feeding
or the placing out of food to be left attended or unattended, which created or
has the potential to create a hazard to public health or safety is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and to be unlawful. If feeding birds, feeders
must be located at least five feet (5') off of the ground. Feed shall be a
blend designed to be used for birds. At no time shall any residence have more
than five (5) bird feeders. No bird feeders may be located on public property.
Bird feeders should be designed or utilize sufficient protections to discourage
nonbird species from accessing the feed. (Ord. 2021-10, 4-19-2021)
6-3-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined no less seventy five dollars ($75.00) or such sum as determined by the
Hearing Officer or the court but not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for each petty offense and such amount for misdemeanors as set forth in Section
1-4-1 of this Code and all of the Village's cost of prosecution including
reasonable attorney fees. The cost for impoundment of any animal in addition to
the fine assessed shall be not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord.
2021-10, 4-19-2021)
CHAPTER 4
PARADES AND PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Public Conduct/Parking Restrictions
6-4-4: Permits
6-4-5: Standards For Issuance
6-4-6: Approval Or Denial
6-4-7: Alternate Permit; Distribution And Contents Of Permit
6-4-8: Conditions Of Permit
6-4-9: Revocation
6-4-10: Violation; Penalty
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is declared to be the public policy of this village:
That the maintenance of good order on highways, as defined in 605 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/2-202 of the "Illinois highway code" is a paramount
responsibility of democratic government:
That the public health, welfare and safety of the community require that the
movement of vehicular traffic on such roadways be lawfully conducted with a
minimum of disruption;
That the practice of unhindered or unrestrained picketing or demonstrating on
such roadways has caused disruption of police, fire and emergency services, and
injury to persons regardless of participation in the march, assembly or
demonstration;
That the practice of multiple demonstrations on the same day in different
locations in municipalities and unincorporated areas of counties has
unreasonably deprived the citizens of the police, fire and emergency services;
and
That the provisions herein enacted are necessary for the protection of the
health, welfare and safety of the public. (2004 Code)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   PARADE: Any march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or procession of any
kind, or similar display, in or upon any street or other public property in the
village.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY: Any congregation or gathering of persons held outdoors and
upon any public property for the purpose of hearing or observing individuals or
demonstrating views on a topic, either verbally or nonverbally. "Private
functions", defined as those by invitation only, shall be prohibited on village
property. Public assemblies shall be prohibited in public buildings or on
village property where they will substantially interfere with the normal course
of business. (2004 Code)
6-4-3: PUBLIC CONDUCT/PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Interference With Parade Or Assembly: No person shall unreasonably
hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade, public assembly or
similar activity, or with any person, vehicle or animal participating or used
in such activity.
   B.   Driving Through Parade Or Assembly: No driver of any vehicle shall
drive between the vehicles or persons composing a parade, public assembly, or
similar activity when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade, public assembly or similar activity. Fire
and police vehicles and ambulances may interrupt a parade, public assembly, or
similar activity in an emergency situation.
   C.   Parking On Route: The chief of police or public works director shall
have the authority to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a
highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade, public
assembly, or similar activity. The chief of police or public works director
shall order the posting of signs or barricades to such effect, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation
thereof. No person shall be liable for parking on a street not posted in
violation of this chapter. (2004 Code)
6-4-4: PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: No parade, public assembly or similar activity is
permitted on any street or area of the village unless a permit allowing such
activity has been obtained from the village manager. This chapter shall not
apply to students going to and from school classes, or participating in
educational activities under the immediate direction and supervision of school
authorities or governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions,
nor shall a permit be required for normal or scheduled activities of the
village.
   B.   Application Processing:
      1.   Any person, partnership, voluntary association, corporation or other
organization seeking to obtain a parade or public assembly permit shall file an
application with the village manager or designee not more than ninety (90) days
and not less than twenty one (21) days before the date for which the parade,
public assembly or similar activity is proposed. Applications for permits shall
be made to the village manager or designee on forms prescribed and furnished by
the village manager or designee. The village manager or designee may request
additional information from the applicant. An application will not be
considered filed until all required information is submitted as set forth in
this chapter, including the public assembly and parade application. The village
manager is authorized to establish rules, regulations and procedures for the
processing of parade and public assembly permit applications.
      2.   In order for any application to be reviewed by the village manager,
it must contain any and all information and requested materials listed in
subsection C of this section.
   C.   Contents Of Application: Any application for a parade or public
assembly permit filed with the village manager shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The application shall contain the name, address and phone number of
the person signing the application.
      2.   If the parade, public assembly, or similar activity is proposed to
be conducted for, on behalf of or by an organization, the application shall
contain the name, address and phone number of the authorized and responsible
leaders of the organization conducting the parade or public assembly, and the
name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the organization and
the names, addresses and telephone numbers of any state, regional, and national
organizations with which the applicant organization is affiliated.
      3.   The application shall contain the date of the proposed parade or
public assembly and the hours that it will commence and terminate.
      4.   The application shall contain the location of the assembly area and
the time when the participants will begin to assemble.
      5.   The application shall contain the route to be traveled, the starting
point and the termination point.
      6.   The application shall contain the approximate number of persons,
animals and vehicles to participate in the parade, public assembly, or similar
activity.
      7.   The application shall contain a statement as to whether the parade
or public assembly will occupy all or only a portion of the width of the
streets proposed to be traversed.
      8.   The application shall contain the interval of space to be maintained
between units of such parade, public assembly or similar activity.
      9.   If the parade, public assembly or similar activity is designed to be
held by and on behalf of or for any person, partnership, voluntary association,
corporation or other organization other than the applicant, the applicant for
such permit shall file with the village a communication in writing from such
person or from an authorized and responsible leader of such organization
authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on behalf of such person or
organization.
      10.   The application shall contain any additional information which the
village manager or village president and board of trustees shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be
issued.
   D.   Late Applications: The village manager or village president and board
of trustees, when good and compelling cause is shown, may consider an
application under this chapter which is filed less than twenty one (21) days
before the date the parade, public assembly or similar activity is proposed to
be conducted. (2004 Code)
6-4-5: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE:
   A.   Generally: The village manager or village president and board of
trustees shall issue a permit as provided for under this chapter when, from a
review of the application and other information as may otherwise be obtained,
it is found that:
      1.   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interfere with the
safe and orderly movement of traffic in the area contiguous to the route.
      2.   The activity will not present an unreasonable danger to the health
or safety of the applicant, village employees, or members of the public, which
is to be determined upon the basis of past events that have occurred within the
corporate limits of the village or any other village where similar activities
have taken place.
      3.   There are available at the time of the parade, public assembly, or
similar activity a sufficient number of peace officers to police and protect
lawful participants in the activity and maintain adequate police protection in
the rest of the village.
      4.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at the assembly
points of the parade, public assembly, or similar activity will not unduly
interfere with the proper fire and police protection of or ambulance service to
areas contiguous to such assembly areas.
      5.   The activity will not interfere with scheduled village functions or
the normal pursuit of activities of the residents of the village.
      6.   The conduct of such parade, public assembly, or similar activity
will not interfere with the movement of emergency equipment en route to an
emergency.
      7.   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
      8.   The parade, public assembly, or similar activity is not being
conducted for an unlawful purpose or for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit.
   B.   Insurance: Before the issuance of a permit, the village manager shall
require the organization to furnish evidence of insurance naming the village as
an additional insured in such form as may be determined by the village manager
or designee to provide for the payment of any claims for personal injuries
(including death and any injuries to village employees, agents, or
contractors), property damage or other suits arising out of or connected with
such public assemblies or parades. If an organization's most reasonable efforts
are unsuccessful, the required insurance can be waived by the village manager
subject to the conditions stated in this section. In such a situation, the
organization must provide written proof of their inability to obtain insurance.
If prior events of the applicant in the village have resulted in damage or
injury for which the applicant did not have insurance or did not compensate the
damaged or injured parties, the village manager shall require either: 1) the
insurance policy as stated in this section or 2) a cash security deposit in an
amount based upon damage incurred in any prior event of the applicant in the
village, as determined by the village manager. Any funds not expended shall be
returned to the applicant within thirty (30) days after the determination of
the damage or injury.
   C.   Hold Harmless Agreement: A hold harmless agreement shall be signed with
the village holding the village harmless from any and all claims that may arise
from the use of designated public property, right of way, or equipment or any
injury to a village employee, agent, or contractor in conjunction with the
permitted use.
   D.   Agreement For Payment Of Costs: Prior to the issuance of any permit,
all parade or public assembly applicants must pay for the estimated cost of
cleanup and restoration of the area of the event and traffic control costs of
any police department, fire department or other village personnel utilized in
conjunction with the function at a reasonable rate to be determined by the
village manager or designee. Such estimated costs shall be specifically set out
in writing to the applicant prior to the issuance of the permit, showing the
basis of the estimated costs. These estimated costs shall not include any use
of village personnel to protect the public safety in any emergency situation in
conjunction with the event. In the event that the estimated costs paid are in
excess of the actual costs, the overage shall be refunded to the applicant
within thirty (30) days after such a determination has been made. In addition,
applicants must agree to and must pay for any damage created as a result of the
public assembly or parade.
   E.   Multiple Applications For Same Time And Place: If the village manager
receives more than one application for a parade or public assembly to be held
at the same time and at the same place, the applications filed first in time
shall take precedence. An event shall be considered to be "at the same time" if
the event is scheduled to commence within two (2) hours before or after the
holding of another event. If the village manager receives an application for
more than one parade or public assembly in a single day, the manager may set a
time for the duration of each parade or public assembly, which shall not,
without the consent of the group seeking the permit, be less than three (3)
hours. (2004 Code)
6-4-6: APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
Following the receipt of an application or reapplication under this chapter,
the village manager shall, within ten (10) working days, either issue such
permit or deny the permit. If the manager denies the application or
reapplication, upon appeal of the applicant, the matter shall be referred to
the village president and board of trustees at a meeting scheduled not more
than thirty (30) days after the denial of the permit application or at any
special meeting of the village president and board of trustees called for such
purpose not more than twenty four (24) days after the filing of the permit
application. If the village president and board of trustees concur in the
village manager's denial, the reasons therefor shall be stated and published in
the minutes. Within seven (7) days after the denial of the permit by the
village president and board of trustees, the village manager shall mail the
applicant notice of the denial of the permit and the reason for the denial. The
action of the village president and board of trustees shall be subject to
judicial review. (2004 Code)
6-4-7: ALTERNATE PERMIT; DISTRIBUTION AND CONTENTS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Alternate Permit: The village manager or village president and board of
trustees, in denying a permit application pursuant to section
6-4-6 of this chapter, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of a parade,
public assembly or similar activity on a date, at a time, at a location or over
a route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall, within two (2) days after notice of the
action by the village manager and village president and board of trustees, file
a written notice of acceptance with the village manager. An alternate permit
shall conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade or
public assembly permit.
   B.   Distribution Of Copies Of Permit To Village Officials: Immediately upon
the issuance of a parade or public assembly permit, the village manager shall
send a copy of the permit to the police chief, the fire chief and the board of
trustees.
   C.   Contents Of Permit: Each parade or public assembly permit shall state
the following information:
      1.   Starting time.
      2.   Minimum speed.
      3.   Maximum speed.
      4.   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade or public assembly.
      5.   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade or public assembly.
      6.   The maximum length of the parade or public assembly in miles or
fractions thereof.
      7.   Such other information as the village manager and village president
and board of trustees shall find necessary to ensure the enforcement of this
chapter. (2004 Code)
6-4-8: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Time Of Parade Or Assembly: No parade, public assembly or similar
activity is permitted on any street or area of the village during peak traffic
periods, unless authorized by the chief of police. Peak traffic periods, unless
otherwise set by the village board, are for the purposes of this section
declared to be from seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M., and from four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
Monday through Friday, except for state and national holidays.
   B.   Duties Of Permittee: A permittee under this chapter shall comply with
all permit directions and conditions and with all applicable statutes, code,
ordinances and rules and regulations. One of the authorized and responsible
leaders of the organization conducting the parade, public assembly, or similar
activity shall carry the parade or public assembly permit upon their person
during the conduct of the parade or public assembly. (2004 Code)
6-4-9: REVOCATION:
The village manager or village president and board of trustees shall have the
authority to revoke a parade or public assembly permit issued under this
chapter if, at any time, facts are brought to the attention of the village
manager or village president and board of trustees which show that the parade,
public assembly, or similar activity does not, or will not, comply with the
standards for issuance as set forth in this chapter. (2004 Code)
6-4-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter is punishable by fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or public or community
service, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours. Restitution to the
village will also be made by the violator, for costs of any service, equipment,
damage to village supported property, claims for personal injuries to any
village employees, agents or contractors and personnel wages associated with
the parade or public assembly incurred by the violation. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
6-5-0: Definitions
6-5-1: Prohibitions Generally
6-5-2: Horns And Whistles
6-5-3: Audio, Musical, And Similar Equipment
6-5-4: Engine Exhaust
6-5-4-1: Compression Release Engine Brakes
6-5-5: Defect In Vehicle Or Load
6-5-6: Refuse Collection
6-5-7: Construction Activities
6-5-8: Lawn, Garden, And Landscape Maintenance Activities
6-5-9: Exemptions
6-5-10: Application For Special Permit
6-5-11: Violation; Penalty
6-5-0: DEFINITIONS:
Except as hereinafter stated and unless a different meaning of a term is clear
from its context, the definition of terms used in this chapter shall be the
same as used in the Illinois Environmental Protection Act at 415 ILCS 5/1 et
seq., as amended, and the Ill. Admin. Code title 35: environmental protection,
subtitle H: noise, chapter I: pollution control board, part 900 et seq., as
amended.
ANSI STANDARDS: The procedures for the measurement of sound that conform with
the standards and recommended practices established by the American National
Standards Institute.
DAYTIME HOURS: Seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o’clock (10:00) P.M., local
time.
IMPULSIVE SOUND: Either a single pressure peak or a single burst (multiple
pressure peaks) for a duration usually less than one second.
NIGHTTIME HOURS: Ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. to seven o’clock (7:00) A.M., local
time.
SOUND LEVEL: Expressed in decibels, a weighted sound pressure level, determined
by the use of metering characteristics and frequency weightings specified in
American National Standards Institute standard section 1.4-1971 (specification
for sound level meters). All references to decibels in this chapter utilize the
A-level weighting scale, abbreviated dBA, measured as set forth in this
section. Decibels shall be measured with a Type II general purpose sound level
meter. Impulsive sound shall be measured using a fast sound level meter
response. Sounds other than impulsive sound shall be measured using a slow
sound level meter response.
TYPE II GENERAL PURPOSE SOUND LEVEL METER: A device for measuring sound level
in dBA units within the performance specifications as provided by the American
National Standards Institute.
VILLAGE PROPERTY: Any street, alley, sidewalk, park, parkway, or mall, owned,
controlled, or managed by the Village and on which a special event has been
authorized and permitted.
(Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-1: PROHIBITIONS GENERALLY:
   A.   Residential Property: It is unlawful to make or cause to have made any
noise or sounds of such volume or of such nature as to cause annoyance to the
residents of the village.
   B.   Disturb Peace And Quiet: It is unlawful to disturb the peace or quiet
by the creating of excessive and unnecessary noise.
(Ord. 99-26, 11-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-2: HORNS AND WHISTLES:
It is unlawful to blow or cause to be sounded any horn, whistle, or other
signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound in the village except
as a signal for starting or stopping work or in emergencies as to avoid or to
prevent injury to persons or property.
(Ord. 99-26, 11-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-3: AUDIO, MUSICAL, AND SIMILAR EQUIPMENT:
   A.   It is unlawful to play, use, operate, or permit to be played or
operated, in any building or on any public or private premises any radio,
phonograph, microphone, musical instrument, television, loudspeaker, sound
amplifier, or similar equipment in such a manner as to disturb the peace,
quiet, comfort of neighboring residents except in conjunction with a village
permitted special event or block party.
   B.   The operation of any radio, phonograph, microphone, musical instrument,
television, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or similar equipment during nighttime
hours, that causes or allows the emission of a sound level that exceeds fifty
(50) dBA, measured at a distance of no less than fifty feet (50') from the
property line where such set, instrument, or device, is operating, shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   C.   The operation of any radio, phonograph, microphone, musical instrument,
television, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or similar equipment during daytime
hours, that causes or allows the emission of a sound level that exceeds seventy
(70) dBA, at a distance of no less than one hundred feet (100') from the
property line where such set, instrument, or device, is operating, shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   D.   No person shall cause or permit to be emanated or emitted from any such
device any lewd, obscene, profane, or indecent language or sounds, or any false
representation of any matter, product or project advertised thereby, the sale
of which is prohibited by law, ordinance, or statute.
   E.   It is prohibited to play, use, operate or permit to be played, used, or
operated any radio, television, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker,
sound amplifier, or similar equipment for producing sound which is audible upon
the public streets of the village for the purpose of commercial advertising or
of attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure except
when a permit has been first procured from the village manager as required by
this code.
   F.   The volume of any noise or sound, which is impossible or impractical to
measure by a sound meter, as provided herein, or which has terminated prior to
the arrival of personnel with a sound meter device may be established by the
testimony of occurrence witnesses that the emission of sound level from the
radio, phonograph, microphone, musical instrument, television, loudspeaker,
sound amplifier, or similar equipment which is the source of the noise was
plainly audible at a distance of no less than fifty (50) feet during nighttime
hours and no less than one hundred (100) feet during daytime hours from the
property line and source thereof.
(Ord. 99-26, 11-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-4: ENGINE EXHAUST:
   A.   It is unlawful to cause or allow the emission of a sound level, from
the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine,
motorboat, or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device, that
exceeds eighty (80) dBA when measured at any point from within the Village;
provided, however, that no measurement of sound level shall be made less than
fifty (50) feet from the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal
combustion engine, motorboat, or motor vehicle except through a muffler or
other device.
   B.   The volume of any noise or sound, which is impossible or impractical to
measure by a sound meter, as provided herein, or which has terminated prior to
the arrival of personnel with a sound meter device may be established by the
testimony of occurrence witnesses that the emission of sound level from the
exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat,
or motor vehicle which is the source of the noise was plainly audible at a
distance of no less than fifty (50) feet from the location and source thereof.
(Ord. 99-26, 11-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-4-1: COMPRESSION RELEASE ENGINE BRAKES:
No person shall operate, or cause to be used or operated, within the village
any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of
any vehicle by converting engine power to compressed air. It shall be an
affirmative defense that the person was operating or causing to be used or
operated, such mechanical exhaust device in circumstances where it was
necessary to avoid injury or an accident. The village shall provide notice of
the prohibition created by this section by posting clearly visible signs on all
truck routes at or near the entrances of the village, with the approval of the
Illinois department of transportation (IDOT) and the Illinois state tollway
authority on those routes over which said department has jurisdiction.
   A.   “Compression release engine brakes” means the use of the engine to
retard the forward motion of a motor vehicle by compression of the engine.
“Compression release engine brakes” are also referred to as “compression
brakes” and/or “exhaust brakes” and/or “jake brakes”.
   B.   This section shall not apply to vehicles of any municipal fire
department, whether or not responding to an emergency.
(Ord. 06-63, 12-18-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-5: DEFECT IN VEHICLE OR LOAD:
It shall be unlawful to use any automobile, motorcycle, vehicle, wagon, or cart
so defective or loaded in such a manner as to create loud or unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling, or other noises.
(Ord. 99-26, 11-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-6: REFUSE COLLECTION:
It shall be unlawful for any refuse collector or firm to collect, gather, load,
remove, empty, haul or otherwise transport any refuse, recycling or other waste
materials from any container, dumpster or other storage unit within the village
except between the hours of six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00)
P.M. on any day.
(Ord. 99-26, 11-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-7: CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
Any activity in the construction of any building or structure (including
excavation, demolition, alteration, or repair), or the laying of pavement,
including, but not limited to, the making of an excavation, clearing of surface
land, and loading or unloading materials, equipment, or supplies, anywhere in
the village shall be permitted only between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00)
A.M. and eight thirty o’clock (8:30) P.M. Monday through Saturday; eight thirty
o’clock (8:30) A.M. to eight thirty o’clock (8:30) P.M. on Sunday.
(Ord. 99-26, 11-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-8: LAWN, GARDEN, AND LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES:
Any lawn, garden, or landscape maintenance activities involving the operations
of any gasoline or electric powered equipment including, without limitation,
mowers, tractors, trimmers, vacuums, blowers, tillers, hedge clippers,
grinders, shredders, chain saws, or sod cutter, or other equipment the use of
which is within fifty feet (50') from the boundaries of the premises upon which
such equipment is operated or used, shall be permitted only between the hours
of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and eight thirty o’clock (8:30) P.M. Monday
through Saturday; eight thirty o’clock (8:30) A.M. to eight thirty o’clock (8:
30) P.M. on Sunday.
(Ord. 99-26, 11-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-9: EXEMPTIONS:
The following exemptions shall be provided from the terms and restrictions
provided in this section:
   A.   Street sweeping operations on public rights of way, public parking
lots, or private parking lots in nonresidential zoning districts.
   B.   Construction and lawn maintenance operations performed by or on behalf
of the village or Dundee township park district on publicly owned property.
   C.   Construction and/or lawn maintenance activities required as a result of
a storm or emergency situation to provide for the protection, safety and
welfare of the village.
   D.   Work related to sewer, water, power or utility interruptions.
   E.   Snow removal operations on any public or private property, parking lot,
or right of way.
   F.   Government owned property activities, police, fire and public works
activities.
   G.   Clock towers, church bells, school bells, school announcements,
government sponsored events.
(Ord. 99-26, 11-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-10: APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL PERMIT:
   A.   Applications for a special permit for relief from the noise
restrictions designated in this chapter on the basis of undue hardship may be
made to the village manager. Any permit granted hereunder shall contain all
conditions upon which said permit has been granted and shall specify a
reasonable time that the permit shall be effective.
   B.   Permit issuance shall be provided if the following conditions are
found:
      1.   That the additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or
modify his activity or operation to comply with this chapter; or
      2.   The activity, operation, or noise source will be of temporary
duration and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with other
subsections of this chapter; or
      3.   That no other reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
   C.   The village manager may prescribe any conditions or requirements he
deems necessary to minimize the adverse effects upon the community or the
surrounding community or the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 99-26, 11-15-1999; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
6-5-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 99-26, 11-15-1999; amd. 2004 Code; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 11-6-2023)
CHAPTER 6
FIREARMS DEALERS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Prohibitions
6-6-3: Inspection
6-6-4: Penalties
6-6-5: Severability
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter, whether capitalized or not, are defined as follows:
   AMMUNITION: Any self-contained cartridge or shotgun shell, by whatever name
known, which is designed to be used or adaptable to use in a firearm;
excluding, however:
   A.   Any ammunition exclusively designed for use with a device used
exclusively for signaling or safety and required or recommended by the United
States coast guard or the interstate commerce commission; or
   B.   Any ammunition designed exclusively for use with a stud or rivet driver
or other similar industrial ammunition.
   ASSAULT WEAPONS: A. Any weapon, which shoots, is designed to shoot, or can
be readily restored to shoot, automatically more than one shot without manually
reloading by a single function of the trigger, including the frame or receiver
of any such weapon, or sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses, or carries
any combination of parts designed or intended for use in converting any weapon
into a machine gun, or any combination of parts from which a machine gun can be
assembled if such parts are in the possession or under the control of a person;
   B.   Any rifle having one or more barrels less than sixteen inches (16") in
length or a shotgun having one or more barrels less than eighteen inches (18")
in length or any weapon made from a rifle or shotgun, whether by alteration,
modification, or otherwise, if such a weapon as modified has an overall length
of less than twenty six inches (26"); or
   C.   Any bomb, bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing an
explosive substance of over one-fourth (1/4) ounce for like purposes, such as,
but not limited to, black powder bombs and Molotov cocktails or artillery
projectiles; or
   D.   For purposes of this section assault weapons shall include "stun guns"
or "taser guns" which is defined as: 1) any device which is powered by
electrical charging units, such as batteries, and which fires one or several
barbs attached to a length of wire and which, upon hitting a human, can send
out a current capable of disrupting the person's nervous system in such a
manner as to render him incapable of normal functioning or 2) any device which
is powered by electrical charging units, such as batteries, and which, upon
contact with a human or clothing worn by a human, can send out current capable
of disrupting the person's nervous system in such a manner as to render him
incapable of normal functioning.
   EXTENT OF PROTECTION LEVEL II: As defined by "Underwriters Laboratories
Manual" UL681.
   FIREARM: Any device, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a
projectile or projectiles by the action of an explosion, expansion of gas or
escape of gas; excluding, however:
   A.   Any pneumatic gun, spring gun or BB gun which expels a single globular
projectile not exceeding 0.18 inch in diameter.
   B.   Any device used exclusively for signaling or safety and required or
recommended by the United States coast guard or the interstate commerce
commission.
   C.   Any device used exclusively for the firing of stud cartridges,
explosive rivets or similar industrial ammunition.
   D.   An antique firearm (other than a machine gun) which, although designed
as a weapon, the Illinois department of law enforcement finds by reason of the
date of its manufacture, value, design and other characteristics is primarily a
collector's item and is not likely to be used as a weapon.
   E.   Model rockets designed to propel a model vehicle in a vertical
direction.
   FIREARM DEALER: Any person engaged in the business of: a) selling or renting
firearms and/or ammunition at wholesale or retail, b) manufacturing firearms,
c) repairing firearms or making or fitting special barrels or triggers or
mechanisms to firearms.
   HANDGUN: Any firearm which: a) is designed, redesigned, made or remade and
intended to be fired while held in one hand, or b) having a barrel of less than
ten inches (10") in length, or c) a firearm of a size which may be concealed
upon the person.
   HANDGUN DEALER: Any person engaged in the business of: a) selling or renting
handguns at wholesale or retail, b) manufacture of handguns, c) repairing
handguns or making or fitting special barrels or trigger mechanisms to
handguns.
   PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm,
partnership, club, society or joint stock company. (Ord. 06-42, 7-24-2006)
6-6-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Handgun Dealer Prohibited: No person shall engage in the business of a
handgun dealer in the village, and no business license shall be granted by the
village to any handgun dealer.
   B.   Sale Of Assault Weapons Prohibited: No person shall engage in the sale
or transfer of any assault weapons in the village, and no business license
shall be granted by the village to any person engaging in the sale, transfer or
commerce of assault weapons.
   C.   Firearm Dealer Prohibited In Residential Zoning Districts: No person
shall engage in the business of a firearm dealer in residential zoning
districts of the village, and no business license shall be granted by the
village to any firearm dealer for residential zoning districts of the village.
(Ord. 06-42, 7-24-2006)
6-6-3: INSPECTION:
Semiannually the village may inspect the premises for compliance with village
ordinances. (Ord. 06-42, 7-24-2006)
6-6-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such offense and be
responsible for the village's cost of prosecution including reasonable attorney
fees. A conviction of a violation of this chapter by a holder of a business
license issued by the village shall constitute grounds for revocation of such
business license by the president and board of trustees of the village. For
purposes of this chapter, every day a person engages in handgun dealing shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 06-42, 7-24-2006)
6-6-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or any application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the
applicability of such provision to other persons not similarly situated or to
other circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 06-42, 7-24-2006)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Arrest Processing Fee
6-7-2: Request For Hearing
6-7-3: Appeal; Administrative Hearing
6-7-1: ARREST PROCESSING FEE:
   A.   The police department shall charge a thirty dollar ($30.00)
administrative fee on any arrest, including a traffic or warrant arrest, to be
levied and paid at the time of such arrest. If the processing fee cannot be
paid at the time of the arrest, the individual shall be billed.
   B.   In order for the fee to be assessed, the subject must be processed in
the West Dundee police department's booking room.
   C.   When the arrest involves a juvenile offender, the parent or legal
guardian shall be responsible for paying the processing fee.
   D.   The processing fee shall constitute a debt due and owing to the
village, and the village may seek to obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce
such judgment as provided by law. (Ord. 2007-07, 3-5-2007)
6-7-2: REQUEST FOR HEARING:
   A.   An individual may request, in writing within thirty (30) days of the
imposition of the administrative fee, a hearing.
   B.   The chief of police or their designee shall conduct the hearing.
   C.   The hearing shall be informal, not subject to the formal rules of
evidence, and may be conducted over the phone.
   D.   If, after the hearing, the chief of police or his designee determines
that the imposition of the administrative fee was proper then they shall direct
the collection of the administrative fee.
   E.   If there is a determination that the imposition of the administrative
fee was improper, then the arrestee shall not be required to pay the
administrative fee. If the administrative fee has already been paid then the
same will be refunded.
   F.   The individual may appeal the decision of the chief of police, or their
designee, by requesting, in writing, within fourteen (14) days of the decision,
an administrative hearing as set forth herein. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-27-2014)
6-7-3: APPEAL; ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   Upon the timely written request by the individual who has been charged
the administrative fee, a hearing on the lawfulness of the imposition of the
administrative fee shall be conducted in conjunction with section
6-8-4, "Administrative Hearings", of this title.
   B.   Any sworn or affirmed report that is prepared in the performance of a
law enforcement officer's duties and sufficiently describes the circumstances
leading to the individual's arrest and processing shall be admissible prima
facie evidence of the probable cause and the individual's liability, unless
rebutted by clear and convincing evidence.
   C.   If after the hearing, the hearing officer finds that the imposition of
the administrative fee was proper under the terms of this chapter, the hearing
officer may enter a written order finding the individual civilly liable to the
village of West Dundee.
   D.   If the individual requests a hearing but fails to appear at the
hearing, the hearing officer may enter a default order for the amount of the
administrative fee against the individual.
   E.   If the individual fails to timely request a hearing, an order for the
amount of the administrative fee shall be entered against the individual,
unless said individual has affirmatively waived the right to an administrative
hearing and agreed to pay the administrative fee.
   F.   If after the hearing, the hearing officer finds that the imposition of
the administrative fee was improper, then the individual will not be charged
the administrative fee. (Ord. 2014-03, 2-27-2014)
CHAPTER 8
ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT THROUGH ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
6-8-1: Purpose And Creation
6-8-2: Department Composition
6-8-3: Violation Notices
6-8-4: Administrative Hearings
6-8-5: Enforcement Of Judgments
6-8-6: Schedule Of Fines And Penalties
6-8-7: Vehicle Impoundment
6-8-8: Automated Traffic Law Enforcement System
6-8-1: PURPOSE AND CREATION:
   A.   Purpose: To provide for fair and efficient enforcement of village
ordinances, as may be allowed by law and directed by ordinance, through an
administrative adjudication of violations of village ordinances thereby
expediting the prosecution and correction of code violations. To that end,
there is hereby adopted division 2.1 of article 1 of the Illinois municipal
code 1 .
   B.   Creation: There is hereby established a department of the municipal
government to be known as the village of West Dundee ordinance enforcement
department to have the power to enforce compliance with all municipal
ordinances as from time to time are authorized by the village board, except for
any offense under the Illinois vehicle code (adopted by the village under title
7 of this code) that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles
other than a notice of violation pursuant to an automated traffic law
enforcement system which shall be enforced pursuant to this chapter and except
for any reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois vehicle code.
The establishment of the West Dundee ordinance enforcement department does not
preclude the village board from using any legal system or other method to
enforce ordinances of the village. Unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, any references throughout this chapter to "village code", "this
code", "code", or "ordinance" shall be a reference to the West Dundee Municipal
Code, as amended, or to any municipal ordinance as from time to time authorized
by the village board. (Ord. 07-52, 12-3-2007; amd. Ord. 08-41, 9-22-2008; Ord.
2019-03, 2-4-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2.1.
6-8-2: DEPARTMENT COMPOSITION:
   A.   Organization: The village of West Dundee's ordinance enforcement
department shall be composed of a hearing officer, an ordinance enforcement
administrator, and such other personnel as deemed necessary and as appointed by
the president, with the power and authority as hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Hearing Officer:
      1.   A hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to practice law in
the state of Illinois for at least three (3) years.
      2.   The hearing officer shall have the following duties:
         a.   Preside over all adjudicatory hearings to determine whether or
not a village code violation exists and administer oaths and affirmations;
         b.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
existence of a village code violation;
         c.   At any time prior to the hearing date, the hearing officer
assigned to hear the case may, at the request of either party, direct witnesses
to appear and give testimony at the hearing or produce relevant documents;
         d.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
         e.   Issue and sign a written finding, decision and order stating
whether a village code violation exists;
         f.   Impose penalties and sanctions or such other relief consistent
with applicable provisions of this code and assess costs upon finding a party
liable for the charged violation, except, however, that in no event shall the
hearing officer have the authority to impose a penalty of incarceration;
         g.   Upon a finding of liable a twenty five dollar ($25.00) penalty is
to be imposed by the hearing officer as an administrative adjudication hearing
cost. This additional penalty shall not be construed as part of the fine for
the purposes of any reduction made in the fine for compliance.
      3.   Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings under
this chapter, the hearing officer shall have successfully completed a formal
training program which includes the following:
         a.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearings over which the hearing officer shall preside;
         b.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that he/
she will adjudicate;
         c.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
         d.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including rules on evidence
and issuing final orders.
      4.   The hearing officer shall be employed as an independent contractor
of the village and shall not be considered an employee of the village. A
hearing officer may be removed with or without cause by the village president
or his or her designee.
   C.   Ordinance Enforcement Administrator: The ordinance enforcement
administrator is authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
village ordinance violations as may be permitted by law and directed by
ordinance.
      2.   Adopt, distribute and process all notices as may be required under
this chapter or as may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of this
chapter.
      3.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of liability.
      4.   Certify copies of final determination of an ordinance violation
adjudicated pursuant to this chapter, and any factual reports verifying the
final determination of any violation liability which was issued in accordance
with this chapter, the laws of the state of Illinois including 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 as from time to time amended.
      5.   Certify reports to the secretary of state concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter as hereinafter set forth, and those of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/6-306.5.
      6.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created.
      7.   Collect unpaid fines and penalties through private collection
agencies and pursuit of all postjudgment remedies available by current law.
(Ord. 07-52, 12-3-2007; amd. Ord. 2019-03, 2-4-2019)
6-8-3: VIOLATION NOTICES:
   A.   Issuance Of Violation Notices:
      1.   Violation notice of any ordinance violation shall be issued by the
persons authorized under this code and shall contain information and shall be
certified and constitute prima facie evidence of the violation cited as
hereinafter set forth.
      2.   All full time, part time and auxiliary police officers as well as
other specific individuals authorized by any village official or village
department shall have the authority to issue violation notices.
      3.   Any individual authorized hereby to issue violation notices and who
detects an ordinance violation authorized to be adjudicated under this chapter
or a violation of any section of any village ordinance, is authorized to issue
notice of violation thereof and shall make service thereof as is hereinafter
set forth.
   B.   Violation Notice Requirements:
      1.   The violation notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the
following information:
         a.   The name and address of the party violating the ordinance, if
known.
         b.   The date and time of the violation (date of issuance).
         c.   The type and nature of the violation and the ordinance violated.
         d.   Vehicle make and state registration number (if applicable).
         e.   The names of any witnesses to the violation.
         f.   The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice.
         g.   The date and location of the adjudication hearing of ordinance
violations which date shall be not less than sixteen (16) nor more than sixty
(60) days after the date of the violation notice. The legal authority and
jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held and the penalties for
failure to appear at the hearing.
         h.   The fine and penalty which may be assessed for late payment;
         i.   In the case of a violation pertaining to real property, the
address of the property where the violation is observed; and,
         j.   If applicable to the violation in question, the amount of the
fine that may be paid by a party upon a written admission of a violation and
waiver of a hearing, which fine shall be no less than the minimum fine set by
this code relative to the violation at issue.
      2.   The correctness of facts contained in any violation notice shall be
verified by the person issuing said notice by:
         a.   Signing his/her name to the notice at the time of issuance; or
         b.   In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by signing
a single certificate, to be kept by the ordinance enforcement administrator,
attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the device while under
his/her control.
      3.   Parties shall be served with process in a manner reasonably
calculated to give them actual notice including, as appropriate, personal
service of process upon a party or its employer or agent; service by mail at a
party's address; or notice that is posted upon the property where the violation
is found where the party is the owner or administrator of the property as
follows:
         a.   The original or a facsimile of the violation notice shall be
retained by the ordinance enforcement administrator where a docket number shall
be stamped on all copies and a hearing date noted;
         b.   The notice shall be kept as a record in the ordinary course of
business by the ordinance enforcement administrator and shall be a part of the
hearing record;
         c.   One copy of the violation notice shall be returned to the person
issuing the notice so that he or she may prepare evidence for presentation at
the hearing on the date indicated;
         d.   One copy of the violation notice shall be served to the alleged
violator along with a summons commanding the alleged violator to appear at the
hearing;
         e.   In the case of a violation pertaining to real property, if the
village has an ordinance requiring property owners, meaning the legal
beneficial owner(s) of a structure, to register with it, service may be made on
the owner by mailing the notice and summons to the property owner's address
registered with the village;
         f.   In the case of a violation pertaining to real property, if the
name of the property owner cannot be ascertained or if service on the owner
cannot be made by mail, service may be made on the owner by posting or nailing
a copy of the violation notice form on the front door of the structure where
the violation is found, not less than sixteen (16) days before the hearing is
scheduled.
      4.   Any violation notice issued, signed and served in accordance
herewith, or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie correct and shall be
prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the notice.
      5.   Notices issued in accordance with the automated traffic law
enforcement system which records violations covered in the Illinois vehicle
code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-306, disregard a traffic control
device or turn on red violations, shall be issued by the village or designated
representative. Written notice of the violation shall be made to the registered
owner or lessee of the vehicle by U.S. mail within thirty (30) days after the
Illinois secretary of state makes notification of the identity of the
registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, and in no event later than ninety
(90) days following the violation. The village or designated representative
shall only be required to notify a lessee if the leasing company/lessor
provides the lessee's name by an affidavit and a copy of the lease within sixty
(60) days of the notice's issuance. If the lessee information is not provided
within sixty (60) days, the leasing company/lessor may be found liable. If any
notice to an address is returned as undeliverable, a second notice shall be
sent to the last known address recorded in a United States post office approved
database of the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle. An automated traffic law
violation shall require a review of the associated recorded image by a traffic
compliance administrator, who shall inspect the image and determine whether the
motor vehicle was being operated in violation or whether a legitimate defense
is visible. Upon determination that the recorded image captures a violation and
that no defense applies, the notice of violation shall be served upon the
registered vehicle owner in the manner provided above. The traffic compliance
administrator shall retain a copy of all violation notices, recorded images and
other correspondence mailed to the owner of the vehicle. Each notice of
violation shall constitute evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is
admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation of the above noted statutory
and local provisions and shall be prima facie evidence of a violation, subject
to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established by law. The notice of
violation shall be issued by the village or designated authority and shall
include the following information:
         a.   Name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the secretary of state, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in the United States post office approved database.
         b.   The make (only if discernable) and registration number of the
motor vehicle involved in the violation.
         c.   Violation charged.
         d.   The location where the violation occurred.
         e.   Date and time of violation.
         f.   A copy of recorded images.
         g.   The amount of civil penalty and the date by which the penalty
should be paid (21 days from the date of issuance), if a hearing is not
requested, and a statement that the payment of the fine shall operate as a
final disposition of the violation.
         h.   A statement that a failure to pay the civil penalty by the date
noted may result in an additional late fee being assessed against the owner or
lessee.
         i.   The amount of late fee.
         j.   A statement that failure to pay by the date specified will result
in a final determination of liability and may result in the suspension of
driving privileges for the registered owner of the vehicle.
         k.   A statement that the recorded images constitute prima facie
evidence of violation.
         l.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by paying the
fine or challenging the charge, by mail or by administrative hearing.
         m.   A statement of how an administrative hearing may be requested.
(Ord. 07-52, 12-3-2007; amd. Ord. 08-41, 9-22-2008; Ord. 2019-03, 2-4-2019)
6-8-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   Continuances: No continuances shall be authorized by the hearing
officer in proceedings under this chapter except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the alleged violator. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance authorized
by a hearing officer under this chapter shall not exceed twenty five (25) days.
   B.   Hearing And Evidence:
      1.   At the hearing, a hearing officer shall preside, shall hear
testimony, and shall accept any evidence relevant to the existence or
nonexistence of a village code violation. The strict rules of evidence
applicable to judicial proceedings shall not apply to hearings authorized by
this chapter.
      2.   The case for the village may be presented by an attorney designated
by the village president or by any other village employee, except that the case
for the village shall not be presented by an employee of the ordinance
enforcement department. The case for the alleged violator may be presented by
the alleged violator, his or her attorney, or any other agent or representative
of the defendant.
      3.   If on the date set for hearing the alleged violator or his or her
attorney fails to appear, the hearing officer may find the alleged violator in
default and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the
existence of a code violation.
      4.   Upon finding the alleged violator in default, the ordinance
enforcement administrator shall send or cause to be sent notices by first class
mail, postage prepaid, to the violator who received the notice of an ordinance
violation; or, in the case of a violation of title 7 of this code, the
registered owner or operator of the "cited vehicle" at the address as is
recorded with the secretary of state, and shall be sent to the lessee of the
"cited vehicle" at the address last known to the lessor of the "cited vehicle"
at the time of the lease. Service of notices sent in accordance herewith shall
be complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail.
      5.   A hearing officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and
set a new hearing date, upon a petition filed within twenty one (21) days after
the issuance of the order of default, if the hearing officer determines that
the petitioner's failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any
time if the petitioner establishes that the municipality did not provide proper
service of process. If any judgment is set aside pursuant to this subsection,
the hearing officer shall have authority to enter an order extinguishing any
lien which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the municipality as a
result of the vacated default judgment.
     C.   Findings, Decision And Order:
      1.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing as to
whether or not a code violation exists.
      2.   The determination shall be in writing and shall be designated as the
findings, decision, and order, including the fine, penalty or action with which
the defendant must comply.
      3.   The findings, decision, and order shall include:
         a.   The hearing officer's findings of fact;
         b.   A decision of whether or not a code violation exists based upon
the findings of fact;
         c.   In the case of a code violation only, an order that states the
sanction or dismisses the case if a code violation is not proved.
         d.   In the case of a building code violation only, an order ordering
the owner to correct the building code violation or dismissing the case if a
building code violation is not proved; and
         e.   In the case of a building code violation only, if a building code
violation is proved, the order may also impose the sanctions that are provided
in the building code for the building code violation proved.
      4.   A monetary sanction under this chapter shall be consistent with
applicable village code provisions with a maximum of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for all code violations.
      5.   The maximum monetary fine imposed under the village code shall be
exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs incurred by the village to secure
compliance with the village code, and shall not be applicable to cases to
enforce the collection of any tax imposed and collected by the village.
      6.   A copy of any findings, decisions, or orders shall be served on the
alleged violator within five (5) days after it is issued. Service shall be made
in person or by first class mail.
      7.   Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of any fine money
shall be in the manner as set forth in the village code.
      8.   In the case of a building code violation only, the order to correct
a building code violation and the sanctions imposed by the village as the
result of a finding of a building code violation under this Chapter shall
attach to the property as well as to the property owner so that a finding of a
building code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or
transferring the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner
of the property takes subject to the findings, decision and order of a hearing
officer under this chapter. (Ord. 07-52, 12-3-2007; amd. Ord. 2019-03, 2-4-
2019)
6-8-5: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENTS:
   A.   Debt Due Village:
      1.   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine,
other sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or
the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the Administrative
Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.) shall be a debt due and owing the village
and, as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
      2.   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under
the Administrative Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.) may be sought for a
final determination of the code violation, unless stayed by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the findings, decision and order of the hearing officer
may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      3.   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a
judgment ordering a defendant to correct a code violation or imposing any fine
or other sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred by the
village to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney's
fees, court costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure,
after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a hearing officer,
shall be a debt due and owing the village and may be collected in accordance
with applicable law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a hearing officer
pursuant to this subsection, the village shall provide notice to the defendant
that states that the defendant shall appear at a hearing before the
administrative hearing officer to determine whether the defendant has failed to
comply with the judgment. The notice shall set the date for such a hearing,
which shall not be less than seven (7) days from the date that notice is
served. If notice is served by mail, the seven (7) day period shall begin to
run on the date that the notice was deposited in the mail.
      4.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by Article XII of the
Code of Civil Procedure or by the Uniform Commercial Code, a lien shall be
imposed on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the defendant in the
amount of any debt due and owing the village under this section. The lien may
be enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
      5.   A notice of impending suspension of a person's driver's license
shall be sent to any violator determined to be liable for the payment of any
fine or penalty that remains due and owing on ten (10) or more vehicular
standing or parking regulation violations:
         a.   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine or
penalty owing within forty five (45) days of the date of the notice will result
in the village notifying the secretary of state that the person is eligible for
initiation of suspension proceedings under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
306.5, incorporated herein by reference.
         b.   The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent
by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the
secretary of state.
         c.   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and
owing the village within the time specified may result in proceeding with
collection procedures in the same manner as a judgment entered by any court of
competent jurisdiction.
         d.   A warning that the vehicle owned by the person and located within
the village may be immobilized and impounded for failure to pay fines or
penalties for ten (10) or more vehicular standing or parking regulation
violations.
   B.   Judicial Review: The findings, decision, and order of the hearing
officer shall be subject to review in the circuit court of Kane County. The
provisions of the administrative review law, and the rules adopted pursuant
thereto, shall apply to and govern every action for the judicial review of the
findings, decision, and order of the hearing officer under this chapter. (Ord.
07-52, 12-3-2007; amd. Ord. 2019-03, 2-4-2019)
6-8-6: SCHEDULE OF FINES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   General Fines For Any Ordinance Other Than Title 7 (Vehicle Code) Of
This Code: For violation of any village ordinance other than a violation under
title 7 (vehicle code) of this code, fines and penalties shall be as
established from time to time by the village board but in no event more than
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or the amount prescribed by the Illinois
supreme court for the mandatory arbitration system, whichever is greater.
   B.   Fines For Violation Of Title 7 (Vehicle Code) Of This Code Other Than
Handicapped Parking And Regulated Parking: For violation of any provision of
title 7 (vehicle code) of this code; or any compliance violation; or, violation
of any other village ordinance regulating, restricting or prohibiting the
standing or parking of motor vehicles along the streets, byways, alleyways,
regulated parking lots or such other locations as may be controlled by off
street parking agreements, located within the geographical boundaries of this
village, other than for handicapped parking, the fine shall be a maximum of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   C.   Fines For Violations Of Certain Regulated Parking And Handicapped
Parking:
      1.   For violation of any village ordinance regulating, restricting or
prohibiting the standing or parking of motor vehicles along the streets,
byways, alleyways, regulated parking lots or such other locations as may be
controlled by off street parking agreements, located within the geographical
boundaries of this village for areas specifically designated for handicapped
parking, the fine shall be a maximum of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
      2.   For a person violating section 5/11-306 and such violation is
documented with use of the automated traffic system, the fine shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. Failure to pay the fine within
fourteen (14) days of issuance of the notice of final determination shall
result in an additional one hundred dollar ($100.00) late payment fine. (Ord.
07-52, 12-3-2007)
6-8-7: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Authorization To Impound, Boot Or Tow Motor Vehicle: Any motor vehicle
whose registered owner has been determined to be liable for ten (10) or more
vehicular standing or parking regulation violations, for which the fines or
penalties assessed remain unpaid, may be immobilized, booted or towed and
impounded if:
      1.   The ordinance enforcement administrator has determined that a person
has been determined to be liable for ten (10) or more ordinance violations, for
which the fines or penalties remain unpaid.
      2.   The person determined to be liable for ten (10) or more violations
is the registered owner of a motor vehicle located within the village
geographical boundaries.
      3.   A seizure notice has been sent to the registered owner of the motor
vehicle located within the geographical boundaries of the village which
contains, but shall not be limited to, the following:
         a.   That a final determination has been made on ten (10) or more
ordinance violations, for which the fines and penalties remain unpaid;
         b.   A listing of the violations for which the person has been
determined to be liable, which shall include for each violation:
            (1)   The ordinance violation notice number;
            (2)   Date of issuance; and
            (3)   Total amount of fines and penalties assessed;
         c.   That the motor vehicle owned by the person and located within the
village is subject to immobilization and/or towing and impoundment if the fines
and penalties are not paid within, but not later than, fifteen (15) days of the
date of the notice;
         d.   Date of immobilization;
         e.   Date of impending towing and impoundment; and
         f.   That the registered owner may contest the validity of the notice
by appearing in person before the ordinance enforcement administrator within
fifteen (15) days of the date of the notice and submitting evidence which would
conclusively disprove liability, such as the following:
            (1)   The registered owner was not the owner or lessee of the
vehicle on the date or dates the notices of violation were issued; or
            (2)   The fines or penalties for the violations cited in the notice
were paid in full; or
            (3)   The registered owner has not accumulated ten (10) or more
ordinance violation notices which are unpaid, not adjudicated or for which no
appearance was made.
      4.   The motor vehicle of the registered owner to whom notice is sent has
failed to make payment of the fines or penalties as specified in the notice and
has failed to appear with evidence to conclusively disprove liability before
the ordinance enforcement administrator to contest the validity of the notice.
   B.   Criminal Violations or Code Violations Authorizing Seizure/Impoundment:
A Motor vehicle, operated with the permission, express or implied, of the owner
of record, that is used in connection with the following violations, shall be
subject to seizure and impoundment by the Village, and the owner of record of
said vehicle shall be liable to the Village for an administrative penalty of
seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), in addition to costs of prosecution
and any towing and storage fees as hereinafter provided:
      1.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission or attempted
commission of any offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and forfeited
pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1.
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, other drugs, intoxicating
compounds, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501.
      3.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the
commission or attempted commission of any felony offense or in violation of the
provisions of the Illinois cannabis control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
550/1.
      4.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in connection with the
commission or attempted commission of any offense in violation of the Illinois
controlled substances act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100.
      5.   Unlawful use of a weapon in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-1; aggravated discharge of a firearm in violation of 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.5; unlawful possession of a firearm and firearm
ammunition in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.1.
      6.   Driving while license, permit or privilege to operate a motor
vehicle is suspended or revoked, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303;
vehicles shall not be subject to seizure/impoundment if the suspension is for
unpaid citations, due to failure to comply with emission testing.
      7.   Operating a motor vehicle without a valid driver's license, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101 in combination with operation of motor
vehicle with no insurance 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-707.
         a.   Except a person that had a valid driver's license that is expired
for less than six (6) months.
         b.   Except a person who is less than seventeen (17) years of age
operating a motor vehicle on any street or highway when in violation of the
child curfew act.
      8.   Use of a motor vehicle in violation of Title 6, Chapter 10 of this
Municipal Code.
   C.   Request For Hearing In Case Of Impoundment And Towing Of Motor Vehicle:
Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment, the ordinance enforcement
administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest the validity
of the immobilization or towing and impoundment on the next scheduled hearing
date or, if sooner, scheduled by the ordinance enforcement administrator for
good cause shown, but in no case shall the hearing be scheduled later than
thirty (30) days after the request for hearing is filed and shall serve notice
of the hearing date upon the registered owner by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the address as is set forth on the request for hearing. Service of
the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed in the United States
mail.
   D.   Notice Affixed To Vehicle In Cases Of Immobilization: Upon
immobilization of an eligible vehicle, a notice shall be affixed to the vehicle
in a conspicuous place. Such notice shall warn that the vehicle is immobilized
and that any attempt to move the vehicle may result in its damage. The notice
shall also state that the unauthorized removal of or damage to the immobilizing
restraint is a violation of sections 16-1 and 21-1 of the Illinois criminal
code. The notice also shall provide the following information specifying that a
release of the immobilizing restraint may be had by:
      1.   Paying all the fines and penalties, if any, on the outstanding
complaints for which notice has been sent prior to the date of the
immobilization; or
      2.   Completing appearance forms on all outstanding parking violation
complaints for which notice had been sent prior to the date of the
immobilization and depositing collateral in the amount of fifty percent (50%)
of the total fines for these outstanding parking violation complaints, or five
hundred dollars ($500.00), whichever is less.
   E.   Towing Of Immobilized Vehicle: Except where the vehicle is otherwise
subject to towing, if the immobilizing restraint has not been released as
hereinabove provided within seventy two (72) hours of its placement, the
vehicle shall be towed and impounded.
   F.   Postimpoundment Notice: Within ten (10) days after a vehicle has been
impounded, notice of impoundment shall be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the registered owner of the vehicle. The notice shall
state that the owner has the right to a postimmobilization and posttowing
hearing as provided in subsection G of this section and that if the vehicle is
not claimed within thirty (30) days from the date of the notice, the vehicle
may be sold or otherwise disposed of in accordance with the Illinois vehicle
code.
   G.   Hearing In Case Of Vehicle Immobilization: The owner of an immobilized
vehicle or other interested person shall have the right to a hearing to
determine whether the immobilization or any subsequent towing was erroneous or
whether the vehicle was properly included on an immobilization list, if the
owner files a written demand for a hearing before the ordinance enforcement
administrator within fourteen (14) days after issuance of the notice specified
in subsection F of this section or within fourteen (14) days of immobilization,
whichever is later. A hearing shall be conducted on any business day within
forty eight (48) hours of receipt of a written demand for hearing, unless
otherwise mutually agreed by the parties. Failure to request or attend a
scheduled hearing shall be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing. In the
event of such failure, any amount deposited pursuant to subsection D of this
section shall be forfeited. A hearing provided by this subsection shall not
determine the validity of or otherwise adjudicate any citation or notice of
ordinance violation issued relative to the immobilized vehicle, but shall only
relate to whether the vehicle was properly immobilized or towed by determining
whether the owner previously submitted evidence required by this chapter.
   H.   Fines And Fees For Immobilization: The fine for immobilization shall be
five hundred dollars ($500.00) and the fine for impoundment and towing shall be
an amount not to exceed six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00). The owner of the
vehicle shall also be charged reasonable storage and towing fees should the
vehicle be removed to a private storage facility, provided that no fees shall
be assessed for any immobilization or tow which has been determined to be
erroneous.
   I.   Towing Services: The ordinance enforcement administrator shall appoint
or retain the services of an individual agency or company to tow and impound
vehicles in accordance herewith, provided that that individual, agency or
company is fully insured and licensed according to local or state law and has
available a secured impound area within which to retain vehicles impounded
hereunder. For the purpose of this subsection a "secured area" shall mean an
area bounded by a fence, chainlink or otherwise, of a sufficient height and
with locking gates so as to minimize or prevent unauthorized entry into the
impounded vehicles. (Ord. 07-52, 12-3-2007; amd. Ord. 11-02, 2-21-2011; Ord.
2025-36, 7-21-2025)
6-8-8: AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM:
   A.   Definitions:
   AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device within the village with
one or more motor vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light
signal to produce recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection
against a steady or flashing red signal indication in violation of section 11-
306 of the Illinois vehicle code ("code"), 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
306, or similar violation of this village code.
   DISREGARDING A TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: Failure to stop and remain stopped
before an intersection that is controlled by a red signal as provided for in
section 11-306 of the code.
   ILLEGAL RIGHT HAND TURN: A right hand turn in violation of a sign
prohibiting such a turn as further defined in section 11-306(c)3 of the code.
   NO TURN ON RED: Where the motor vehicle comes to a complete stop and does
not enter the intersection as defined by section 1-132 of the code, during the
cycle of red signal indication unless one or more pedestrians are present, even
if a motor vehicle stops at the point past a stop line or crosswalk where a
driver is required to stop, as specified in subsection (c) of section 11-306 of
the code or this village code.
   RECORDED IMAGES: Images produced by the automated traffic law enforcement
system, which consist of either two (2) or more photographs; two (2) or more
microphotographs; two (2) or more electronic images; or, a video recording
showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of the
recording, clearly identifying the registration plate number of the motor
vehicle.
   TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed as such through
article 25 of the code and shall have the following additional powers: adopt,
distribute and process automated traffic law violation notices and other
notices required by this section, collect money paid as fines and penalties,
operate the automated traffic law enforcement system, make certified reports to
the secretary of state as required by this section and review and approve
determinations of violations made by any technician.
   B.   Violations: It shall be a violation of this section for a vehicle to
disregard a traffic control device or turn on red in violation of section 11-
306 of the code.
   C.   Defenses: The following may be considered defenses by a hearing officer
for a violation of subsection B of this section:
      1.   The motor vehicle or registration plates of the motor vehicle were
stolen before the violation occurred, and not under the control of or in the
possession of the owner at the time of the violation.
         a.   To demonstrate that the motor vehicle or the registration plates
were stolen before the violation occurred and were not under the control or
possession of the owner at the time of the violation, the owner must submit
proof that a report concerning the stolen motor vehicle or registration plates
was filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner.
      2.   The driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection when the
light was red either: a) in order to yield the right of way to an emergency
vehicle or b) as part of a funeral procession.
   D.   Notices Of Violation:
      1.   When the automated traffic law enforcement system records a motor
vehicle entering an intersection in violation of subsection B of this section,
the village shall issue a written notice of violation to the registered owner
or lessee of the vehicle, which shall be delivered by U.S. mail within thirty
(30) days after the Illinois secretary of state notifies the village of the
identity of the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, and in no event
later than ninety (90) days following the violation. The village shall only be
required to notify a lessee if the leasing company/lessor provides the lessee's
name by an affidavit and a copy of the lease within sixty (60) days of the
notice's issuance. If the driver information is not provided within sixty (60)
days, the leasing company/lessor may be found liable. If any notice to an
address is returned as undeliverable, a second notice shall be sent to the last
known address recorded in a United States post office approved database of the
owner or lessee of the cited vehicle. The second notice shall be made by first
class mail postage prepaid.
      2.   A notice of violation associated with an automated traffic law
violation shall require a review of the associated recorded image by the
traffic compliance administrator, who shall inspect the image and determine
whether the motor vehicle was being operated in violation of subsection B of
this section, or whether one of the defenses enumerated in subsection C of this
section is visibly applicable upon inspection. Upon determination that the
recorded image captures a violation and that no defense applies, the notice of
violation shall be served upon the registered vehicle owner in the manner
provided for above. The traffic compliance administrator shall retain a copy of
all violation notices, recorded images and other correspondence mailed to the
owner of the vehicle. Each notice of violation shall constitute evidence of the
facts contained in the notice and is admissible in any proceeding alleging a
violation of the above noted statutory and local provisions and shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses
established in this section.
      3.   The notice of violation shall include the following information:
         a.   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the secretary of state, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a United States post office approved database;
         b.   The make (only if discernable) and registration number of the
motor vehicle involved in the violation;
         c.   The violation charged;
         d.   The location where the violation occurred;
         e.   The date and time of the violation;
         f.   A copy of the recorded images;
         g.   The amount of the civil penalty and the date by which the penalty
should be paid (14 days from the date of issuance), if a hearing is not
requested, and a statement that the payment of the fine shall operate as a
final disposition of the violation;
         h.   A statement that a failure to pay the civil penalty by the date
noted may result in an additional late fee being assessed against the owner or
lessee;
         i.   The amount of the late fee;
         j.   A statement that the failure to pay by the date specified will
result in a final determination of liability and may result in the suspension
of driving privileges for the registered owner of the vehicle;
         k.   A statement that the recorded images constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation;
         l.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by paying the
fine or challenging the charge in court, by mail or by administrative hearing;
and
         m.   A statement of how an administrative hearing may be requested.
   E.   Hearing:
      1.   The owner of a vehicle being operated in violation of subsection B
of this section may request a hearing by the respond by date on the notice of
violation (14 days from the date of issuance), to challenge the evidence or set
forth an applicable defense. The notice of violation shall constitute evidence
of the facts contained in the notice and is admissible in any proceeding
alleging a violation of subsection B of this section. The notice of violation
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis
of the defenses established in subsection C of this section.
      2.   The owner's failure to appear at the hearing will result in a
finding of liability. In the event of a failure to appear, a "findings,
decision and order" letter will be sent to the owner. The owner's failure to
pay the amount by the date specified in that letter will result in a final
determination.
   F.   Nonresidents: Where the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle
is not a resident of the village but seeks to contest the merits of the alleged
violation, such person may contest the charges using the same available
defenses as stated above, but rather than attend the administrative hearing,
they may submit any and all documentary evidence to the traffic compliance
administrator no later than the hearing date, together with a written statement
reflecting that they are nonresidents of the village. The traffic compliance
administrator shall forward all timely submitted materials to the hearing
officer for review and determination.
   G.   Final Determination: A final determination of an automated traffic law
violation(s) liability shall occur:
      1.   Following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty
after the hearing officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking,
compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s) liability within
the required twenty five (25) days and the exhaustion of or the failure to
exhaust any administrative review procedures hereinafter set forth, or
      2.   Where a person fails to appear at a prior requested administrative
hearing provided to contest the alleged standing, parking or compliance
regulation violation(s) on the date and at the time and place specified in a
prior served or mailed notice, or fails to appear at the hearing for an
automated traffic law violation on the date and at the time and place specified
in a prior mailed notice, the hearing officer's determination of vehicular
standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s)
liability shall become final upon the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust
any administrative or judicial review procedures hereinafter set forth:
         a.   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination,
or
         b.   Upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition without a
filing having been made.
   H.   Notice Of Determination Of Liability: A determination of automated
traffic law violation liability shall occur following failure to pay the fine
or penalty, or to contest the alleged violation within fourteen (14) days of
the notice of violation. Where a person fails to appear at a hearing to contest
the alleged violation in the time and manner specified in a prior mailed
notice, the hearing officer will enter findings, decision and order's
determination of automated traffic law violation liability shall become final:
1) upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination, or 2) upon
expiration of the period for filing such a petition without a filing having
been made. If a person appears at a hearing and is found liable or contests the
violation by mail and is found liable, the hearing officer will enter findings,
decision and order, which is a final determination of automated traffic law
violation liability that is a final, appealable order.
   I.   Notice Of Final Determination: A notice of final determination shall be
sent following the final determination of automated traffic law violation
liability and the conclusion of judicial review. The notice of final
determination shall include the following information:
      1.   A statement that the unpaid fine is a debt due and owing to the
village of West Dundee.
      2.   A warning that a failure to pay any fine due and owing to the
village of West Dundee within fourteen (14) days may result in a petition to
the circuit court of Kane County to have the unpaid fine rendered as a judgment
or may result in the suspension of the person's driver's license for failure to
pay fines or penalties for five (5) or more violations under this section.
   J.   Petitions To Set Aside Determination: A petition to set aside
determination of an automated traffic law violation must be filed with or
mailed to the traffic control administrator within fourteen (14) days of the
date of mailing of the notice of determination of liability. The grounds for
the petition are limited to:
      1.   The person was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the
date the violation notice was issued;
      2.   The person having already paid the fine for the violation in
question; and
      3.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely petition to set aside the determination of liability,
the hearing officer shall review the petition to determine if cause has been
shown to set aside the determination. If cause has been shown, the village
shall forward the petitioner a new hearing date on which the petitioner must
appear to present his case. The village shall notify the petitioner of the
hearing officer's decision to grant a hearing or deny the petition within
fourteen (14) days of the village's receipt.
   K.   Notice Of Impending Driver's License Suspension: A notice of impending
driver's license suspension shall be sent to the person liable for any fine or
penalty that remains due and owing on five (5) or more violations of this
section. The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall state the
following information:
      1.   The failure to pay the fine owing within forty five (45) days of the
notice's date will result in the village notifying the secretary of state that
the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings under section
6-306.5 of the code;
      2.   A statement that the person may obtain a copy of the original ticket
imposing a fine by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to the village
along with a request for the copy.
The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent by first
class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the secretary of
state or, if any notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, to the
last known address recorded in a United States post office approved database.
   L.   Driver's License Suspension:
      1.   The traffic compliance administrator, by certified report, shall
request that the secretary of state suspend the driving privileges of an owner
of a registered vehicle who has failed to pay any fine or penalty due and owing
as a result of five (5) automated traffic violations. The report shall be
certified and contain the following:
         a.   The name, last known address as recorded with the secretary of
state, as provided by the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of lease, or
as recorded in a United States post office approved database if any notice sent
under this section is returned as undeliverable, and driver's license number of
the person who failed to pay the fine or penalty and the registration number of
any vehicle known to be registered to such person in a state;
         b.   The name of the municipality making the report pursuant to this
section; and
         c.   A statement that a notice of impending driver's license
suspension has been sent to the person named in the report at the address
recorded with the secretary of state or at the last address known to the lessor
of the cited vehicle at the time of the lease or, if any notice sent under this
section is returned as undeliverable at the last known address recorded at a
United States post office approved database; the date on which such notice was
sent; and address to which such notice was sent.
      2.   The traffic compliance administrator shall notify the secretary of
state whenever a person named in the certified report has paid the previously
recorded fine or penalty or whenever the municipality determines that the
original report was in error. A certified copy of such notification shall also
be given upon request and at no additional charge to the person named therein.
      3.   Any person receiving notice from the secretary of state that their
driving privileges may be suspended at the end of a specified period may
challenge the accuracy of the certified report prepared by the traffic
compliance administrator. The person shall, within seven (7) days after having
received notice from the secretary of state, request an opportunity to speak
with the traffic compliance administrator to challenge the accuracy of the
certified report. If the traffic compliance administrator determines that the
original report was in error due to the fact that the person challenging the
report was not the owner or lessee of the vehicle or that the person has
already paid their fine for the five (5) or more traffic violations, the
traffic compliance administrator shall immediately notify the secretary of
state of such error in a subsequent certified report.
   M.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be fined one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each offense. Failure to pay the original fine within
fourteen (14) days of the issuance of the notice of final determination shall
result in an additional one hundred dollar ($100.00) late payment fine.
      1.   The village and the village attorney or the finance director or
their designees may retain attorneys and private collection agents for the
purpose of collecting any default in payment of any fine or penalty imposed by
this Code, or any installment of a fine or penalty. The village shall add a
thirty five percent (35%) cost of collections to any outstanding balance that
requires the village to retain the services of a collection agency. This thirty
five percent (35%) cost includes any default in a fine or penalty or any
installment of a fine or penalty that was previously referred to an attorney or
private collection agency and the payment of which remains outstanding. (Ord.
10-28, 12-20-2010; amd. Ord. 2019-19, 8-19-2019)
CHAPTER 9
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-9-1: Purpose
6-9-2: Definitions
6-9-3: Procedures
6-9-4: Service
6-9-5: Administrative Hearing
6-9-6: Violations
6-9-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any property within the Village to become or
remain a chronic nuisance property in violation of this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any Owner, agent, management company, or
operator of any residential property to:
      1.   Permit a property to become a chronic nuisance property; or
      2.   Allow a property to continue as a chronic nuisance property.
      3.   Each day that a violation of this chapter continues shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 2025-10, 2-17-2025)
6-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CHIEF OF POLICE: The Chief of Police of the Village of West Dundee or his or
her designee.
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: Property upon which two (2) or more events of
nuisance activities have occurred within a twelve (12)-month period that have
been independently investigated by any law enforcement agency or Village staff.
CONTROL: The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract, or govern
conduct that occurs on that property.
DIRECTOR: The Director of Community Development or his or her designee.
NUISANCE ACTIVITY: Any one (1) of the following activities, behaviors or
conduct, as defined by federal, state or Village ordinance:
   A.   Disorderly conduct as defined in 720 ILCS 5/26-1.
   B.   Unlawful use of weapons as defined in 720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.
   C.   Mob action as defined in 720 ILCS 5/25-1.
   D.   Discharge of a firearm as defined in 720 ILCS 5/24-1.2 and 1.5.
   E.   Gambling as defined by 720 ILCS 5/28-1.
   F.   Possession, manufacture, or delivery of controlled substances as
defined by 720 ILCS 570/401 et seq.
   G.   Public indecency as defined by 720 ILCS 5/11-9.
   H.   Assault or battery or any related offense as defined in 720 ILCS 5/12-
1 et seq.
   I.   Prostitution as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-14 et seq.
   J.   Criminal damage to property as defined in 720 ILCS 5/21-1 et seq.
   K.   Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol as defined in 235 ILCS 5/
1 et seq.
   L.   Any violation of Chapter 5 of Title 6 of the Village Code regulating
noise control that results in the issuance of a citation or notice to appear in
court.
   M.   Criminal housing management defined in 720 ILCS 5/12-5.1.
   N.   Structure unfit for human occupancy as defined in the Village’s
Property Maintenance Code.
   O.   Unsafe structure as defined in the Village’s Property Maintenance Code.
   P.   Unlawful structure as defined in the Village’s Property Maintenance
Code.
   Q.   Multiple violations of the Village’s Property Maintenance Code
continuing after disposition of a complaint for those violations.
   R.   Activity that constitutes a violation of a felony or class A
misdemeanor pursuant to a federal or Illinois Statute.
   S.   A violation of Title 6, Chapter 5 of the Municipal Code.
   T.   A violation of a chapter of this Code, adopting class A misdemeanors
under Illinois State Statutes.
   U.   Smoking within fifteen feet (15') or less from entrances, exits,
windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where
smoking is prohibited.
   V.   Smoking cannabis in, or within view of, the public.
   Nuisance activity shall not mean any one (1) of the following activities,
behaviors or conduct, as defined by federal, state or Village ordinance:
   A.   Contact made to police or other emergency services, if:
      1.   The contact was made with the intent to prevent or respond to
domestic violence or sexual violence;
      2.   The intervention or emergency assistance was needed to respond to or
prevent domestic violence or sexual violence; or
      3.   The contact was made by, on behalf of, or otherwise concerns an
individual with a disability and the purpose of the contact was related to that
individual's disability;
   B.   An incident or incidents of actual or threatened domestic violence or
sexual violence against a tenant, household member, or guest occurring in the
dwelling unit or on the premises; or
   C.   Criminal activity or a local ordinance violation occurring in the
dwelling unit or on the premises that is directly relating to domestic violence
or sexual violence, engaged in by a tenant, member of a tenant's household,
guest, or other party, and against a tenant, household member, guest, or other
party.
OWNER: Any person, partnership, land trust, or corporation having any legal or
equitable interest in or control of property. Owner includes, but is not
limited to:
   A.   A mortgagee in possession in who is vested with all or part of the
legal title to the property or, all or part of the beneficial ownership and the
rights to the present use and enjoyment of the premises.
   B.   An occupant who can control what occurs on the property.
   C.   Any person acting as an agent of an Owner.
PERMIT: To suffer, allow, consent to, and acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
PERSON: Any natural person, association, partnership, corporation, trust, or
other entity capable of owning, occupying, or using property in the Village.
PERSON IN CHARGE: Any person in actual or constructive possession of a
property, including but not limited to, an Owner or occupant of property under
his or her ownership or control.
PROPERTY: Any real property, including land and that which is affixed,
incidental, or pertinent to land, including but not limited to, any premises,
room, house, building, or structure, or any separate part or portion thereof,
whether permitted or not. (Ord. 2025-10, 2-17-2025)
6-9-3: PROCEDURES:
When the Chief of Police of the Village of West Dundee or the Chief's designee
receives two (2) or more reports documenting the occurrence of a nuisance
activity on or within a single-family property or a dwelling unit, the Chief of
Police shall independently review such reports to determine whether they
describe nuisance activities. Upon such findings the Chief, or the Chief's
designee, may either request a meeting with the person in charge of the
property or issue a notice of ordinance violation, to the taxpayer of record of
such property, which notice shall include the following:
   A.   The street address or legal description sufficient for identification
of the property.
   B.   A statement that the West Dundee Police Department has information that
the property may be a chronic nuisance property, with a list of the nuisance
activities that may exist or that have occurred and a copy of any code
violations which have been adjudicated.
   C.   Date, time and place of the hearing on the alleged ordinance violation
of this chapter as permitting or allowing a chronic nuisance property. (Ord.
2025-10, 2-17-2025)
6-9-4: SERVICE:
   A.   Service shall be made either personally or by first-class mail
addressed to the person in charge at the address of the Building or the
property believed to be chronic nuisance property, or such a place which is
likely to give notice to the person in charge.
   B.   A copy of the notice shall be either personally served or by first-
class mail addressed to the taxpayer of record or posted on the door of the
Building or to the occupant at the property in violation.
   C.   The failure of any person to receive notice that the property may be a
chronic nuisance property shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the
proceedings under this section. (Ord. 2025-10, 2-17-2025)
6-9-5: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   A hearing before the Village administrative hearing officer shall be
conducted in accordance with Chapter 8 of Title 6 of the Municipal Code and
shall show, by a preponderance of evidence, that the subject property is a
chronic nuisance property.
   B.   The Village's representative shall present evidence in support of its
claim that the property is a chronic nuisance property. The person in charge or
their local representative shall be permitted to rebut such evidence.
   C.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing, whether or
not a violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall be
designated as the findings, decisions and order. The findings, decision and
order shall include the hearing officer's findings of fact, a decision whether
or not a violation exists based upon the finding of fact, and sanctioning the
person in charge or Owner as specified in subsection (D) below, or dismissing
the case in the event a violation is not proved.
   D.   If the hearing officer makes a finding that a property was, or is, a
nuisance property, he or she may fine the person in charge or the Owner of the
property if the Owner is different than the person in charge, not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation of this article. Each
day a nuisance activity occurs or continues shall be considered a separate and
distinct violation. The hearing officer may, at his or her discretion, impose
such a fine for each day the nuisance activity goes unabated. (Ord. 2025-10, 2-
17-2025)
6-9-6: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any property within the Village to become or
remain a chronic nuisance property in violation of this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any Owner, agent, management company, or
operator of any residential property to:
      1.   Permit a property to become a chronic nuisance property; or
      2.   Allow a property to continue as a chronic nuisance property.
   C.   Each day that a violation of this chapter continues shall be considered
a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 2025-10, 2-17-2025)
CHAPTER 10
PROHIBITED USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-10-1: Definitions
6-10-2: Prohibited Use Of Motor Vehicles
6-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
DRIFTING: A driving technique in which the driver of a motor vehicle on any
street, highway or other public way, or anywhere else within the Village, in
the absence of an emergency, either:
   A.   Causes the vehicle to spin, skid, slide, turn abruptly or sway upon
acceleration or braking; or
   B.   Uses or controls the vehicle's throttle, brakes, clutch, gear shifting,
steering input or other driving mechanisms, in any combination, to keep the
vehicle in a state of oversteer while maneuvering the vehicle from turn to
turn, or in circles, or in a figure eight, in a manner such that:
      1.   The rear slip angle of the wheels is greater than the front slip
angle, and the front wheels are pointing in the opposite direction of the turn
(e.g. the vehicle is turning left, wheels are pointed right);
      2.   The vehicle slides sideways through the turn(s);
      3.   The amount of counter steer (or opposite lock) coupled with the
simultaneous modulation of the vehicle's throttle and brakes shifts the weight
balance of the vehicle back and forth through the turn(s);
      4.   Any or all of the vehicle's tires lose traction or grip on the road;
and/or
      5.   An audible squeak or squeal sound coming from the vehicle's wheel
area occurs when the vehicle is in motion or when the brakes are applied.
OWNER: A motor vehicle is the record title holder with the Secretary of State
and includes a lessee.
STREET SIDESHOW: An event in which one or more vehicles block or impede traffic
on a street or highway, or anywhere else within the Village, for the purpose of
performing or facilitating unauthorized motor vehicle stunts, motor vehicle
speed contests or motor vehicle exhibitions of speed, including, but not
limited to, drag racing and drifting. (Ord. 2025-36, 7-21-2025)
6-10-2: PROHIBITED USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any way as to be drifting or
creating a street show.
   B.   The custodian, owner or lessee shall not permit a motor vehicle to be
used in drifting or operated in a street show.
   C.   The Owner of a motor vehicle used in violation of this Chapter shall be
subject to a penalty and administrative tow including all towing and storage
fees.
   D.   The Owner of a motor vehicle used to break or impede traffic for
purposes of facilitating a street show shall be subject to a penalty and
administrative tow including all towing and storage fees.
   E.   Any participant, observer or person is prohibited from rendering
assistance to the use of a motor vehicle for drifting or a side show and shall
be subject to a fine. (Ord. 2025-36, 7-21-2025)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Adoption Of Illinois Vehicle Code
7-1-3: Compliance Required
7-1-4: Obedience To Police Officers
7-1-5: Officers And Employees To Obey Code, Exceptions
7-1-6: Fire Department Authority
7-1-7: Bicycles Or Animals, Compliance
7-1-8: Unattended Animals
7-1-9: Property Owners' Rights
7-1-10: Injurious Deposits On Thoroughfares
7-1-11: Toy Vehicles
7-1-12: Driver And Passenger Required To Use Safety Belts
7-1-13: Left Hand Turns
7-1-14: Traffic Control Devices
7-1-15: No Right Turn On Red Signal Intersections
7-1-16: Motorized Scooter/Skateboard
7-1-17: Pedestrian Use Of Public Roadways
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this title, shall, for the
purposes of this title, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
section, except when the context otherwise requires and except where another
definition set forth in another section of this title and applicable to that
section or a designated part thereof is applicable:
   ALLEY: A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Emergency vehicles of village departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the fire department and ambulances.
   BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is more than sixteen inches
(16") in diameter.
   BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory within the village, contiguous to and
including a highway when within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway
there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including, but
not limited to, hotels, banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public
buildings which occupy at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one
side or three hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
   CROSSWALK: A. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway;
   B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   DRIVER'S LICENSE/PRIVILEGE TO DRIVE: Any driver's license or any other
license or permit to operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of the state
of Illinois including:
   A.   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
   B.   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle whether or not
such person holds a valid license or permit;
   C.   Any nonresident's driving privilege as defined herein.
   EXPLOSIVES: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb.
   FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flashpoint of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by Tagliabue or equivalent closed cup
test device.
   HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular traffic.
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY: Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone or gravel.
   INTERSECTION:
   A.    The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two
(2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict;
   B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection;
   C.   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not constitute
an intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb, reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   MERGING TRAFFIC: A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on
converging roadways to permit entry into the junction thereof, wherein the
driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular speed and
lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle.
   METAL TIRES: Every tire the surface of which is in contact with the roadway
is wholly or partially of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled but not operated upon
rails. For this title, motor vehicles are divided into two (2) divisions:
   A.   First Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten (10) persons.
   B.   Second Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten (10) persons, those designed or used for living quarters and
those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or
cargo, and those motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and
used as motor vehicles of the second division.
   MOTORIZED SCOOTER/SKATEBOARD: Any electric or gas driven wheeled scooter,
motor driven cycle or other similar motor driven vehicle for which the state of
Illinois does not issue a title document and does not issue license plates or
registration documents.
   NONRESIDENT: Every person who is not a resident of this state.
   OWNER: A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is a subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the condition stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of such motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
   PARKING, STOPPING OR STANDING: The halting or standing of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
   PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support
the load.
   POLE TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole,
or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and ordinarily
used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes or
structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams
between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular traffic by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PROPERTY LINE: The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   REGISTRATION: The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of this state pertaining to the registration of
vehicles.
   RESIDENT:
   A.    Every natural person who resides in this state shall be deemed a
resident of this state.
   B.   In the case of a firm, copartnership or association, if the principal
place of business of such firm, copartnership or association is located in the
state of Illinois, then such firm, copartnership or association shall be deemed
a resident of the state of Illinois.
   C.   In the case of a corporation, if the corporation was incorporated under
the laws of the state of Illinois or if the principal place of business of such
corporation shall be deemed a resident of the state of Illinois.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
   SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle of the second division owned or operated by
or for a public or governmental agency or by or for a private or religious
organization for the transportation of pupils in connection with any school
activity. This definition does not include a bus operated by a public utility
or a municipal corporation authorized to conduct local or interurban
transportation of passengers.
   SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rest upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
   STOP: When required, means complete cessation from movement.
   STREET: The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY: Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from the intersecting highways is required by law to yield right of way
to vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign.
   TOY VEHICLES: Skates, coasters, wagons, sleds, rollerblades, skateboards or
nonmotorized scooters.
   TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for the
purpose of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any official traffic control device, whether
manually, electrically or mechanically operated by which traffic is alternately
directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
   TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   TRUCK TRAILER: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of
one-quarter (1/4) mile or more.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. For this title, vehicles are
divided into two (2) divisions:
   A.   First Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten (10) persons.
   B.   Second Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten (10) persons, those designed or used for living quarters and
those vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo,
those motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor
vehicles of the second division, and those motor vehicles of the first division
used and registered as school buses.
   YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign authorized by
ordinance, means the act of granting the privilege of the immediate use of the
intersecting roadway to traffic within the intersection and to vehicles
approaching from the right or left, but when the roadway is clear, may proceed
into the intersection. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 2011-08, 7-
11-2011)
7-1-2: ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE 1 :
Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-204 of the Illinois vehicle
code, the village of West Dundee hereby adopts and incorporates by reference
all paragraphs and sections of the Illinois vehicle code and subsequent
amendments in whole. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
7-1-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to
particular offenses, it is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden
or fail to perform any act required in this title. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-1-4: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS:
Members of the police department and special police assigned to traffic duty
are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions
of this title, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience may require,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order or direction of any police officer vested by law with
authority to direct, control or regulate traffic. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-1-5: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY CODE, EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon
the highways shall apply to drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the
United States, this state or any county, city, town, district or any other
political subdivision of this state, except exceptions as set forth in this
title with reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   B.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   C.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park, stop or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      3.   Exceed the maximum speed limit so long as he does not endanger life
or property;
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   D.   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle, other
than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion or a visual signal.
   E.   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-1-6: FIRE DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY:
The fire department officer in command, or any firefighter designated by him,
may execute the powers and authority of a police officer in directing traffic
at the scene of any fire or where the fire department has responded to an
emergency call for so long as fire department equipment is on the scene in the
absence of or in assisting the police. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-1-7: BICYCLES OR ANIMALS, COMPLIANCE:
Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions of this title
which by their nature can have no application. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-1-8: UNATTENDED ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended or
allow other animals to roam in any street without having such animal securely
fastened or accompanied by a driver. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-1-9: PROPERTY OWNERS' RIGHTS:
Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent the owner of real property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of the owner
and not as matter of right from prohibiting such use, or from requiring other
or different or additional conditions than those specified in this title, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such owner. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
7-1-10: INJURIOUS DEPOSITS ON THOROUGHFARES:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to deposit in, on or about any
public way: weeds, papers, trash, garbage or other offensive matter such as
cans, glass, bottles, nails or tacks, or similar materials. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
7-1-11: TOY VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, coasters, wagons, sleds,
rollerblades, skateboards, nonmotorized scooters or other toy vehicles to go
upon any roadway, other than at a crosswalk. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004
Code)
7-1-12: DRIVER AND PASSENGER REQUIRED TO USE SAFETY BELTS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases when used in this chapter
shall, for the purpose of this chapter have the meanings respectively ascribed
to them in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.: "driver", "motor
vehicle", "passenger car", "motorcycle", "operator" or "roadway".
   B.   Violations, Exceptions, Penalties, Applicability: Each driver and front
seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated on a roadway in this village shall
wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat belt; except that a child less than
eight (8) years of age shall be protected as required pursuant to the Illinois
child passenger protection act 1 . Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting
a child eight (8) years of age or more, but less than sixteen (16) years of
age, in any seat of a motor vehicle shall secure the child in a properly
adjusted and fastened safety belt. (Ord. 02-02, 1-7-2002; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
7-1-13: LEFT HAND TURNS:
Traffic entering State Route 31 from the Century Plaza driveway access point
shall not be permitted to execute a left hand turn onto southbound State Route
31. (Ord. 92-20, 12-21-1992)
Any construction traffic entering Tartans Drive from any driveway access for
the commercial development currently known as the Tartans Crossing Center shall
not be permitted to execute a left turn onto southbound Tartans Drive. (Ord.
04-18, 8-16-2004)
7-1-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Placement: Local authorities and road district highway commissioners in
their respective maintenance jurisdiction shall place and maintain such traffic
control devices upon highways under their maintenance jurisdiction as are
required to indicate and carry out the provisions of this title, and local
traffic ordinances or to regulate, warn or guide traffic. All such traffic
control devices shall conform to the state manual and specifications and shall
be justified by traffic warrants stated in the manual.
   B.   Display:
      1.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway
any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic
or the effectiveness of any traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
      2.   No person may place or maintain nor may any public authority permit
upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising.
      3.   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is a public nuisance
and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is empowered to remove
the same or cause it to be removed without notice. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
      4.   No person shall sell or offer for sale or use any traffic control
device on any street or highway which does not conform to the requirements of
this title. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
      5.   No person shall use any device which is capable of changing the
operation of traffic signals. (2004 Code)
      6.   The intersection of Lincoln Ave and Geneva St is hereby designated
as an all-way stop intersection. (Ord. 2020-32, 10-19-2020)
   C.   Interference: No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or
in fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic
control device or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or
insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
   D.   Unlawful Possession Of Signs: The police department and local
authorities, with reference to traffic control signs, signals or markers owned
by said department or local authority, are authorized to indicate the ownership
of the signs, signals or markers on the backs of such devices in letters not
less than three-eighths inch (3/8") nor more than three-fourths inch (3/4") in
height, by use of a metal stamp, etching or other permanent means and, except
for employees of the department or local authorities, police officers,
contractors and their employees engaged in highway construction contract work
on the highway approved by the department or local authority, it is a
misdemeanor for any person to possess such sign, signal, or marker so
identified. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-1-15: NO RIGHT TURN ON RED SIGNAL INTERSECTIONS:
Any traffic northbound on Carrington Drive shall not be permitted to execute a
right turn on a steady red signal onto eastbound Illinois Route 72. (Ord. 05-
21, 7-18-2005)
7-1-16: MOTORIZED SCOOTER/SKATEBOARD:
   A.   Operation On Public Ways: No person shall operate a motor driven
scooter or skateboard upon any public street, sidewalk, alleyway or bike path,
or within any public parking lot or park or on any other public property.
   B.   Permitting Operation On Public Ways: No person shall cause, authorize
or knowingly permit a motor driven cycle or skateboard owned by him or under
his control to be operated in violation of the provisions of subsection A of
this section by any person.
   C.   Exemptions: The following shall be exempt from the prohibitions
contained in this section:
      1.   Any police vehicle, fire vehicle, municipal vehicle, special
district vehicle or county vehicle operated by an employee in the course of his
or her duties.
      2.   Motorized wheelchairs. For the purposes of this section, a
"motorized wheelchair" means any motorized vehicle designed for and used by a
person with disabilities.
      3.   Electric personal assistance mobility devices as defined in section
5/1-117.7 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 2011-08, 7-11-2011)
7-1-17: PEDESTRIAN USE OF PUBLIC ROADWAYS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words when used in this chapter shall, for
the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.: “roadway,” “shoulder,” or
“crosswalk.” Furthermore, for the purpose of this chapter, the term “median”
shall refer to that portion of a roadway between lanes of traffic flowing in
opposite directions.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian, unless otherwise permitted
by Illinois law or Village of West Dundee Municipal Code, to go upon any of the
following roadways, other than at a crosswalk: Illinois State Route 31 (8th
Street); Illinois State Route 72 (Main Street); Randall Road; and Huntley Road.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian, unless otherwise permitted
by Illinois law or Village of West Dundee Municipal Code, to loiter upon or
traverse the median or shoulder area on any of the following roadways: Illinois
State Route 31 (8th Street); Illinois State Route 72 (Main Street); Randall
Road; and Huntley Road.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian, unless otherwise permitted
by Illinois law or Village of West Dundee Municipal Code, to transfer or
receive, or attempt to transfer or receive, any item from the driver or
passenger of a vehicle while said vehicle is on any of the following roadways
or on an intersecting roadway within twenty-five feet (25') of any intersection
with the following roadways: Illinois State Route 31 (8th Street); Illinois
State Route 72 (Main Street); Randall Road; and Huntley Road. (Ord. 2025-12, 3-
3-2025)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING, STOPPING OR STANDING ON ROADWAY
SECTION:
7-2-1: General Provisions
7-2-2: Prohibited In Specified Places
7-2-3: Parallel Or Angle Parking
7-2-4: Parking After A Snowfall
7-2-5: Emergency Parking Restrictions
7-2-6: Signs To Be Posted
7-2-7: Removal Of Illegally Parked Vehicles
7-2-8: Streets, Restricted Parking
7-2-9: Parking Vehicles For Sale; Peddling Merchandise
7-2-10: Overnight Parking Permits; Public Parking Lots
7-2-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Clear Passage Required: Upon any highway outside of a business or
residence district no person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle,
whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part of the
highway when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off such
part of said highway, but in every event a clear and unobstructed width of the
highway opposite such standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of
other vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from
a distance of two hundred feet (200') in each direction upon said highway.
   B.   Authority Of Village: The Village shall have the authority to prohibit
such stopping, standing or parking of vehicles or to prescribe time limits for
parking on any street or highway under the control and jurisdiction of the
Village or for the maintenance of which the Village is responsible, in such
manner as it shall be necessary to promote public convenience and safety and so
as to facilitate traffic. Any such regulations adopted by the Village regarding
the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles upon any specific street, streets
or highways shall become effective on and after the date of the erection of
appropriate signs indicating such regulations.
   C.   Disabled Vehicles Excepted: This section shall not apply to the driver
of any vehicle which is disabled while on the paved or main traveled portion of
a highway in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid
stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position;
provided, however, that at least one door of any motor vehicle permitted to
stand unattended on the paved or main traveled part of any highway shall be
left unlocked. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-2-2: PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
No person shall park, stand or stop a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   A.   On a sidewalk.
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.   Within an intersection.
   D.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   E.   On a crosswalk.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   G.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   H.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless
the Village indicates, on highways under their respective jurisdiction, a
different length by signs or markings.
   I.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
   J.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
parking would obstruct traffic.
   K.   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
   L.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel.
   M.   At any place where official signs or yellow curb markings prohibit
parking.
   N.   At any place where the standing of a vehicle would reduce the usable
width of the roadway from moving traffic to less width than eighteen feet
(18'). (amd. 2004 Code)
   O.   On any unimproved surface not consisting of village of West Dundee
approved asphalt, concrete, brick, or other similar impervious surface. (Ord.
2013-04, 3-4-2013)
   P.   On any driveway apron. Driveway apron is defined as that portion of the
driveway located between the sidewalk and the street, parking parallel to
street on any driveway apron.
   Q.    No Parking on Private Property Without Owner’s Consent: It shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle, trailer, or boat on private property without the
consent of the owner of the property. Any person, firm or corporation violating
this provision shall be fined seventy five dollars ($75.00) payable to the
Village within ten (10) days. If the violation is not paid, the sum shall
increase to one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd.
Ord. 2013-04, 3-4-2013; Ord. 2019-24, 10-21-2019; Ord. 2022-24, 8-15-2022)
7-2-3: PARALLEL OR ANGLE PARKING:
Except when necessary, in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or
signals, the operator of a vehicle shall not stop, stand or park such vehicle
in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of a roadway, headed in the
direction and with the curb side wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches
(12") of the edge of the roadway, except as follows:
   A.   Upon those streets which have been marked or signed for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks or
signs.
   B.   The village board shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall
be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets or cause the same to be signed
or marked.
   C.   The village board is authorized to designate loading zones such as will
not unnecessarily interfere with traffic. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-2-4: PARKING AFTER A SNOWFALL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park or
cause to be parked any vehicle on any public street within the corporate limits
of the village at any time after a snowfall of two inches (2") or more has
occurred, unless said public street has been cleared of snow and snow removal
operations have been completed.
   B.   The police department and all members thereof are hereby authorized to
remove and tow away or have removed and towed away, any car or other vehicle
illegally parked which prevents or obstructs snow removal from public streets.
   C.   Cars or vehicles so towed away for illegal parking shall be stored in a
pound designated by the police department and shall be restored to the owner or
operator of such vehicle upon the payment of all towing and storage fees. (2004
Code)
7-2-5: EMERGENCY PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street, roadway,
alleyway or accessway on which a temporary prohibited parking sign shall have
been placed, where said sign shall have been placed at both ends of the block
where said parking is prohibited, and on the side or sides where said street,
roadway, alleyway, accessway or parking lot on which said parking is
prohibited, and, finally, where said sign shall have been placed not later than
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the day on which the prohibited parking shall
commence and where said prohibited parking shall become effective after said
signs have been in place for six (6) hours.
   B.   Said temporary prohibited parking shall continue in full force and
effect until such sign shall have been removed by the director of public works
or the chief of police for the village.
   C.   The locations where said temporary prohibited parking sign shall be
placed shall be determined where emergency or extraordinary conditions exist
and are declared by the village president or the village chief of police. In
such event, the said village president or the chief of police shall direct the
director of public works or chief of police to install said signs in the manner
hereinbefore set forth.
   D.   Each sign so placed shall clearly state "Temporary Prohibited Parking"
pursuant to authorization of the village president or the chief of police due
to emergency or extraordinary conditions pursuant to this section. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
7-2-6: SIGNS TO BE POSTED:
The director of public works shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where
parking is limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-2-7: REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such officer is authorized
to move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved or main
traveled part of such highway.
   B.   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety, at the expense of the owner, any unattended,
abandoned or disabled vehicle left standing upon any highway, bridge, or street
in such a position or under such circumstances as to obstruct the normal
movement of traffic, or any vehicle left unattended on any highway and within
the corporate limits of the village for a period of twenty four (24) hours or
more. The same authority is also granted regarding any vehicle found upon any
highway when:
      1.   Report has been made that such vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner, or
      2.   The person or persons in charge of such vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal, or
      3.   The person driving or in control of such vehicle is arrested for an
alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the person
arrested before a proper judicial officer without unnecessary delay, or
      4.   Any police officer finds a vehicle unattended constituting an
obstruction to traffic or the use of driveways, sidewalks and other public
places in the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-2-8: STREETS, RESTRICTED PARKING:
The following restrictions shall not apply to emergency vehicles:The following
restrictions shall not apply to emergency vehicles:
Street/Area Times
Street/Area                             Times
All village streets                     2:00 A.M. to 6:00 A.M., prohibited
                                        November 1 to April 1 annually
Boncosky Road, both sides between Route Prohibited at all times
31 and Frontenac Drive
Browning Avenue, south side             Prohibited at all times
Dunning Avenue, south side, between
South First Street and South Third      Prohibited at all times
Street
Edwards Avenue (east of South First     Prohibited at all times
Street), north side
Edwards Street, north side, when posted 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M., prohibited on
                                        days school is in session
Fay Avenue, south side                  Prohibited at all times
Hawley Avenue, south side               Prohibited at all times
Maiden Lane, north side                 Prohibited at all times
North Beacon Street between Willow Lane
and the intersection of Chateau Bluff   Prohibited at all times
and South Beacon Street
Oregon Avenue, north and south sides,
from Eighth Street (Route 31) and
extending 30 feet east of Route 31 on   Prohibited at all times
the south side and 60 feet east of
Route 31 on the north side
Parking lots, all public                2:00 A.M. to 5:00 A.M., prohibited
Riverside Avenue, north side            Prohibited at all times
Route 31, otherwise known as Eighth
Street, from the southern corporate     Prohibited at all times
limits of the village to the northern
corporate limits of the village
Route 72, a single diagonal parking
space located midway between First and  8:00 A.M. to 8:00 P.M., 15 minute
Second Streets south along the rear
entrances
Route 72, for the first 2 parking
spaces north, on the west side of First 8:00 A.M. to 8:00 P.M., 15 minute
Street
Route 72, for the fourth parking spaces
south, on the west side of Second
Street and the fifth parking space      8:00 A.M. to 8:00 P.M., 15 minute
south, on the east side of Second
Street
Route 72, otherwise known as Main
Street, from the eastern corporate      Prohibited at all times
limits of the Village to the western
corporate limits of the Village
Strom Drive, both sides, between
Edwards Avenue and Eighth Street (Route Prohibited at all times
31)
Strom Drive, north side, between        Prohibited at all times
Dunning Street and Edwards Avenue
Village Quarter Road, east side, from
the south right-of-way of Route 72 to a Prohibited at all times
point 590 feet south
Village Quarter Road, west side, from
the south right-of-way of Route 72 to a Prohibited at all times
point 1,037 feet south
Washington Street from First Street to  5:00 A.M. to 2:00 A.M., no limit; 2:00
Second Street                           A.M. to 5:00 A.M., prohibited
First and Second, the 4 parking spaces
located midway between those streets,   Designated as 30 minute parking spaces
south of Route 72 along the rear        between 8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M.
entrances
First and Second, the 6 parking spaces
located midway between those streets,   Designated as 30 minute parking spaces
north of Route 72 along the rear        between 8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M.
entrances
First and Second Street, the 2 parking
spaces located midway between those     Designated as 30 minute parking spaces
streets, on the north side of Route 72, between 8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M.
west of the crosswalk along the rear
entrances
First Street, both sides south, from a
point 75 feet south of the curb line of Prohibited at all times
Fox Avenue, to the south end of south
First Street, including the cul-de-sac
Second Street between Route 72 and      2 hour time limit between 8:00 A.M. and
Oregon, all on street parking spaces    6:00 P.M. Monday through Friday
Second Street between Route 72 and      2 hour time limit between 8:00 A.M. and
Washington, all on street parking       6:00 P.M. Monday through Friday
spaces
Third Street between Route 72 and
Washington Street, permitted to be
blocked and utilized for private valet
parking services subject to a written   Friday and Saturday evenings
agreement between the Village of West
Dundee and the valet service, and proof
of insurance
Fifth Street, east side, from 120 feet  8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M., prohibited on
south of South Street to such areas as  days school is in session
posted
Fifth Street, west side, and Oregon     Prohibited at all times except Sunday
Street
                                        No parking, stopping, standing or drop
Fifth Street on both sides, North of    off on this side of the street from 7:
South Street for 75 feet                00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 1:00 P.M. to
                                        3:00 P.M. on school days
South Street, on both the North and     No parking, stopping, standing or drop
South sides and East and West of Fifth  off on this side of the street from 7:
street for 100 feet                     00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 1:00 P.M. to
                                        3:00 P.M. on school days
Fifth Street, on the West side between  No parking, stopping, standing or drop
South Street and Lisa Road for the      off on this side of the street from 7:
entire length, and on the East side     00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 1:00 P.M. to
from South Street to the Dundee         3:00 P.M. on school days
Highlands Elementary School driveway
Fifth Street, South of Lisa Road on the No parking, stopping, standing or drop
West side for 180 feet, and on the East off on this side of the street from 7:
side from the Dundee Highlands          00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 1:00 P.M. to
Elementary School driveway, 100 feet to 3:00 P.M. on school days
the South
Edwards Avenue on the North side, from  No parking, stopping, standing or drop
the Dundee Highlands Elementary School  off on this side of the street from 7:
parking lot, 100 feet to the West, and  00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 1:00 P.M. to
on the South side from Ryan Lane for    3:00 P.M. on school days
180 feet to the west.
Edwards Avenue on the South side, the   No parking, stopping, standing or drop
entire length between Ryan Lane and     off on this side of the street from 7:
Third Street, and on Ryan Lane South of 00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 1:00 P.M. to
Edwards Avenue, on both the East and    3:00 P.M. on school days
West sides for 100 feet
 
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 93-17, 10-18-1993; Ord. 94-1, 1-17-1994; Ord.
96-2, 2-17-1996; Ord. 03-24, 6-2-2003; 2004 Code; Ord. 07-01, 1-8-2007; Ord.
07-15, 5-21-2007; Ord. 07-20, 6-18-2007; Ord. 08-10, 3-3-2008; Ord. 08-32, 7-7-
2008; Ord. 09-14, 4-6-2009; Ord. 2015-04, 2-2-2015; Ord. 2016-02, 2-1-2016;
Ord. 2016-03, 2-1-2016; Ord. 2016-32, 11-7-2016; Ord. 2023-36, - - )
7-2-9: PARKING VEHICLES FOR SALE; PEDDLING MERCHANDISE:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale or to park any vehicle upon any residential or business
street for the purpose of peddling merchandise from said vehicle. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
7-2-10: OVERNIGHT PARKING PERMITS; PUBLIC PARKING LOTS:
   A.   No overnight parking shall be permitted in public parking lots without
a Village issued overnight parking permit.
   B.   Permits will only be issued to vehicles registered to a property
adjacent to the public lot. Appeals and special permit requests can be directed
to the Police Chief, Village Manager, and Village Board (or their designees)
and issued at their discretion, when warranted.
   C.   The cost for an overnight parking permit shall be twenty dollars
($20.00). Overnight parking permits are valid for a one year period which shall
run May 1st through April 30th.
   D.   Overnight parking permits shall be placed in the rear window on the
driver's side of the vehicle.
   E.   Winter parking parameters during and following a snow event:
      1.   South lot: Parking will only be allowed on the east side of the lot.
      2.   North lot: Parking will only be allowed adjacent to the dumpster
enclosure east of Emmett's and behind the Village Squire.
   F.   Overnight parking permits may be rescinded for a violation of any of
the regulations outlined in this section. (Ord. 2017-03, 1-13-2017)
CHAPTER 3
TRUCKS; BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Truck Restriction
7-3-2: Limited Load Streets
7-3-3: Bus Stops And Taxicab Stands
7-3-1: TRUCK RESTRICTION:
It shall be unlawful to drive any truck, except for the purpose of making a
delivery and then for one block only, on any street so designated by ordinance
and properly signposted. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-3-2: LIMITED LOAD STREETS:
   A.   Notwithstanding the load limitations specified for streets in the
business district and residential district, and any lower limits that are
imposed by ordinance and signs indicating such limitations, it shall be
unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except
for the purpose of making delivery or picking up a load, in which case such
vehicle may be driven upon such street for not more than the minimum distance
necessary for the purpose.
   B.   Any second division vehicle designed for pulling a semitrailer and any
semitrailer which is operated or parked on a street in a residential district
is presumed to be in violation of this section. The presumption may be rebutted
by positive evidence showing that the operator of said vehicle falls within the
exception outlined in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
7-3-3: BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS:
   A.   The village board is hereby authorized and required to establish bus
stops and taxicab stands on such public streets, in such places and in such
manner as they shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to
the public, and every bus stop or taxicab stand shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating, or controlling a
taxicab to permit the same to stand or be parked in any restricted parking area
at any time which such taxicab is not occupied by the driver thereof. (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
7-4-1: Crosswalks
7-4-2: Traffic Lanes
7-4-3: Fines
7-4-4: Arrests
7-4-5: Tickets
7-4-6: Parking Violations
7-4-1: CROSSWALKS:
The village board is hereby authorized to establish and to designate and shall
thereafter maintain, or cause to be maintained, by appropriate devices, marks
or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and to mark
dangerous street intersections. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-4-2: TRAFFIC LANES:
The village board is authorized to mark or cause to be marked, lanes for
traffic on street pavements at such places as are consistent with provisions of
this title. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-4-3: FINES:
Any person violating any provision of this title, for which no fine is provided
elsewhere in this title, shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. When a person is convicted of violating any provision of
this title for the third time within a period of twelve (12) months, the court
may also suspend, for not more than one year, the person's driver's license,
and in such case the clerk of the court shall send a certified copy of the same
to the secretary of state. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
7-4-4: ARRESTS:
Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this title, except for
parking rule violations, shall be released upon proper bail being furnished as
required by statute. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-4-5: TICKETS:
For offenses other than violations of parking rules, police officers, after
making note of the license number of the vehicle and name of the offender,
where possible, may issue a traffic violation ticket, notifying the offender to
appear in court at the time designated for hearing such cases. Such officer may
sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if the offender does not appear
at the time and place so specified. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
7-4-6: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Fine: Any person accused of violating any parking regulations of this
title may settle and compromise the claim against him for said violation by
paying to the village the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) within ten (10)
days. If the violation is not paid, the sum shall increase to fifty dollars
($50.00), and shall be due in ten (10) days. Such payment may be made at the
police department and a receipt shall be issued for all money so received. Such
money shall be promptly turned over to the collector to be used in the manner
provided for the disposition of fines for traffic violations. Members of the
police department are hereby authorized to refrain from instituting prosecution
for the alleged violation involved and for such a fine has been paid as
prescribed above.
This section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so that it obstructs
the entrance or exit of any place where police department and fire department
apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or it blocks an
emergency entrance in a hospital. Nor shall this section apply to any person
charged with parking a vehicle that entirely obstructs traffic in any street or
alley, or parking in such a way that reduces traffic on an arterial street to
one-way traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle illegally
parked at the request of any member of the police department. (2004 Code)
   B.   Person In Control Of Vehicle: The fact that an automobile which is
illegally parked is registered in the name of a person shall be considered
prima facie proof that such person was in control of the automobile at the time
of such parking. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED AND DERELICT VEHICLES; BOATS, TRAILERS, COMMERCIAL AND RECREATIONAL
VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Legislative Findings And Determination
7-5-3: Abandonment And Retention Of Derelict Vehicle Prohibited
7-5-4: Abandonment Of Motor Vehicle; Presumption
7-5-5: Retention Of Derelict Vehicle On Private Property; Presumption
7-5-6: Hazardous Dilapidated Motor Vehicle Prohibited
7-5-7: Retention Of Hazardous Dilapidated Vehicle On Private Property;
Presumption
7-5-8: Inoperable Motor Vehicle Prohibited
7-5-9: Retention Of Inoperable Motor Vehicle On Private Property; Presumption
7-5-10: Commercial/Recreational Vehicles, Boat And Trailer Regulations
7-5-11: License Required
7-5-12: Observance Of Violation; Notice Issuance
7-5-13: Nuisance Abatement; Investigation
7-5-14: Complaint Procedure Upon Failure To Comply With Abatement Notice
7-5-15: Removal Of Vehicle
7-5-16: Variance
7-5-17: Penalty
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle
incapable of being driven in its condition or any vehicle that has not been
moved or used for seven (7) consecutive days or more if located on private
property or for three (3) days or more if located on public property, and is
apparently deserted contrary to the public policy expressed in section 5/4-301
of the Illinois vehicle code.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for
hire or not for hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used for
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially. A limousine for purposes of this chapter
is considered a commercial vehicle.
   DERELICT VEHICLE: Any inoperable, unregistered, discarded motor vehicle,
regardless of title, having lost its character as a substantial property and
left unattended without justification on the owner's land contrary to the
public policy expressed in section 5/4-301 of the Illinois vehicle code.
   ESSENTIAL PART: Vehicle hulks, shells, chassis, frames, front end assemblies
(which may consist of headlight, grill, fender and hood), front clip (front end
assembly with cowl attached), rear clip (which may consist of quarter panels,
fenders, floor and top), doors, hatchbacks, fenders, cabs, cab clips, cowls,
hoods, trunk lids, deck lids, T-tops, sunroofs, moon roofs, astro roofs, seats,
aluminum wheels, engines and similar parts.
   HAZARDOUS DILAPIDATED MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle with any part, either
damaged, removed, or altered or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own motor power or, which by its general
state of deterioration, poses a threat to the public's health, safety and
welfare. This shall include vehicles that have broken glass or sharp parts/
objects attached. Vehicles that are inoperable on private property and still
have a fuel tank shall be considered hazardous dilapidated motor vehicles.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of
seven (7) days if located on private property and three (3) days on public
property, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the
engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power.
   OWNER: A person other than a lien holder having a property interest in or
title to a vehicle, boat, trailer, commercial vehicle or recreational vehicle.
The term includes a person entitled to the use or possession of a boat,
trailer, commercial vehicle or recreational vehicle, subject to an interest in
another person, reserved or created by agreement and securing payment or
performance of an obligation.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate or any other legal
entity, or their representative, agent or assigns.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses and/or vehicles with "RV" license plates. A recreational vehicle
shall include, but not be limited to, travel trailer, pickup camper, motorized
home and camping trailer.
   TRAILER: Every vehicle designed or utilized for the transportation of any
boat, automobile, snowmobile and the like, which does not have motor power, but
is designed to be drawn by another vehicle.
   VEHICLE: Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn, except devices moved by human power and devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-2: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION:
The board of trustees of the village of West Dundee, in keeping with the public
policy of the Illinois general assembly as found in section 5/4-301 of the
Illinois vehicle code, finds and determines that:
Abandoned, derelict, hazardous dilapidated and inoperable vehicles constitute a
safety hazard and a public nuisance; are detrimental to the health, safety and
welfare of the general public by harboring disease, providing breeding places
for vermin, inviting plundering, creating fire hazards, and presenting physical
dangers to children and others; produce scenic blights which degrade the
environment and adversely affect land values and the proper maintenance and
continuing development of the state of Illinois and all of its subdivisions;
represent a resource out of place and an energy loss to the Illinois economy,
and require state and local governmental attention, in conjunction with any
federal governmental attention, in order to assure the expeditious removal and
recycling of the abandoned and derelict vehicles. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-3: ABANDONMENT AND RETENTION OF DERELICT VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
No person shall abandon a vehicle or retain a derelict vehicle on public or
private property within the village of West Dundee. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-4: ABANDONMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE; PRESUMPTION:
The person to whom was last issued the certificate of title to the vehicle by
the secretary of state is presumed to be the person to have abandoned that
vehicle, but such presumption may be rebutted. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-5: RETENTION OF DERELICT VEHICLE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; PRESUMPTION:
The person who owns the property on which the derelict vehicle is retained or
who occupies the property on which the derelict vehicle is retained, or both,
is presumed to be the person responsible for disposing of the vehicle in a safe
and timely manner. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-6: HAZARDOUS DILAPIDATED MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
No person shall retain a hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle on public or
private property within the village of West Dundee. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-7: RETENTION OF HAZARDOUS DILAPIDATED VEHICLE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY;
PRESUMPTION:
The person who owns the property on which the hazardous dilapidated vehicle is
retained or who occupied the property on which the hazardous dilapidated
vehicle is retained, or both, is presumed to be the person responsible for
disposing of the vehicle in a safe and timely manner. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-8: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
No person shall retain an inoperable motor vehicle on public or private
property within the village of West Dundee. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-9: RETENTION OF INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; PRESUMPTION:
The person who owns the property on which the inoperable vehicle is retained or
who occupied the property on which the inoperable vehicle is retained, or both,
is presumed to be the person responsible for disposing of the vehicle in a safe
and timely manner.
   A.   Exception: If a derelict or inoperable vehicle is located within a
garage, the vehicle shall not be in violation of any section of this chapter,
provided that the residence maintains two (2) off street parking places as
required. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-10: COMMERCIAL/RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, BOAT AND TRAILER REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Conditions:
      1.   Dwelling Use: No boat, trailer, camper, commercial or recreational
vehicle shall be used as a dwelling, storage or an accessory building, nor set
up, occupied or used on private property for more than forty eight (48) hours.
      2.   Construction Use: A recreational vehicle may be used as a temporary
office or storage space incidental to construction of a building/development
for the period of time such construction is actively undertaken, provided such
vehicle is located on the same or contiguous lot as the building/development
under construction. In any instance involving construction use, a building
permit must first be acquired.
      3.   Flammable Liquids: The owner of a boat, trailer, commercial or
recreational vehicle shall not park, let stand or store such vehicle leaving
flammable liquids aboard other than in Illinois department of transportation
approved containers.
      4.   Dangerous Or Unsafe Storage: The owner of a boat, trailer,
commercial or recreational vehicle shall not park, let stand or store such
vehicle in such a manner as to create a dangerous or unsafe condition on the
property where parked, permitted to stand or be stored. Parking, standing or
storing the boat, trailer, commercial or recreational vehicle in such fashion
that such vehicle may tip or roll shall be considered a dangerous and unsafe
condition.
      5.   Street Parking: No boat, trailer, commercial vehicle or recreational
vehicle shall be permitted to park on any village street or parking lot between
the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. At no time
shall a boat or trailer be left upon a village street or parking lot unattached
to a motorized vehicle. At no time shall a boat, trailer or recreational
vehicle be allowed to park on any village street for more than forty eight (48)
hours even if attached to a motorized vehicle.
      6.   Proof Of Ownership: A legal or beneficial owner of, or lessee of the
property shall have and display upon request to authorized village officials,
proof of ownership of a parked, standing or stored boat, trailer, commercial or
recreational vehicle.
      7.   License Required: All boats, trailers, commercial or recreational
vehicles shall display current state license plates or other registration
certificates.
      8.   Dumping: Boats or recreational vehicles shall dump sewage only into
approved sanitary facilities.
   B.   Regulations: Outdoor parking of boats, trailers, commercial or
recreational vehicles on residential streets and driveways is prohibited in
residentially zoned districts except as allowed by the following conditions:
      1.   General Conditions:
         a.   Commercial Vehicles: No person shall stand or park any commercial
vehicle on any street or driveway within a residential dwelling district except
for the loading or unloading of such vehicle, except during and in connection
with actual rendering of service to or on behalf of the owner or occupant of a
premises within such district, or if the commercial vehicle's specifications
fall within the following conditions:
            (1)   The vehicle does not exceed the standards of a state of
Illinois license classification of "B" and does not exceed a gross vehicle
weight of eight thousand (8,000) pounds (including, but not limited to,
contractors' vans, mini school buses, pickup trucks, and smaller stake trucks)
but excluding tow trucks, which shall be prohibited.
            (2)   The vehicle is used for essential emergency twenty four (24)
hour service such as electrical, mechanical and plumbing contracting, and does
not exceed a state of Illinois licensure classification of "D" and does not
exceed a gross vehicle weight of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds, when the
vehicle is also the owner's principal means of transportation to and from their
place of employment; excluding tow trucks, which shall be prohibited.
         b.   Mobile Condition: A parked, standing or stored trailer, camper,
commercial vehicle or recreational vehicle shall be maintained in mobile
condition.
         c.   Temporary Loading/Parking: Boats, trailers and recreational
vehicles shall be permitted to be temporarily parked in the front driveway of
any residence for up to forty eight (48) hours within any fifteen (15) day
period to accommodate loading/unloading operations or minor repair/maintenance
work. These vehicles may also, upon advance request to the village, be parked
in the front driveway for up to seven (7) days to accommodate out of town
guests once every twelve (12) months.
         d.   Indoor Storage: A boat, trailer, camper, commercial or
recreational vehicle may be stored indoors provided that the residence
maintains two (2) off street spaces as required.
      2.   Number Of Vehicles: A total of no more than two (2) vehicles,
including boat/trailer combination, campers, other trailers, recreational
vehicles or commercial vehicles, snowmobiles or all-terrain vehicles, may be
stored on any residential lot. Kayaks, canoes, and rowboats shall not be
considered a boat for purposes of this section.
      3.   Front Yard Or Side Yard Of Corner Lot; Size And Location
Restrictions: No boat, trailer, camper, commercial or recreational vehicle
shall be allowed within any front yard, including the driveway, or side yard of
a corner lot except as provided in subsection B1c, "Temporary Loading/Parking",
of this section.
      4.   Motorized Recreational Vehicle; Size And Location Restrictions: A
motorized recreational vehicle shall not be stored in a front yard except on a
driveway which meets adopted driveway standards, and shall not exceed the
following dimensions and locations:
         a.   Height: Seven feet (7') excluding antenna.
         b.   Length: Twenty feet (20').
         c.   Width: Eight feet (8').
         d.   Setback: Fifteen feet (15') from the public right of way.
      5.   Side And Rear Yard; Size And Location Restrictions: A boat, trailer,
camper or recreational vehicle may be stored or parked in a side or rear yard
in a residential district provided that it does not exceed the following
dimensions and locations:
         a.   Height: Eleven feet (11') excluding antenna.
         b.   Length: Thirty feet (30'), including hitch, tongue and other
appendages.
         c.   Width: Eight feet (8') including attached hardware.
         d.   Rear yard: No closer than three feet (3') from the rear property
line.
         e.   Side yard: No closer than three feet (3') from the side property
line. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-11: LICENSE REQUIRED:
All motor vehicles, whether located on private or public property shall display
current state license plates or other registration certificates. (Ord. 2006-45,
8-17-2006)
7-5-12: OBSERVANCE OF VIOLATION; NOTICE ISSUANCE:
Any law enforcement official or community service officer of the village upon
observing any violation of sections
 7-5-3,
7-5-5 and
7-5-8 of this chapter shall: If located on private property attempt to issue a
notice in writing directed to: a) the owner of record of the property on which
a derelict or inoperable vehicle is retained or to the occupant of said
property, or to both, and/or b) the owner of record of the vehicle abandoned,
which said notice shall describe the violation and shall establish a reasonable
time limit for the abatement thereof by such owner or occupant which time shall
be no more than ten (10) days. If violation for section
7-5-3 or
7-5-8 of this chapter is located on public property and is not an immediate
hazard, parked illegally or obstructing traffic, notification shall be made in
the same manner as for a violation on private property with an abatement period
of not less than two (2) days nor more than three (3) days. If a violation on
public property is obstructing traffic or parked illegally the vehicle shall
immediately receive a citation and be towed. Notification of the violation will
then take place after the removal. Upon observing any violation of section
7-5-6 of this chapter or any violation which is deemed a hazard or obstructing
traffic the vehicle shall immediately be towed so that it may no longer pose a
threat to the public. Upon towing the vehicle, notice must be made the same day
to the registered owner of said vehicle.
   A.   If a vehicle is located within a garage, the vehicle shall not be in
violation of any section of this chapter, provided that the residence maintains
two (2) off street parking places as required. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-13: NUISANCE ABATEMENT; INVESTIGATION:
Immediately upon the termination of the time allowed in any such notice for the
abatement of such nuisance, the village official who served such notice, or any
other law enforcement official assigned, shall investigate to determine whether
or not such nuisance has been abated. If during the investigation it is
determined that the vehicle in violation of section
7-5-3,
7-5-5, or
7-5-8 of this chapter was moved from private property to public property in an
attempt to deflect responsibility of removal to the village, the investigating
officer shall issue a complaint with a court appearance to the owner of
property and/or registered owner of record of vehicle. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-
2006)
7-5-14: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE UPON FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ABATEMENT NOTICE:
In the event the owner of the vehicle and/or the owner or occupant of the
property fails within the prescribed time to abate such nuisance, then the
village official who investigated whether such nuisance has been abated, shall
issue an ordinance violation citation or file a complaint charging violation of
section
7-5-3,
7-5-5,
7-5-6, or
7-5-8 of this chapter with the circuit court for the sixteenth judicial
circuit.
   A.   The village maintains the right to have a vehicle towed from either
public or private property if the owner of the vehicle and/or property owner
refuses to have the vehicle removed in accordance with the time frame set forth
in section
7-5-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-15: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE:
When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is authorized
under any section of this chapter, the owner of the vehicle and/or the property
owner shall be responsible for all towing and storage costs. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-
17-2006)
7-5-16: VARIANCE:
Variances from the purpose of this chapter for circumstances where the lot or
physical configuration of the property preclude permitted storage pursuant to
this chapter may be considered. To be considered for a variance from this
regulation, the property owner must submit a written request, along with a plat
of survey to support this request, to the West Dundee police department. The
West Dundee police department will, within thirty (30) days, forward a
recommendation to the board of trustees in regards to this request. Any
variances granting relief from these provisions will be principally reviewed
and evaluated against the constraints of the property or structures located on
the property. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
7-5-17: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which the violation occurs or continues. The minimum fine shall be
doubled for each subsequent violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-
2006)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Supervision And Enforcement
8-1-2: Construction Permit; Application
8-1-3: General Construction Standards
8-1-4: Sidewalk Construction Standards
8-1-5: Construction Bonds; Indemnity
8-1-6: Certificates Of Insurance
8-1-7: Inspections
8-1-8: Repairs And Maintenance
8-1-9: Barricades
8-1-10: Poles And Wires; Limited Placement
8-1-11: Openings In Public Way; Permit
8-1-12: Fishing Area Restrictions
8-1-13: Downtown And Riverwalk Restrictions
8-1-14: Snow And Ice Removal
8-1-15: Street Lighting, Residential
8-1-16: Route 31 Development
8-1-17: Commercial Use Of Public Way Prohibited
8-1-18: Encroachments
8-1-19: Prohibited Acts
8-1-20: Penalty
8-1-21: Restoration Of Village Water Tower After Rust, Corrosion,
Deterioration, Paint Coating System Delamination Or Failure Caused By Third
Parties
8-1-1: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT:
All construction, maintenance, and repair of public streets, alleys, sidewalks,
driveway approaches and other public ways shall be under the supervision of the
director of public works. The director shall be charged with the enforcement of
all ordinance provisions relating to such public places (except traffic
ordinances) and is authorized to enforce such ordinances. (2004 Code)
8-1-2: CONSTRUCTION PERMIT; APPLICATION:
It is unlawful to construct or lay any pavement, including curb and gutter,
street, sidewalk, driveway approach, alley or other public way, or to repair
the same, without first having secured a permit therefor. Applications for such
permits shall be made to the director of public works and shall state the
location of the intended repair or construction, the extent thereof, and the
person or firm who is to do the actual construction work. No such permit shall
be issued except where the work will conform to the ordinances of the village.
(2004 Code)
8-1-3: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Subgrade: The subgrade shall be tamped or rolled until thoroughly
compacted and shall be constructed true to grade and cross section for the
bottom of the sidewalk and driveway.
   B.   Forms: All forms shall be set true to line and elevation, substantially
built and rigidly braced to prevent bulging. They shall be constructed of clean
lumber surfaced on four (4) sides and be uniform in width and thickness of
steel of equal rigidity.
   C.   Concrete: The sidewalk, driveway and driveway approach shall be
constructed of Portland cement concrete (air entrained Portland cement - 4
percent to 6 percent) as specified by the state department of transportation
specifications. The concrete mix shall be a minimum of five and one-half (51/2)
bags of Portland cement per cubic yard of concrete. The final surface of all
concrete sidewalk and driveway approaches shall have an appropriate sealant
applied as per the state specifications. All sidewalk and driveway surfaces
shall have a light brush finish.
   D.   Expansion Joints: Expansion joints three-fourths inch (3/4") thick
shall be placed at intervals of fifty feet (50') in the sidewalks, between
driveway pavement and sidewalk, driveway approaches and curbs, and sidewalk
approaches and curb. These expansion joints shall consist of premolded
bituminous joint filler. Expansion joints one-half inch (1/2") thick shall be
provided between the sidewalk and all structures such as streetlight standards,
traffic signal posts and signposts, etc., which are within the sidewalk. The
expansion joints shall consist of joint filler. (2004 Code)
8-1-4: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   All sidewalks shall be built and constructed of Portland cement
concrete and to a grade approved by the department of public works. Sidewalks
in residential areas shall be five inches (5") in thickness and four (4) or
five feet (5') in width. Sidewalks in nonresidential areas shall be at least
five inches (5") in thickness with width and location subject to approval by
the director of public works or his designee. A sidewalk crossing through a
driveway shall be at least six inches (6") in thickness.
   B.   Sidewalk ramps shall be constructed in conformance with the "American
Public Works Association Guidelines" at all crosswalks, driveway approaches,
and any other location. All sidewalk ramp locations shall be shown on the plans
with a typical detail for construction. (2004 Code)
8-1-5: CONSTRUCTION BONDS; INDEMNITY:
Each permit applicant shall obtain liability insurance, including minimum
limits as follows:
Contractor shall maintain limits no less than:
   A.   Commercial General Liability: One million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
combined single limit per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and
property damage. The general aggregate shall be twice the required occurrence
limit. Minimum general aggregate shall be no less than two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) or a project/contract specific aggregate of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00).
   B.   Business Automobile Liability: One million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
combined single limit per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
   C.   Workers' Compensation And Employers' Liability: Workers' compensation
coverage with statutory limits and employers' liability limits of one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per accident.
   D.   Builder's Risk (If Required): Shall insure against "all risk" of
physical damage, including water damage (flood and hydrostatic pressure not
excluded) on a completed value, replacement cost basis.
Each applicant shall insure the village and its agents, officers and employees,
for any loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of
doing the same, which insurance shall remain in full force and effect until
thirty (30) days after the completion of the work. All contractor applications
shall be governed by the applicable bond requirements pertaining to public
right of way work contained in the pertinent ordinances of the village. (2004
Code)
8-1-6: CERTIFICATES OF INSURANCE:
Each permit applicant for an exception pursuant to sections
8-1-10, 
8-1-11,
8-1-17 and
 8-1-18 of this chapter shall obtain and provide to the village, a certificate
of insurance, naming the village as additionally insured on a public liability
insurance policy which shall insure against all public risks related to the
use, maintenance, existence or location of the encroachment and shall consist
of comprehensive general liability for bodily injury, personal injury and
property damage for one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence, two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00) annual aggregate. (2004 Code)
8-1-7: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   An inspection is required after the forming and prior to the pouring of
any concrete for all work within the public right of way and other
construction. An inspection is also required during the filling and compaction
of any fill area within the public right of way and for parking lots.
   B.   Fees for inspections or reinspections where insufficient work has been
performed to make an inspection shall be as provided in section
9-2-1 of this code.
   C.   It shall be the contractor's responsibility to contact the department
of public works at least one business day in advance of a desired inspection
(excluding holidays). (2004 Code)
8-1-8: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks, and driveway approaches shall be kept in
good repair and shall be maintained in a safe, attractive and unobstructed
manner to assure the safe passage of pedestrians and vehicles. Such work shall
be under the supervision of the director of public works. (2004 Code)
8-1-9: BARRICADES:
   A.   Required: Any person, firm or corporation constructing or repairing any
pavement on a street, public sidewalk or other public place or making an
excavation within the public right of way, shall maintain suitable barricades
to prevent injury of any person or vehicle by reason of the work; such
barricades shall be illuminated with appropriate lights during periods of
darkness.
   B.   Disturbing: It is unlawful to remove, disturb or interfere with
barricades or lights lawfully placed to protect and mark any new pavement,
excavation, or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk within the
public right of way. (2004 Code)
8-1-10: POLES AND WIRES; LIMITED PLACEMENT:
It is unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or wires over any public place,
street, alley or other public way. Exceptions to this section may be made only
upon the written approval of the village board. Such permission shall not be
issued if the poles or wires interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic,
public utilities, or result in a safety hazard. (2004 Code)
8-1-11: OPENINGS IN PUBLIC WAY; PERMIT:
All presently maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable cover or
railing as approved by the director of public works. It is unlawful to
construct any opening or stairway in any public street, sidewalk or alley.
Exceptions to this section may be made only upon the written approval of the
director of public works. Such permit shall not be issued if the opening or
stairway interferes with pedestrian or vehicular traffic, public utilities, or
results in a safety hazard. (2004 Code)
8-1-12: FISHING AREA RESTRICTIONS:
It will be unlawful for any person to do, engage in or participate in the act
of fishing in any manner whatsoever by throw, cast, swing or otherwise propel
or suspend therefor any rope, string, line, pole, rod, stick or any similar
object or thing for any purpose whatsoever except in the case of a bona fide
emergency for the purpose of saving or preserving life or property or both
specifically in the following areas:
   A.   The Main Street Bridge (Illinois State Route 72).
   B.   The Fox River riverwall located along First Street from Second and
Washington, south to Main Street.
   C.   The hard surface areas of the West Dundee riverwalk.
      1.   Fishing is permitted on the riverwalk in those areas specifically
designated by signage.
   D.   The South End park bicycle/pedestrian bridge. (Ord. 97-05, 5-19-1997;
amd. 2004 Code)
8-1-13: DOWNTOWN AND RIVERWALK RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Bicycling, Rollerblading, And Skateboarding Prohibited: It shall be
prohibited for any person to operate, ride, or otherwise use or permit such
operation or use of a bicycle, skateboard, roller skates, rollerblades or any
other nonpedestrian means of transportation upon any portion of the following:
      1.   The hard surface walkways commonly known as the West Dundee
riverwalk located on the east side of Lincoln Avenue.
      2.   The public sidewalk on both the north and south sides of Illinois
State Route 72 from Second Street east to the village's corporate limits. (Ord.
97-05, 5-19-1997; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Restrictions On The Feeding Of Waterfowl: It shall be unlawful for any
person to do, engage in, or participate in the act of feeding waterfowl from
the West Dundee riverwalk area except for in the waters immediately adjacent to
the grassy area directly north of the Riverwalk plaza area and the Riverwalk
plaza area itself located at the intersection of Second Street and Lincoln
Avenue. (Ord. 98-28, 9-14-1998; amd. 2004 Code)
8-1-14: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
   A.   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or other person having charge of
any building or lot of ground in the village abutting upon any public way or
public place shall remove the snow and ice from the sidewalk in front of such
building or lot of ground. In case the snow or ice on the sidewalk shall be
frozen so hard that such snow or ice cannot be removed without injury to the
pavement, the person having charge of any building or lot of ground as
aforesaid shall, within the time specified, cause the sidewalk abutting on the
premises to be strewn with ashes, sand, sawdust or some similar suitable
material, and as soon thereafter as the weather shall permit, such person shall
thoroughly clean the sidewalk. (Ord. 98-28, 9-14-1998; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Public sidewalks shall be kept free of snow and ice. Snow accumulations
of two inches (2") or more of snow, sleet or freezing rain, shall be cleared
from public sidewalks within forty eight (48) hours of the onset of a snow
event. (2004 Code)
8-1-15: STREET LIGHTING, RESIDENTIAL:
   A.   A property owner shall request the director of public works to order
lights per plans submitted by such owner.
   B.   The director of public works shall order placement of lights from the
utility company having jurisdiction.
   C.   Said director of public works shall order lights placed on the site
upon receipt of payment by owner.
   D.   Decorative poles and luminaries shall consist of the following:
      1.   Luminary model #ALN610-H3, 150m watt, HPS lamp type.
      2.   Minimum two foot (2') diameter by three and one-half foot (31/2')
deep PC concrete foundation, four (4) 3/4-inch diameter by twenty four inches
(24") long plus three inch (3") hook fully galvanized anchor bolts, #4 bare cu.
ground conductor, vertical reinforcing bars and #2 horizontal tie rods twelve
inches (12") o.c., ground lug furnished with pole.
      3.   Northampton style pole minimum of a five inch (5") o.d. aluminum
shaft, modified base and shaft, base of twenty inches (20") plus or minus (+/-
) diameter, access door located in base secured with tamperproof hex socket
security machine screws.
      4.   Underground cable shall be suitable for wet locations.
   E.   Upon completion and acceptance of the installation, the village agrees
to pay for all electrical energy and maintain the installation.
   F.   Styles of lamps shall be determined according to specifications on file
in the office of the director of public works. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004
Code)
8-1-16: ROUTE 31 DEVELOPMENT:
Whenever any property shall be developed which has its boundaries on Route 31,
known as Eighth Street, the owner, developer or contractor shall abide by the
following provisions:
   A.   Dedicate sufficient land as the state of Illinois department of
transportation shall require, to provide:
      1.   A lane for traffic deceleration/acceleration.
      2.   All curb and gutter required to handle drainage.
      3.   Tree bank of a minimum of five feet (5') between curb and outside
edge of sidewalk.
   B.   Submit plans and apply for permit to the state of Illinois department
of transportation for all above work.
   C.   Construct improvements in accordance with plans and specifications
submitted and approved by the Illinois department of transportation.
   D.   Construct a sidewalk along the property line which is at least five
feet (5') from the curb line. Sidewalk construction shall be in accordance with
all village standards.
   E.   Landscape tree bank in accordance with all village standards.
   F.   All of the above provisions shall be complied with, and final
acceptance, in writing, shall be received from the state of Illinois department
of transportation prior to issuance of any occupancy permit. (Ord. 98-28, 9-14-
1998; amd. 2004 Code)
8-1-17: COMMERCIAL USE OF PUBLIC WAY PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street, sidewalk
or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise, or to
write or mark any sign or advertisement on any such pavement. Exceptions to
this section may be granted by written approval of the village board for a
maximum period of three (3) days except where otherwise allowed within this
code and shall not be issued if the use interferes with pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, public utilities, or results in a safety hazard. (2004 Code)
8-1-18: ENCROACHMENTS:
It is unlawful to erect or maintain any private building or structure which
encroaches upon any public right of way or property. Exceptions to this section
may be made only upon the written approval of the village board, and shall not
be issued if the structure or building interferes with pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, public utilities, or results in a safety hazard. (2004 Code)
8-1-19: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Damage To New Pavements: It is unlawful to walk or drive any vehicle or
animal upon, or damage any newly placed street or sidewalk pavement while the
same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade, or knowingly to damage any soft
or newly placed pavement.
   B.   Obstructions: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
cause, create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or
other public way, except as may be specified by ordinance or by written
authorization from the department of public works.
   C.   Drains; Obstruction: It is unlawful to obstruct any stormwater drain
within the public right of way. (2004 Code)
   D.   Deposits On:
      1.   Streets: It is unlawful for any person to deposit on any street,
sidewalk, or alley: dirt, mud, clay, cement, concrete, building materials,
gravel, stones, plant matter, snow, refuse or garbage, yard waste, grass
clippings, leaves, branches or other material deemed inappropriate. In the
event the person depositing such material fails to immediately remove and
properly dispose of the material, the director of public works may cause the
material to be removed. The cost of such removal and all expenses incurred in
connection therewith shall be assessed against and paid by the person
depositing the material. Assessment of costs against any person violating this
chapter shall not be construed as a waiver of the right of the village to
impose a fine pursuant to the terms of this code.
         a.   Leaf Collection: So long as the village maintains a curbside leaf
collection program, leaves may be deposited along the curb line in front of
residentially zoned properties, no greater than two feet (2') from the curb,
during the months of October and November only. Any placement of leaves or yard
waste on village streets outside of this time frame shall be deemed a violation
subject to the above remedies. (Ord. 2015-01, 1-5-2015)
      2.   Sidewalks: It is unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk or tree
bank materials which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or materials, or
articles which might cause injury to persons, animals, property or obstruct the
way of pedestrians. Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the sidewalk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4') in width; and provided, that no
such article shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour.
   E.   Burning Leaves And Rubbish: It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or other substances upon any of
the public streets, sidewalks or alleys in the village.
   F.   Unlawful Use, Damage To Public Ways: It shall be unlawful for any
person to wilfully injure or damage any public highway upon or used or
constructed in connection with any public highway or street for the protection
thereof or for protection or regulation of traffic thereon by any wilfully
unusual, improper or unreasonable use thereof, or by wilful careless driving or
use of any vehicle thereon, or by wilful mutilation, defacing or destruction
thereof. (2004 Code)
8-1-20: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation may be fined as provided in the general penalty
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
8-1-21: RESTORATION OF VILLAGE WATER TOWER AFTER RUST, CORROSION,
DETERIORATION, PAINT COATING SYSTEM DELAMINATION OR FAILURE CAUSED BY THIRD
PARTIES:
   A.   In the event that the installation of an antenna, telecommunications or
radio equipment, transmission lines or other equipment which is not owned by
the village (the "equipment") is attached to a water tower owned by the
village, has caused rust, corrosion, deterioration, paint coating system
delamination or failure, to such water tower, the owner of such equipment (the
"equipment owner") shall remove its equipment attached to the village water
tower, at the equipment owner's sole cost, upon thirty (30) days' written
notice from the village to the equipment owner to enable the village to access
and inspect the portion of the village's water tower affected by such rust,
corrosion, deterioration, paint coating system delamination or failure, and to
determine if any other portion of the village water tower for which it may not
have had access because of the presence of the equipment has also been
adversely affected by rust, corrosion, deterioration, paint coating system
delamination or failure, caused by the equipment. Such written notice by the
village to the equipment owner shall specify the date and subsequent interval
of time during which the equipment shall be removed from such water tower owned
by the village and for which the equipment shall remain removed from the
village water tower but which shall not exceed a one hundred a d twenty (120)
day interval. Time shall be of the essence relative to such requested removal
of the equipment. Beginning on the date and during the subsequent interval
during which the equipment has been removed from the water tower owned by the
village, the village may cause any rust, corrosion, deterioration, paint
coating system delamination or failure in or upon the water tower owned by the
village to be repaired, restored, resurfaced or painted.
   B.   In the event that the equipment owner undertakes to remove its
equipment on the village water tower prior to the date designated by the
village in the written notice to the equipment owner to remove the equipment
from the village water tower, any such action by the equipment owner shall not
relieve the equipment owner of the obligation to remove its equipment from the
water tower owned by the village on the designated date and during the interval
of time set forth in the notice sent from the village to the equipment owner
requesting such removal of the equipment from the village water tower. If the
equipment owner does not remove the equipment after being notified to do so, on
or after the date designated by the village, the village may remove the
equipment from the water tower owned by the village and the village shall be
reimbursed by the equipment owner for the cost incurred in removing the
equipment.
   C.   The equipment may be re-installed to the village water tower by the
equipment owner at the equipment owner's sole cost no later than one hundred
and twenty (120) days after the date designated for its removal and after the
village has had an opportunity to inspect the village water tower for any
corrosion, rust, deterioration, paint coating system delamination or failure,
as the case may be, and to enable the village water tower to be maintained,
repaired, repainted, treated or resurfaced or painted. The equipment owner
shall prepare and submit plans to the village identifying alternative equipment
installation methods so as to mitigate any further damage to the water tower
owned by the village in the future. The equipment owner shall reimburse the
village for the cost of repairing, restoring, resurfacing and any painting of
such portion of the village water tower for which its equipment has caused
rust, corrosion, deterioration, paint coating system delamination or failure.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other village ordinance which may be to the
contrary or provide otherwise, each day for which the equipment is not removed
after the village has sent notice to the equipment owner to remove its
equipment from the village's water tower, commencing upon the date designated
by the village for the removal of the equipment, shall constitute a separate
violation punishable by a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000) per day for
each day that the equipment is not removed from the village water tower plus
the village's reasonable attorney's fees and costs incurred by the village in
prosecuting any such action. In the event there is any inconsistency between
this provision and any provision of the village ordinance, the provision in
this section shall control, govern and prevail.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other village ordinance which may be to the
contrary or provide otherwise, each day for which the equipment is re-attached
or reinstalled after the village has sent notice to the equipment owner to
remove its equipment from the village's water tower, commencing upon the date
designated by the village for the removal of the equipment, and for the
subsequent interval of time for which the village has requested that the
equipment remain removed from the water tower owned by the village, shall
constitute a separate violation punishable by a fine of one thousand dollars
($1,000) per day for each day for which the equipment is re-attached or re-
installed upon the water tower owned by the village, beginning with the date
designated by the village for the equipment's removal, and during the
subsequent interval of time during which such equipment is to remain removed
from the water tower owned by the village. (Ord. 2021-27, 9-13-2021)
CHAPTER 2
DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Permits Required
8-2-2: Fees
8-2-3: Standards
8-2-4: Repair
8-2-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall construct a driveway or driveway approach
within the public right of way without having first obtained a permit from the
department of public works. Driveways and driveway approaches within the public
right of way shall be six inches (6") in thickness and shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Residential Driveways: New residential driveway approaches shall be
portland cement concrete and a maximum of twenty seven feet (27') in width at
the curb line. However, single-family residential property improved with a
three (3) car garage shall be permitted a maximum curb opening of thirty two
feet (32'). Single-family residential property shall be limited to one curb
opening per lot except for circular drives as specifically approved by the
director of public works. Two-family residential property (duplex) may be
allowed two (2) driveway openings which shall be a maximum of sixteen feet
(16') each if it is deemed necessary in the opinion of the director of public
works (see exhibit
8-2-1A at the end of this section). (Ord. 2014-40, 12-1-2014)
   B.   Commercial Driveways: New commercial driveway approaches shall be
portland cement concrete and a maximum of forty five feet (45') in width at the
curb line. At an intersection, a curb length of not less than ten feet (10')
shall be left undisturbed between the property line extended and the near edge
of the driveway approach. A curb island with a minimum length of six feet (6')
measured along both the curb line and the property line shall be placed between
each driveway approach. A curb length of not less than three feet (3') shall be
left undisturbed adjacent to each property line to serve as an island area
should the adjoining property owner request a permit for a driveway approach.
   C.   Number Of Commercial Driveways: The number of driveways to serve a
single parcel of commercial property shall be as approved by the director of
public works and shall be minimized whenever possible. In all instances, the
space allocated for driveway width shall be the minimum necessary to service
adequately the property involved, considering the location and the nature of
the use, as determined by the department of public works. (2004 Code)
EXHIBIT 8-2-1A
PERMIT FEES:
The fee for this permit shall be $50.00 for residential.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82bf72c11ded8ea8fc23d089b0f9ceda5d9441bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2006.png]
 
   RESIDENTIAL ONE-CAR DRIVEWAY - Approach shall have a width of 12' measured
at the sidewalk with a 3' flare to 15' measured at the curbline.
   RESIDENTIAL TWO-CAR DRIVEWAY - Approach shall have a width of 24' measured
at the sidewalk with a 3' flare to 27' measured at the curbline.
   RESIDENTIAL THREE-CAR DRIVEWAY - Approach shall have a width of 29' measured
at the sidewalk with a 3' flare to 32' measured at the curbline.
   APPROACH CONSTRUCTION
• No wire mesh shall be allowed
• Fiber mesh required with mix
• Two (2) #5 rebar's at corners for reinforcement at corners
Residential one-car and two-car driveways approaches may be increased by up to
2' to allow for access to a legal rear or side yard parking area outside of the
required front yard. Any additional increase must be reviewed and approved by
the village board.
(Ord. 2014-40, 12-1-2014)
8-2-2: FEES:
The fee for all right of way construction permits shall be as stated in the
village of West Dundee fee schedule. (2004 Code)
8-2-3: STANDARDS:
   A.   Surface Elevations: Driveway approaches shall be constructed so as to
eliminate step downs in the sidewalk. The sidewalk should follow a straight
line grade through or across driveways. It is unlawful to have the surface
finish of any new driveway approach constructed so as to render it slippery and
hazardous to pedestrians, or unsightly due to poor workmanship.
   B.   Materials: New driveways across sidewalks and driveway approaches
adjacent to improved streets and within the public right of way shall be
constructed of portland cement concrete. (2004 Code)
8-2-4: REPAIR:
It shall be the responsibility of a property owner who has a driveway on his
property to keep the driveway approach in good repair. The department of public
works shall determine whether repairs to an existing driveway approach may be
made or complete replacement is required. Complete replacement of driveway
approaches shall be made with portland cement concrete. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
STREET AND SIDEWALK VAULT SPACES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Construction Prohibited
8-3-2: Permit Requirements
8-3-3: Conditions Of Permit
8-3-4: Openings To Be Guarded
8-3-5: Construction Standards
8-3-6: Storage Of Explosives Or Hazardous Materials Prohibited
8-3-7: Sidewalk Or Street Surface Maintenance
8-3-1: CONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to construct any vault, space, room or structure under any
street or sidewalk of the village. No such existing space shall be used and
maintained except as provided in this chapter. (2004 Code)
8-3-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required: Any person desiring to use any vault, space, room or
structure under any street or sidewalk of the village shall obtain a permit.
   B.   Application: Any person desiring to use or maintain any vault, space,
room or structure under any street or sidewalk of the village shall make a
written application to the director of public works or his designee and shall
state therein the size of the space intended to be used or maintained and the
purpose for which it is to be used. Each application shall contain a statement
by the applicant that he has read the provisions of this chapter and agrees to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Fee: The annual fee to be paid for each permit shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00). (2004 Code)
8-3-3: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Insurance: Each applicant for a vault permit shall file with the
application a certificate of insurance issued by a liability insurance company
authorized to do business in the state naming the village as an additional
insured and providing liability insurance for personal injury and property
damage with limit coverage of not less than three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) per person and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence
for personal injuries and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for
property damage.
   B.   Nontransferable: No transfer of any permit shall be permitted but any
person succeeding to the interest in the abutting property of a permit holder
shall make application for a new permit as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Term: Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be for
a period of one year. However, permits may be issued for periods not to exceed
ten (10) years upon approval of the village board, and any person desiring to
use any vault, space, room, or structure under any street or sidewalk of the
village may apply for a permit for a period not to exceed ten (10) years. Such
person shall make application to the village board setting forth the reasons
for the request for an extended permit and fully describe any improvements to
the vault space in question, and setting forth the reasons why it is necessary
to obtain a permit for a period longer than one year's duration. The village
board may grant such application if it finds that the continued use of the
vault is necessary for the continued productive use of the building which the
vault space serves; that there are practical difficulties or particular
hardships imposed by the grant of a permit for one year; and that the
particular physical surroundings, shape, or other conditions of the specific
property involved require utilization of the vault space. Any such permit
issued for a period in excess of one year shall be conditioned upon the payment
of the permit fee for the full term, the filing of annual certificates of
insurance, and annual inspection by the village.
   D.   Renewal: Any person desiring to renew any vault permit shall make
application as provided in subsection
8-3-2B of this chapter.
   E.   Revocation Or Nonrenewal: Any permit issued under the provisions of
this chapter may be revoked for failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter and is subject to nonrenewal in the event that the corporate
authorities determine that any vault space is needed for public purposes. (2004
Code)
8-3-4: OPENINGS TO BE GUARDED:
All openings through the sidewalk or street into any vault space shall be
covered and guarded. If the opening is a manhole or trap door, an adequate
metal cover shall be provided and equipped with a rough slip proof surface.
(2004 Code)
8-3-5: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
Vaults, rooms, spaces, or structures shall be firmly constructed so as to
support the sidewalk or street over them, with the maximum load which the
sidewalk or street will carry, with a margin of safety of fifty percent (50%)
over its maximum load or weights. (2004 Code)
8-3-6: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES OR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROHIBITED:
No vault space shall be used for the storage of explosive or flammable liquids,
hazardous activities or any use otherwise prohibited. However, fuel for heating
purposes may be stored in a vault space if the chief of the fire department
determines that said storage may be made in a safe manner and in accordance
with all applicable laws or regulations. (2004 Code)
8-3-7: SIDEWALK OR STREET SURFACE MAINTENANCE:
Any person holding a permit for a vault space shall keep the surface of the
sidewalk or street including any cover free of snow, ice, dirt and obstruction
and shall keep such surface in good repair. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TEMPORARY STREET CLOSURES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Permit Requirements
8-4-3: Litter Collection
8-4-4: Personnel Cost
8-4-5: Compliance With Laws Required
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, a "temporary street closure" shall mean a
block party, local special event, festival, celebration, concert, or any
similar occurrence to be conducted within the village. (2004 Code)
8-4-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required: No person, firm, corporation or organization shall
participate in, advertise for or in any way promote, organize, control, manage,
solicit, or induce participation in a temporary street closure unless a permit
has first been obtained from the village board. No person, firm, corporation or
organization shall violate any of the terms of a permit issued for temporary
street closure or this chapter, nor join or participate in any permitted
activity under this chapter over the objection of the permit holder nor in any
way interfere with the progress or orderly conduct of a temporary street
closure.
   B.   Application: An application for a permit for temporary street closure
shall be made upon a form provided by the village manager and shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The name, residence and business address, and phone number of each
person and organization sponsoring the temporary street closure. If an
organization, the application shall contain the names, residence and business
addresses, and phone numbers of the president or chairman thereof and all other
persons:
         a.   Having an interest or position of management or control in such
organization;
         b.   Who are or will be engaged in organizing, promoting, controlling,
managing or soliciting participation in such temporary street closure;
      2.   The date, or dates, and beginning and ending hours of such temporary
street closure;
      3.   The block or intersection in which such closure will occur;
      4.   The estimated number of persons who will participate;
      5.   The purpose of the temporary street closure;
      6.   Whether parking is requested to be restricted or prohibited during
such closure;
      7.   Whether any sound amplification equipment is proposed to be used,
and if so, information describing such sound amplification. No sound
amplification equipment shall be used in any way contrary to the applicable
village ordinances on sound amplification equipment;
      8.   Whether or not charity, gratuity, or offerings will be solicited or
accepted, or sales of food, beverages or other merchandise will occur;
      9.   Whether such temporary street closure will occupy all or only a
portion of the street or intersection involved;
      10.   Such other information as the village manager deems reasonably
necessary in order to carry out his duties under this chapter.
   C.   Application; Time Of Filing: The application shall be filed not less
than twenty eight (28) days prior to the scheduled date of such temporary
street closure. Failure to file on time will constitute denial of a permit.
   D.   Conditions Imposed: Any permit granted under this chapter may contain
conditions reasonably calculated to reduce or minimize the dangers and hazards
to vehicular or pedestrian traffic and the public health, safety, tranquility,
morals or welfare, including, but not limited to, changes in time, duration,
number of participants, or noise levels and in the event that the event is
intended to attract persons who do not reside in the immediate area, the
village manager may also require insurance and indemnification by the
applicant.
   E.   Standards For Issuance: A permit shall be issued by the village manager
when, from a consideration of the application and from such other information
as may otherwise be obtained, the village board finds that the following
circumstances exist:
      1.   The applicant has not knowingly and with intent to deceive made any
false, misleading or fraudulent statements of material fact in the application
for a permit or in any other document required pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   The applicant has met the standards in this chapter and paid in
advance any fee required and agrees to such conditions as are imposed in the
permit.
      3.   The time, duration and size of the temporary street closure will not
substantially disrupt the orderly and safe movement of other traffic.
      4.   The temporary street closure is of a site or nature such that it
will not require the diversion of so great a number of police officers of the
village as to prevent normal police protection to the village.
      5.   The concentration of persons will not unduly interfere with proper
fire and police protection of or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such
street closure.
      6.   The temporary street closure will not unduly interfere with the
movement of firefighting equipment responding to a fire.
      7.   The temporary street closure will not unduly interfere with the
orderly operation of parks, hospitals, churches, schools or other public and
quasi-public institutions in the village.
   F.   Notice Of Issuance Or Denial: Written notice of the issuance or denial
of a permit shall be provided to the applicant within twenty (20) days of
receipt of an application. If a permit is denied, said written notice shall
state the reasons for denial.
   G.   Appeal: Upon the denial of a permit by the village manager, the
applicant may not appeal.
   H.   Waiver Of Time Limitations: For good cause shown, the village manager
may waive the time limitation established for filing an application or for
filing an appeal.
   I.   Revocation: Any permit for a temporary street closure issued pursuant
to this chapter may be revoked by the village manager or his designee at any
time when by reason of emergency disaster, calamity, disorder, riot, extreme
traffic conditions, violation of this chapter or of any permit conditions, or
undue burden on public services, he determines that the health, safety,
tranquility, morals or welfare of the public or the safety of any property
requires such revocation. Notice of revocation of a permit shall be delivered
in writing to at least one person named upon the permit by personal service or
by certified mail, or if the closure has commenced, orally, or in writing, by
personal contact or service, or by telephone. Continuance of a temporary street
closure after such notice has been delivered is unlawful. (2004 Code)
8-4-3: LITTER COLLECTION:
Applicants shall provide for the collection and removal of all trash, garbage,
and litter caused by or arising out of such temporary street closure. Each
applicant shall enter into a written agreement, specifying the duties to be
performed under this section. Such written agreement shall be in a form
approved by the village attorney. (2004 Code)
8-4-4: PERSONNEL COST:
Applicants shall pay to the village the cost of village personnel who are
required by the village to work overtime hours or other than regular shift or
perform duties during or as a result of such temporary street closure.
Applicants shall deposit with the village a sum in an amount estimated by the
village manager for such purposes. (2004 Code)
8-4-5: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS REQUIRED:
Prior to issuance of a permit under this chapter, all applicable ordinances and
laws shall be complied with and all required permits and licenses shall be
secured in connection with such temporary street closure, or the proposed
activities associated therewith including, but not limited to, charitable
solicitations, collections or acceptance of gratuities, the sale of food,
beverages or other merchandise, or the use of candles, torches, fires, or other
combustibles. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 5
STREET OPENINGS AND CLOSINGS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Permit Requirements
8-5-2: Fees
8-5-3: Bonds
8-5-4: Specifications
8-5-5: Supervision
8-5-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel
under or to make any excavation in any street, alley, or public right of way in
the village without first making application for, and obtaining a permit from,
the department of public works as provided in this chapter. The provisions of
any ordinance granting a franchise to a public utility now in effect or which
shall be in effect shall prevail over the provisions of this chapter when the
same shall be in conflict therewith.
   B.   Application: Applications for permits shall be made at the department
of public works and shall show:
      1.   The location, extent and details of the proposed work and
description of abutting property, by means of sketch, if required;
      2.   The name and address of the person for whom the work is being done;
      3.   The name and address of the person performing the work;
      4.   That the applicant has certified that he is authorized to act in
behalf of the owner (if other than the owner applies) and has reviewed a copy
of the ordinance codified in this chapter and specifications applicable thereto
and will comply with the provisions contained therein, and will comply with all
other ordinances of the village applicable to the work, including barricades,
safety and traffic regulations;
      5.   Estimated cost of work, when deemed necessary;
      6.   Proof of appropriate insurance shall be on file with the department
of public works;
      7.   Estimated date of commencement and completion of work; however, in
no case shall the completion of the work be later than six (6) months after the
date the permit is issued; provided, that at the time of application the
department of public works may, for work of considerable magnitude, authorize
such six (6) month limit extended for a definite period of time necessary to
complete the work; provided further, that the village manager may extend the
permit time limit at any time prior to the expiration thereof where the
permittee has made application in writing to the department of public works
setting forth the justification for such extension and the village manager
finds such extension of time is justified. In the event the applicant elects to
construct a temporary patch in an existing paved street to be replaced later by
a permanent patch, the following procedure on this portion of the work only
shall apply:
         a.   Temporary patch work shall be completed within time limits as set
forth in this subsection. The applicant shall inspect such patch at regular and
not to exceed monthly intervals, or on notification by the village, and
maintain the patch in good condition and to finish pavement grade at all times.
The applicant shall notify the department of public works upon completion of
all temporary patches.
         b.   Temporary patches placed prior to October 1 of each year shall be
replaced by permanent patches within sixty (60) days but in no case later than
the first frost of each year. Temporary patches placed after October 1 of each
year shall be replaced by permanent patches prior to June 1 of the following
year. Exceptions to these requirements may be made by the department of public
works due to weather conditions making the provisions inoperative;
      8.   Such other information as the department of public works deems
reasonably necessary for the determination of whether a permit should be issued
hereunder.
In the event of emergency work during working hours, persons shall contact the
village in person or by phone, describing work and location and reason for
necessity of proceeding immediately and shall obtain verbal approval from the
director of public works, or village manager. Formal application covering such
work shall be made within twenty four (24) hours thereafter. In the event an
emergency arises after working hours or on days when the village offices are
closed, work may be accomplished in accordance with this chapter, followed by
formal application on the next working day; provided, that the police
department is immediately notified in person or by telephone of the emergency
by the person performing the work.
   C.   Denial Of Permit: Permits may be denied if the applicant has previously
failed to follow the provisions of this chapter or to correct improper work
after due notification by the department of public works.
   D.   Revocation:
      1.   The director of public works may revoke any permit and stop work
upon finding that work is not being done in accordance with this chapter and
applicable specifications.
      2.   Where no work commences under a permit within six (6) months of date
of issuance of the permit, such permit shall become null and void and a new
application must be submitted for the work. Lack of required notification by
permittee to the department of public works prior to expiration dates will be
prima facie evidence to cause nullification of the permit. (2004 Code)
8-5-2: FEES:
   A.   Permit Fee: Permit fees shall be as stated in the village of West
Dundee fee schedule.
   B.   Simultaneous Work: A permit may be issued for more than one cut or
street opening provided that the work is in one contiguous area (lying in
connecting street blocks). (2004 Code)
8-5-3: BONDS:
The following bonds or equivalent shall accompany an application for permit
hereunder and such bonds shall be in a form approved by the village attorney:
   A.   Construction And Maintenance: The applicant shall furnish the village a
maintenance and construction bond to be filed with the application for a permit
in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the work to be done and conditioned
that such work shall be done in accordance with specifications on file in the
department of public works and guaranteeing the same for a period of one year
after date of completion.
In lieu of individual bonds and with the approval of the director of public
works, the applicant may file with the village a blanket bond on or before
January 1 of each year in an amount equal to the total cost of street work done
by the applicant in the preceding calendar year conditioned as specified for
individual permit bonds. In the event the director of public works determines
that the work in any one year may exceed this amount, the director of public
works may require an additional bond to be filed in an amount estimated to
cover the cost of the work he estimates will be performed during the balance of
the year.
In any case where the permittee fails to comply with the requirements of this
chapter or defaults, the director of public works shall order completion or
correction of the work by the village and shall recover the cost from the
permittee as provided by law. (2004 Code)
8-5-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   All work performed under permits issued in accordance with this chapter
shall be done in conformity with specifications stated in chapter 1 of this
title.
   B.   In addition, the work shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   The operation will not interfere unreasonably with vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, the demand and necessity for parking spaces, and the means
of ingress or egress from the property affected and adjacent properties; where
pedestrian traffic must be detoured, temporary sidewalks shall be constructed
or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for users;
      2.   The contractor is responsible for notifying the private utility
companies for existing utility locations;
      3.   The health, welfare and safety of the public will not be
unreasonably impaired. (2004 Code)
8-5-5: SUPERVISION:
   A.   The director of public works shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter and shall from time to time cause inspections to be made of work under
permits to ensure that provisions of this chapter and specifications are being
followed.
   B.   Notice shall be given the director of public works by the permittee
forty eight (48) hours in advance of commencement of work under a permit. (2004
Code)
CHAPTER 6
WATER AND WASTEWATER
SECTION:
8-6-1: Organization
8-6-1-1: Creation And Composition
8-6-1-2: Director
8-6-1-3: Duties Of The Division
8-6-1-4: Regulations Applicable
8-6-1-5: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-6-1-6: Accounts And Records
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Billing And Accounting
8-6-3-1: Billing Duties
8-6-3-2: Manner Of Billing
8-6-3-3: Disposition Of Revenues
8-6-3-4: Accounts
8-6-3-5: Filing Regulations
8-6-3-6: Liens; Notice Of Delinquency
8-6-3-7: Termination Of Service
8-6-3-8: Reinstatement Of Service
8-6-3-9: Discontinuing Service
8-6-4: Protection Of Facilities From Damage
8-6-4-1: Emergency Limitations
8-6-4-2: Shutting Off Water
8-6-4-3: Access To Equipment
8-6-4-4: Damage To Equipment And Property
8-6-5: Use Of Water Facilities
8-6-5-1: Use Of Water Facilities Required
8-6-5-2: Private Water Supply; Prohibition Of Private Wells
8-6-5-3: Connections To Water Facilities
8-6-5-4: Service Pipes
8-6-5-5: Meters Required
8-6-5-6: Separate Water Services Required
8-6-5-7: Fire Hydrants
8-6-6: Extension Of Water Mains Or Sanitary Sewers
8-6-7: Use Of Wastewater Facilities
8-6-7-1: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-6-7-2: Private Wastewater Treatment Facilities
8-6-7-3: Connections To The Wastewater Facilities
8-6-7-4: Building Sewers
8-6-7-5: Use Of The Wastewater Facilities
8-6-8: Wastewater Service Charge
8-6-8-1: Basis For Wastewater Service Charges
8-6-8-2: User Charge
8-6-8-3: Surcharge
8-6-8-4: Debt Service Charge
8-6-8-5: Other Charges
8-6-8-6: Measurement Of Flow
8-6-9: Rates, Charges And Billing
8-6-9-1: Classification Of Accounts
8-6-9-2: Rates For Water And Sewer Service
8-6-9-3: Minimum Charge For Water/Sewer Service
8-6-10: Penalty
8-6-1: ORGANIZATION:
8-6-1-1: CREATION AND COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a combined water and wastewater division within the
department of public works hereinafter called the division. The division shall
consist of a director of public works and such other members of the department
as may from time to time be provided for by the village president and board of
trustees. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-1-2: DIRECTOR:
The director shall be appointed by the village manager. The village manager
shall provide a recommendation upon the request of the village president and
board of trustees. The village manager may suspend or discharge the director
for cause at any time. The director shall be responsible for the operation of
the division. The director shall report and be responsible to the village
manager for the operation of the division. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004
Code)
8-6-1-3: DUTIES OF THE DIVISION:
The division shall be in charge of all matters relating to the water facilities
and the wastewater facilities including the connection thereto and the
extension thereof. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-1-4: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE:
The regulations of this chapter govern every user of the village water and
wastewater facilities and shall be part of the contract between the village and
every such user. In making application for water or sewer service, every user
shall agree in writing to be bound thereby. It is the duty of the director to
enforce these regulations. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-1-5: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
The director and other duly authorized employees of the village, the Illinois
environmental protection agency and the United States environmental protection
agency bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter on all private properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The director or his representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any industrial process beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the wastewater facilities.
While performing the necessary work on private property, the director or duly
authorized employees of the village, the IEPA, and the USEPA shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the authority having
jurisdiction.
The director and other duly authorized employees of the village bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter on all private
properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the water and wastewater
facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any,
on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
8-6-1-6: ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS:
It shall be the duty of the director to provide information to the village
manager on all accounts and records of all business connected with the water
and wastewater division. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall mean as follows:
   ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection
agency.
   AVERAGE DRY WEATHER FLOW: The average daily flow for the latest three (3)
month period for which the rainfall was less than normal for each of the three
(3) months.
   AVERAGE WET WEATHER FLOW: The average daily flow for the month of most
rainfall in a fiscal year.
   BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quality of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
per liter.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER: The building commissioner of the village of West
Dundee, or his authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from the soil, wastes, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER: The extension of the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. The purpose of a control manhole is to provide access for the
village representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period by each user
for payment of interest, principal and coverage of revenue bonds outstanding.
   DIRECTOR: Director of public works or his authorized deputy, representative
or agent.
   DIVISION: The combined water and wastewater division of the village.
   DOMESTIC OR RESIDENTIAL USER: Any user of the wastewater facilities not
classed as an industrial user.
   DWELLING OR RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT: A unit designed for occupancy by one
family. It may be a house designed for the exclusive use of one family or it
may be a portion of a building designed and intended to be used by one family.
   EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for a specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA: As defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   ESTIMATED FLOW FROM DOMESTIC USERS: The estimated wastewater flow from
single-family dwellings where private water systems are used. For the purposes
of this chapter, the contribution per dwelling unit shall be two hundred twenty
five (225) gallons per day.
   FEDERAL ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC 1251 et seq.)
as amended by the federal water pollution control act of amendments of 1972 (PL
92-500) and PL 93-243. All rules and regulations promulgated under authority of
the act are made part of this chapter by reference.
   FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II grants for
construction of treatment works of the act and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   IEPA: Illinois environmental protection agency. All rules and regulations
established by the IEPA are made part of this chapter by reference.
   INCIDENTAL REMOVAL OR INCIDENTAL TO: The removal of a constituent for which
no capital or operating or maintenance costs are expended.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDUSTRIAL USER: Any nongovernmental user of the wastewater treatment
facilities identified in the SIC manual, 1972, "Office Of Management And
Budget", as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
   A.   Division A - agriculture, forestry and fishing.
   B.   Division B - mining.
   C.   Division D - manufacturing.
   D.   Division E - transportation, communications, electric, gas, and
sanitary services.
   E.   Division I - services.
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined by the
village that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes
from plumbing fixtures.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES OR INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER: The liquid, solid, and gaseous
wastes from industrial processes, as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   LIABILITY: Whenever reference is made to "secure and protect the village
from any liability or damage" it shall include all authorized employees and
agents of the village as well as the elected and appointed officials.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facilities of the village that:
   A.   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average
workday; or
   B.   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the average dry weather
flow; or
   C.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the federal act; or
   D.   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the
waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
affluent from that treatment works.
   MAXIMUM WET WEATHER FLOW: The average daily flow for the maximum week in the
month used to determine the average wet weather flow.
   MAY: May is permissive.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l): A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.0001 gram of the constituent in one thousand
milligrams (1,000 mg) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used
commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in
reporting the results of water and wastewater analysis.
   NPDES PERMIT (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM): Any permit
or equivalent document or requirements issued by the administrator, or, where
appropriate, by the director, after enactment of the federal water pollution
control amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the act.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NEW WASTEWATER SOURCE: Any source constructed after the adoption of this
chapter. For the purposes of this chapter, additions to a dwelling unit shall
not be considered a new source.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: For the purposes of this chapter, normal
domestic wastewater shall contain the following constituents at the strengths
indicated:
 
BOD 200 mg/l
SS  240 mg/l
 
   p: Phosphorus or phosphorus compounds.
   ppm: Parts per million by weight.
   PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING FIXTURE: Any device or equipment normally located in a dwelling
unit from which wastewater is discharged.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment facility or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pound of BOD and 0.20
pound of suspended solids.
   POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing foods.
   PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewater from sources before introduction
into the wastewater facilities.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer owned or controlled by the village.
   REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary to maintain the capacity and
performance during the service life of the treatment facilities for which such
facilities were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance"
includes replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL OR NONINDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of the wastewater
facilities not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial
user as provided for in this section.
   SIC MANUAL: The standard industrial classification manual - 1972. Executive
office of the president - office management and budget.
SS (Denoting Suspended Solids): Solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable
by a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended
solids shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "standard
methods".
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SERVICE LIFE: The period of time during which a component of the facilities
will be capable of performing a function.
   SEWAGE: Is used interchangeably with wastewater.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   SEWERAGE: A word sometimes used to describe that part of the wastewater
facilities associated with the collection and conveyance of wastewater.
   SHALL: Shall is mandatory.
   SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, the
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal
operation.
   STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And
Wastewater" published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SUBSTANTIAL REMOVAL: In general, means the removal of at least eighty
percent (80%).
   SURCHARGE: The assessment, in addition to the user charge and debt service
charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength
than "normal domestic wastewater" as defined herein.
   UNIT OF FLOW: A unit of flow for billing purposes shall be one thousand
(1,000) gallons.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the wastewater
facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment facilities will be operated and shall be fifty (50) years from the
date of startup of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
   USER: Any person or persons making connection to the water and/or wastewater
facilities of the village of West Dundee.
   USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of the wastewater facilities for the
cost of operation and maintenance of such facilities.
   USER CLASS: The type of user either residential or commercial
(nonindustrial) or industrial as defined herein.
   VILLAGE CLERK: The duly elected clerk of the village of West Dundee.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER: The duly appointed engineer of the village of West Dundee.
   VILLAGE MANAGER: The duly appointed chief administrative officer of the
village of West Dundee.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The duly elected president of the village of West Dundee.
   VILLAGE TREASURER: The duly appointed treasurer of the village of West
Dundee.
   WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport the
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: A charge for the use of and the service supplied
by the wastewater facilities of the village of West Dundee. The service charge
shall consist of the user charge, the cost of any bond debt of such facilities,
and such other charges as may be deemed necessary by the village.
   WASTEWATER SOURCE OR WASTE SOURCE: Any installation, process, or equipment
from which there is or may be a discharge of pollutants.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge.
   WATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, pump, treat and distribute water to the users.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Are defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
   WATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge for the use of and the service supplied by
the water facilities of the village of West Dundee. The water service shall
consist of a charge for the operation and maintenance of the water facilities,
the cost of any bond debt of such facilities, and such other costs as may be
deemed necessary by the village.
   WATERCOURSE: A. A natural or artificial channel for passage of water.
   B.   A running stream of water.
   C.   A natural stream fed from permanent or natural sources, including
rivers, creeks, runs and rivulets. There must be a stream, usually flowing in a
particular direction (though it need not flow continuously) in a definite
channel having a bed or banks and usually discharging into some other stream or
body of water. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 09-10, 5-18-2009; Ord. 10-01,
1-18-2010)
8-6-3: BILLING AND ACCOUNTING:
8-6-3-1: BILLING DUTIES:
It is hereby made the duty of the village treasurer to render bills for service
and for all rates and charges in connection therewith and to collect all monies
due thereon. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-3-2: MANNER OF BILLING:
A bill shall be rendered for the use of the water and wastewater facilities.
Billings shall be made bimonthly except that if the total bill for all charges
shall exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per quarter, the village
treasurer may bill such user monthly or require an estimated monthly payment.
Credit shall be given for estimated payments on bimonthly bills.
Bimonthly billing periods shall commence on January 1 of each year and bills
shall be rendered for each two (2) month period thereafter. Where charges are
to be recomputed annually, said charges shall become effective for all water
purchased or wastewater treated during the period to which the rate applies.
Single users with multiple water meters or flow meters may be rendered a single
bill.
The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the service
shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service on such premises
and the service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon the
condition that the owner of the premises, occupant, and user of the service are
jointly and severally liable therefor to the village. All bills for service
shall be rendered bimonthly as of the first day of the month succeeding the
bimonthly period for which the service is billed, or as soon thereafter as
possible, and shall be payable not later than the close of business on the
twentieth day after the date bills are rendered. A penalty of ten percent (10%)
shall be added to each bill not paid within twenty (20) days after the
rendition of the bills. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-3-3: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
   A.   Water And Wastewater Charges: All revenues and monies derived from the
water and wastewater charges shall be held by the village treasurer separate
and apart from all other funds of the village, and all of such sum, without any
deductions whatever, shall be immediately deposited in the water and wastewater
fund of the village. Said funds shall be segregated into such accounts as may
be required but shall include a wastewater operation and maintenance account
and a wastewater equipment replacement account. Funds in the replacement
account shall be used solely for the replacement, repair, or rehabilitation of
the equipment of the wastewater facilities and shall be used at such times as
deemed necessary by the corporate authorities.
   B.   Tapping Fees And Other Fees: All revenues and monies derived from
tapping fees and other fees shall be deposited in a water and wastewater
improvement fund. Said fund shall be used solely for the improvement,
extension, or the betterment of the water and wastewater facilities. (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-3-4: ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The village treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the combined water and
wastewater department and at regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made
an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts
and disbursements of the combined water and wastewater department. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
8-6-3-5: FILING REGULATIONS:
A copy of the provisions of this chapter relating to water and wastewater
service charges shall be filed in the office of the village clerk and shall be
deemed notice to all owners of real estate of their liability for service
supplied to any user of the service of the combined water and wastewater
facilities of the village on their properties. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-3-6: LIENS; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY:
Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for sixty (60) days after it
has been rendered, the village treasurer shall file with the county recorder of
deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice
that the village claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
subsequent to the period covered by the bill. If the user whose bill is unpaid
is not the owner of the premises and the village treasurer has notice of this,
notice shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his address be known to
the treasurer, whenever such bill remains unpaid for the period of forty five
(45) days. The failure of the village treasurer to record such lien or to mail
such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the foregoing
section. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-3-7: TERMINATION OF SERVICE:
In the event that the charges for service or industrial cost recovery are not
fully paid within sixty (60) days after rendition of the bill for such service,
the village treasurer shall at the direction of the village manager send the
following notice certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner of the
premises, occupant, and/or user of the service:
   NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY
You are hereby notified that the charges billed to you under date of (insert
date) for the building located at (insert address) have not been paid and
remain delinquent. In the event that you fail to pay said user charges within
thirty (30) days hereafter, your water and wastewater service will be
disconnected and your building will be declared as unfit for human occupancy on
the forty-fifth (45th) day after date of this notice.
Dated:                 VILLAGE OF WEST DUNDEE
By:                      
Village Manager
In the event that such charge remains unpaid on the thirtieth day after the
posting of the aforesaid notice, the following notice shall be mailed by
registered mail, return receipt requested, to the owner of the premises,
occupant and user of the service, and also thumbtacked or taped to the front
door or the rear door of the building or housing unit within a building:
   NOTICE OF TERMINATION
You are hereby notified that there has been no response to the Notice of
Delinquency in the payment of the water and wastewater charges, and the thirty
(30) day period therein stated has lapsed. You are hereby notified that on
(insert date 15 days after service of this notice) the Village will physically
disconnect the service to which it is connected and will declare the building
located at (insert address) as "unfit for human occupancy."
Dated:                 VILLAGE OF WEST DUNDEE
By:                      
Village Manager
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-3-8: REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE:
Upon payment to the village treasurer of the full delinquency, plus the costs
of termination, and a twenty five dollar ($25.00) reinstatement fee, the
village will reinstate the service or issue a permit for the service to be
reinstated. If a permit is issued to reinstate the service, the owner of the
premises or the occupant and user of the service shall pay all costs necessary
to reinstate the service, including inspection and supervision costs incurred
by the village. The user shall continue to pay the charges assessed hereunder
by the village thereafter as billed, and after ten (10) quarters of prompt
payment of such charges with no delinquency in excess of thirty (30) days, the
deposit shall be refunded to the person having made such deposit, without
interest thereon. Upon payment of the fees and reinstatement of service, the
building commissioner shall remove the red tag from the building and the
building shall, so far as the village is concerned, be "fit for human
occupancy". (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-3-9: DISCONTINUING SERVICE:
Any person wishing to discontinue service shall give notice thereof to the
village treasurer prior to the expiration of the time for which payment has
been made or become due and remaining unpaid; otherwise, he shall be liable for
the charge for the ensuing quarter. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-4: PROTECTION OF FACILITIES FROM DAMAGE:
8-6-4-1: EMERGENCY LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Water:
      1.   Whenever in the judgment of the village president public exigency
may require it, he shall have the right and authority by proclamation, to be
published in a newspaper printed within the county, to limit in respect to
time, or wholly suspend or prohibit for such length of time as such exigency
shall, in his judgment require, the use of water for any nonessential purpose,
and no person shall use or draw water in violation of any such proclamation.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
      2.   In addition to the emergency limitations prescribed in subsection A1
of this section, color coded "Water Restriction" signs strategically located
within the village shall serve as sufficient notice to inform the general
public when the use of the public water supply for nonessential watering
purposes are restricted or prohibited. Nonessential water use activities
include, but are not limited to, lawn irrigation systems, lawn sprinklers, hand
watering, car washes, filling swimming pools, etc. The color designations
identifying the level of restriction are as follows:
Green: "Conservation" - voluntary water conservation practice is in effect.
Nonessential watering is permitted.
Yellow: "Even/odd" - all outside watering practices consisting of lawn
sprinkling, irrigation systems and filling of swimming pools are restricted to
even/odd days according to street address. Commercial car washing businesses
are exempt from the provisions of this section.
Red: "Nonessential watering usage prohibited" - nonessential watering is
strictly prohibited. (Ord. 2003-25, 6-2-2003)
   B.   Wastewater: In case of making repairs or alterations or constructing
new facilities or for any other reason, the village president reserves the
right to limit the discharge of wastewater to the wastewater facilities for as
long as may be necessary by giving such reasonable notice thereof as shall be
practicable to the user. No claim shall be made against the village by reason
of the above or by reason of the breakage or failure of any portion of the
wastewater facilities. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-4-2: SHUTTING OFF WATER:
In case of making repairs or alterations or constructing new facilities or for
any other reason, the village reserves the right to shut off the water at once
and keep it shut off as long as may be necessary by giving such reasonable
notice thereof as shall be practicable to user. No claim shall be made against
the village by reason of the above or by reason of the breakage or failure of
any pump, or other portion of the water system. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-4-3: ACCESS TO EQUIPMENT:
No person shall in any manner obstruct access to any valve, hydrant, stopcock,
manhole, flow measuring equipment or any other equipment necessary to the
operation of the water or wastewater facilities which is located in any public
street, alley or easement. No person shall in any manner obstruct access to any
meter or any flow measuring equipment located in any building or on any site.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-4-4: DAMAGE TO EQUIPMENT AND PROPERTY:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, equipment or
property of the water or wastewater facilities. No unauthorized person shall
repair, remove or replace any equipment, appurtenance or property of the water
and wastewater facilities. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-5: USE OF WATER FACILITIES:
8-6-5-1: USE OF WATER FACILITIES REQUIRED:
The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties constructed after the
effective date of this chapter situated within the village and abutting on any
street, alley, or right of way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public water main of the village, is hereby required to
make a connection to the water facilities of the village in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter provided that the water main is within three hundred
feet (300') of the nearest property line or within three hundred (300) days
after official notice that a water main is available. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-5-2: PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY; PROHIBITION OF PRIVATE WELLS:
   A.   Whenever a public water main is not available under the provisions of
section
8-6-5-1 of this chapter, the building service pipe shall be connected to a
private water supply complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Whenever an industrial user requires water for industrial purposes and
the village determines that the public water facilities have inadequate
capacity to provide the volume or rate flow required by said industry, the user
may be required to install a private water supply complying with the provisions
of this section; provided, however, that the private water supply not be used
for any purpose except for industrial purposes.
   C.   A private water supply shall not be used for domestic purposes for any
building containing more than one use or more than one dwelling unit nor for
more than a single building. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   D.   1. Prior To Commencement: Before commencement of construction of a
private water supply outside of:
         a.   The one thousand five hundred fifty foot (1,550') groundwater
ordinance around the Family Pride Cleaners located at 537 South Eighth Street,
         b.   Within a circular area with a four hundred foot (400') radius,
centered at the southeast of the Kane County Cleaners (PIN: 03-22-479-020-0000)
located at 102 West Main Street;
the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the director of public
works. The application for such a permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the village, which the applicant shall supplement by plans, specifications and
other information deemed necessary by the director of public works. A permit
and inspection fee shall be paid to the village treasurer at the time the
application is filed.
         a.   Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective
date hereof, the use or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater
from within one thousand five hundred fifty feet (1,550') of Family Pride
Cleaners located at 537 South Eighth Street of the village of West Dundee, as a
potable water supply, by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other
method is hereby prohibited. This prohibition includes properties between the
following latitudes and longitudes: North 42 degrees 5 minutes 49.5 seconds
"Oregon Street" (north), North 42 degrees 5 minutes 18.3 seconds "250-feet
south of Storm Drive and Eichler Drive intersection" (south), West 88 degrees
16 minutes 47.6 seconds "South Third Street" (east) and West 88 degrees 17
minutes 38.2 seconds "Elm Court" (west) in the village of West Dundee.
         b.   The use or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater
from within a circular area with a four hundred foot (400') radius, centered at
the southeast of the Kane County Cleaners (PIN: 03-22-479-020-0000) located at
102 West Main Street in West Dundee, and as described in exhibit 1 on file with
the village (groundwater ordinance boundary description) which is made part of
this subsection, as a potable water supply, by the installation or drilling of
wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. This prohibition expressly
includes the village of West Dundee.
      2.   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this subsection
shall be subject to a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
violation.
      3.   Definitions:
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing foods. (Ord. 11-13, 11-7-2011)
   E.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private water supply in a
sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village.
   F.   Whenever a private water supply is provided, the owner shall install a
water meter to measure the water pumped as required in section
8-6-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-5-3: CONNECTIONS TO WATER FACILITIES:
   A.   No person shall make a connection to the water facilities of the
village without first making application to the village for the privilege of
making said connection and to have a written permit approved by the director of
public works and to pay all applicable fees.
   B.   Persons desiring such connection to the water facilities of the village
shall, in addition to making application, fully state all purposes for which
water is required and answer all questions put to them by the director relating
to the proposed water consumption. In the case of any fraudulent representation
on the part of the user, the payment will be forfeited and the supply of water
stopped.
   C.   No permit will be issued until the permittee:
      1.   Pays the tapping fee as prescribed in this section.
      2.   Pays the cost of the meter (meter fee).
      3.   Secures a street opening permit in conformance with the provisions
of chapter 5 of this title.
      4.   Agrees to pay all costs of the installation of said service.
      5.   Agrees to give the director a minimum of twenty four (24) hours'
notice prior to the start of the installation of the service and when the
service shall be ready for inspection, except that inspections will be made
only during regular village working hours.
      6.   Agrees that the materials used and the method of installation shall
be in conformance with specifications established by the village.
      7.   Agrees to conform to all rules governing plumbers and to the
regulations of the Illinois state plumbing code.
      8.   Agrees to secure and protect the village from any liability or
damage whatsoever for injury (including death) to any person or property and
files with the director liability insurance certificates. (Ord. 96-08, 4-15-
1996)
   D.   Water tap-on fees will be charged for connecting or tapping onto the
village's water facilities. Such fees must be paid at the time of application
for the service. The fee shall be as follows:
Water tap-on fee - $5,248.00 per single-family unit
The costs per unit (tap) are based on an average daily usage of three hundred
fifty (350) gallons per day, or the equivalent to that used by a single-family
home. Tap-on requests for users other than single-family residential which
contribute a higher hydraulic loading will be charged a higher tap-on fee
calculated as follows:
Daily water usage x $15.00 per gallon
(For example, a multi-family residential apartment building which has an
average daily consumption of 900 gallons would pay a water tap-on fee of
$13,500.00.)
Anticipated operational daily usage for other than single- family residential
construction shall be determined by the village at the time of building permit
and such fee shall be based upon reasonable and sound engineering data for
comparable users. (Ord. 06-13, 5-15-2006)
8-6-5-4: SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Water Service Pipe: The water service pipe extends from the public
water main to and includes the curb stopcock which shall be located in the
public right of way (parkway) or an easement as directed by the director. The
pipe, valves and fittings used for the service pipe shall be as specified or as
provided by the village. The village may also make the tap to the water main.
The permittee shall pay all costs of installing the service pipe including such
material and services provided by the village. The village will maintain the
water service pipe.
   B.   Building Service Pipe: The building service pipe extends from the curb
stopcock to the building and shall be installed by the user at his expense by a
state of Illinois licensed plumber. The building service pipe shall be the same
size and same material as the water service pipe and shall be inspected by the
director or his designee. Persons taking water must do so at their own expense,
and must keep the building service pipe in good repair, protect it from frost
or damage in any other manner, and prevent all waste of water. It shall be the
duty of the user to maintain the building service pipe from the curb stopcock
to the house. If the user fails to properly maintain the building service pipe,
the director shall have the authority to enter onto the property and provide
maintenance as required and bill for the cost of said maintenance on the next
water bill or, at the direction of the village manager, shut the water off
until proper maintenance is completed. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-5-5: METERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Installation: No person shall be allowed to receive water from the
village for any purpose except fire protection without first having a proper
water meter installed to measure the amount of water consumed. (Ord. 89-04, 4-
3-1989)
   B.   Meter Sizing: Meters shall conform to specifications fixed by the
director as to size, capacity and construction. Meters shall be furnished by
the village at the user's cost and shall remain the property of the village.
All meters shall be installed at a location approved by the director. (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Ownership: Meters are the property of the village and shall be
maintained, repaired or replaced by the village at no cost to the user except
as provided for in section
8-6-4 of this chapter.
   D.   Meter Required: In the event a building contains more than one use, a
meter is hereby required for each use unless the building contains only
residential dwelling units and the use of a single meter for the building is
approved by the director.
   E.   Private Water Supply: Whenever any portion of water pumped from a
private water supply is discharged to the wastewater facilities of the village,
a meter shall be installed to measure the amount of water pumped from the
private water supply. Wastewater billed shall be based on the total of the
water pumped and the water purchased from the village unless a flow meter is
approved as herein provided. Where flow meters are approved, the meter
requirement on private wells may be waived by the village.
   F.   Meter Replacement: No person shall remove a private meter for the
purpose of having it repaired without first contacting the director and having
the meter read before it is removed and after it has been replaced. Whenever a
meter is removed, a replacement meter shall be installed to provide for
continuous metering of the private water supply. If a replacement meter is not
available, the wastewater charges for the period for which no meter was in
service shall be based on the average use for a previous comparable period as
determined by the village treasurer. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-5-6: SEPARATE WATER SERVICES REQUIRED:
A separate water service pipe is required for every building or residence.
Where a building contains more than one commercial or industrial user or where
the building contains a combination of commercial or industrial and residential
uses, there shall be separate services for each use. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-5-7: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Use: All hydrants constructed in the village for the purpose of
extinguishing fires are hereby declared to be public hydrants. No persons other
than members of the West Dundee fire department and those authorized by the
director shall open any such hydrant or attempt to draw water from same or in
any manner interfere with or injure any of such hydrants.
   B.   Obstruction Of Hydrants: No person shall obstruct the use of any fire
hydrant or place any material in front thereof. Any material forming such
obstruction may be removed by the village. The cost of removal shall be borne
by the owner thereof.
   C.   Wrenches: No person shall use any water hydrant wrenches without the
permission of the director.
   D.   Temporary Use: Any person wishing to make a connection to a hydrant as
a temporary source of water for construction or other purposes approved by the
director shall make application to the village. The user shall make a deposit
equal to the replacement cost of the meter which shall be returned less fifteen
dollars ($15.00) per week or portion thereof for meter rental, three dollars
($3.00) per thousand gallons for all water used, and any cost of maintenance
and repair to the meter. Meters will be supplied as available. No temporary
meters shall be installed between November 15 and April 1 or at any other time
when there is danger of freezing. Temporary meters shall be installed on a
weekly basis and payment for the use shall be weekly. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-6: EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS OR SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into, use,
alter, or disturb any public sanitary sewer or water main of the village for
the purpose of extending same without first making application to the village
for making said extension and to have the proposed extension approved by the
village board of trustees.
   B.   Persons desiring such extension of the water or sewer system shall file
with the village the following documents:
      1.   Detailed plans and specifications for the extension prepared by a
registered professional engineer licensed to practice in the state of Illinois.
      2.   Illinois environmental protection agency permit application, with
such supporting documents as are required by the Illinois environmental
protection agency, completed and ready for village signature.
      3.   Detailed estimate of cost of the extension.
   C.   After approval of the plans and specifications by the village and
receipt of an Illinois environmental protection agency permit, the applicant
shall submit to the village the following documents prior to starting the
extension:
      1.   A guarantee for completion of the work by filing with the village
clerk a bond, in the form approved in writing by the village attorney, in the
principal amount of one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated
cost as approved by the director; and secured by either:
         a.   A certificate of deposit with or an escrow account at a federally
insured bank or savings and loan association with resources of at least ten
million dollars ($10,000,000.00) under the provisions of an escrow agreement
approved in form by the village attorney, in an amount equal to one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated construction cost as approved by
the director of public works and subject to draw by the village to complete
improvements if they are not completed by the applicant within the prescribed
time limit. Reduction of the bond or security thereon may be permitted only
upon recommendation of the director and approval of the village board upon
application for payout by the applicant in amounts such that funds remaining in
the escrow account will always equal one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of
the value of the uncompleted work, as determined by the director, and such that
not more than ninety five percent (95%) of the approved cost estimate is
released prior to final inspection of the improvements by the village; or
         b.   A clean, nondeclining, irrevocable letter of credit in such form
as approved by the village attorney, issued by a federally insured bank or
savings and loan association with resources of at least ten million dollars
($10,000,000.00), in an amount equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%)
of the estimated construction cost as approved by the director of public works.
The letter shall provide that funds may be drawn only by the village. Reduction
of the bond or security thereon may be permitted only upon recommendation of
the director and approval of the village board upon application for payout by
the applicant in amounts such that the credit remaining will always equal one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the value of the uncompleted work and
such that not more than ninety five percent (95%) of the approved cost estimate
is drawn prior to final inspection of the improvements by the village.
      2.   A maintenance bond, escrow account or irrevocable letter of credit
in an amount equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the approved estimated cost of
the improvements or not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), whichever
is greater, for a period of fifteen (15) months after completion of the
construction. The funds in escrow accounts or letter of credit for maintenance
purposes shall be directly available for draw by the village. Approval shall be
granted by the village prior to substitution of a maintenance bond for a
completion bond and the security therefor.
      3.   Copies of all permits required.
      4.   Certificates of insurance protecting the village from any liability
or damage whatsoever from injury (including death) to any person or property.
   D.   The applicant shall agree as follows:
      1.   To pay all reasonable engineering and legal costs incurred by the
village in the review of the project. Payment shall be made to the village
prior to commencing the extension.
      2.   To pay all reasonable costs of inspection. The estimated cost of
inspection, approved by the village, shall be deposited with the village clerk
prior to the start of work. The permittee, however, shall pay only the actual
costs of such services based on standard engineering fees.
      3.   Materials and construction methods shall be in conformance with
specifications established by the village.
      4.   That the engineer designing the extension shall provide field stake
out and general supervision and shall prepare the as built drawings.
   E.   The performance bond will not be released until the following documents
are filed with the village clerk and approved by the village:
      1.   As built drawings. One reproducible set and two (2) sets of prints.
      2.   Release of all permits.
      3.   Copies of all tests required by the director of public works.
   F.   No extension will be allowed to the sanitary sewer system if the
village determines that the wastewater facilities have inadequate available
capacity. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-7: USE OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES:
8-6-7-1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village of West Dundee or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village,
any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectional waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any watercourse within the village
of West Dundee or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located any public sanitary sewer of the
village, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, provided that
said public sewer is within three hundred feet (300') of the property line or
within ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so. (Ord. 89-04, 4-
3-1989)
8-6-7-2: PRIVATE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES:
   A.   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
subsection
8-6-7-1D of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section, except
that:
      1.   No person shall construct a wastewater treatment facility within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village for the purpose of
treating domestic wastewater and discharging same to a watercourse.
      2.   No person shall construct a wastewater treatment facility within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village for the purpose of
treating industrial wastes and discharging same to a watercourse unless the
village determines that the public wastewater facilities have inadequate
capacity, and issues a permit for the construction and operation of a
wastewater treatment facility. No village permit shall become effective until:
         a.   An Illinois environmental protection agency permit to construct
and operate the facility has been received.
         b.   An NPDES permit has been received.
         c.   The director has approved the plans and specifications in
writing.
      3.   No person shall construct a private wastewater treatment facility
with subsurface disposal of the effluent if the population to be served exceeds
fifteen (15) persons or the system is intended to serve more than one building.
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system with
subsurface absorption of the effluent, the owner shall first obtain a written
permit signed by the director. The application for such permit shall be made on
a form furnished by the village, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
director. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the village at the time
the application is filed.
A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until
the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the director or building
commissioner. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
director or building commissioner when the work is ready for final inspection,
and before any underground infrastructure is covered.
The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of the state of Illinois private sewage
disposal licensing act and code and the state of Illinois environmental
protection agency. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in section
8-6-7-1 of this chapter a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material. The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the village.
No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
8-6-7-3: CONNECTIONS TO THE WASTEWATER FACILITIES:
   A.   No person shall construct a new wastewater source and connect same to
the wastewater facilities of the village without first making application to
the village clerk for the privilege of making said connection and to have a
written permit approved by the director and to pay all fees.
   B.   Persons desiring to construct a new waste source and connect same to
the wastewater facilities of the village shall, in addition to making
application, state the quantity, quality, and rate of discharge of the
wastewater to be discharged to the sewer. In the case of any fraudulent
representation on the part of the user, the payment will be forfeited and the
use of the sewer stopped. No permit will be issued until the permittee:
      1.   Pays the connection fees as prescribed in this section.
      2.   Secures a street opening permit in conformance with the provisions
of chapter 5 of this title.
      3.   Agrees to pay all costs of the installation including the connection
to the public sewer.
      4.   Agrees to give the director twenty four (24) hours' notice prior to
the start of any underground piping and when the underground piping will be
ready for inspection, except that no inspections will be made at times other
than during regular village working hours.
      5.   Agrees to pay all cost of inspection if such inspection is deemed
necessary by the director.
      6.   Agrees to secure and protect the village from any liability or
damage whatsoever for injury (including death) to any person or property and
files with the village liability insurance certificates.
   C.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
   D.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream wastewater
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   E.   No person shall make connection to roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other source of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is directly or indirectly
connected to a public sanitary sewer.
   F.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight.
   G.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: 1) for
residential and commercial service, and 2) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the village. The industry, as a
condition of permit authorization, shall provide information describing its
wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type of activity. (Ord. 89-04, 4-
3-1989)
   H.   Wastewater tap-on fees will be charged for connecting or tapping onto
the village's wastewater facilities. Such fees must be paid at the time of
application for the service. The fee shall be as follows:
 
Wastewater tap-on fee $6,325.00 per single-family unit
 
The costs per unit (tap) are based on an average daily water consumption of
three hundred fifty (350) gallons per day, or the equivalent to that used by a
single-family home. Tap-on requests for users other than single-family
residential will be charged a higher tap-on fee calculated as follows:
   Daily water usage x $18.07 per gallon
   (For example, a multi-family residential apartment building which has an
average daily water consumption of 900 gallons would pay a wastewater tap-on
fee of $16,263.00.)
Anticipated operational daily usage for other than single- family residential
construction shall be determined by the village at the time of building permit
and such fee shall be based upon reasonable and sound engineering data for
comparable users. (Ord. 06-13, 5-15-2006)
8-6-7-4: BUILDING SEWERS:
   A.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   B.   Old building sewer may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and tested by the director, to meet all
requirements of a new building sewer.
   C.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet (3') of any bearing wall. No building sewers
shall be installed in any place where they may be subject to freezing
temperatures unless adequate provision is made to protect them from frost.
Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings
or a manhole, as determined by the director.
   D.   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
   E.   No addition to or alteration of any building sewer shall be made or
caused to be made by any person without a permit from the village. No permit
shall authorize anything not explicitly stated in the application.
   F.   Persons connected to the sanitary sewer system through a building sewer
shall keep said building sewer in good repair, protect it from damage in any
manner, and prevent the entrance of uncontaminated waters. It shall be the duty
of the user to maintain the building sewer from the sanitary sewer main to the
building connection. If the user fails to properly maintain the building sewer,
the village shall have the authority to enter onto the property to maintain the
sewer and add the cost of said maintenance on the next sewer use bill or
terminate the service until proper maintenance is completed. Any repair to the
building service which requires the removal and replacement of the pavement of
a village street shall be the responsibility of the user. It shall be unlawful
to remove or repair any pavement without first securing a permit from the
village. The village shall not be responsible for the cost of any repairs to
the building sewer. There shall be no fee for the permit required in this
subsection.
   G.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village.
   H.   All excavation for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village of West
Dundee. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-7-5: USE OF THE WASTEWATER FACILITIES:
   A.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to the wastewater
facilities.
   B.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a watercourse
approved by the village. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters
may be discharged on approval of the village to a storm sewer or watercourse.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to the wastewater facilities:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either single or by iteration with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process constitute
a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard
in the receiving water of the wastewater treatment facilities.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater treatment facilities.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater treatment facilities such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails, paper dishes and cups, mild containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the village that such wastes can harm either the sewers, wastewater
treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream;
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
village will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the wastewater treatment plant, and maximum limits
established by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0 and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the wastewater treatment facilities exceeds the limits
established by the village for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.005 milligram per
liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the village in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligrams per liter at any time
except as permitted by the village in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the wastewater treatment
facilities;
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment
facilities effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   E.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this section, or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in chapter 1, EPA rules
and regulations, subchapter D, water programs part 128 - pretreatment
standards, federal register volume 38, no. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973, and
any amendments thereto, or the standards adopted by the Fox River water
reclamation district, and which in the judgment of the village, may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the village may: (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004
Code)
      1.   Reject the waters or wastes; or (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
      2.   Require pretreatment in accordance with the established general
pretreatment program of the Fox River water reclamation district and any
amendments thereto, subject to the review and approval of the village. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by wastewater charges.
If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the village and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   F.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the director they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the village, and shall be located as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   G.   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
   H.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type, and frequency of
laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the
village, but no less than once per year the industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with the federal, state, and local standards are being met. The
owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the
village at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the village. The
owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and reporting
required by the village. At such times as deemed necessary, the village
reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside
laboratory service.
   I.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the wastewater treatment facilities and
to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24 hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.)
   J.   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
prohibiting any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with this chapter, by the industrial concern, provided such payments
are in accordance with federal and state guidelines for "user charge system and
industrial cost recovery system". (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-8: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
8-6-8-1: BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the village of West Dundee shall consist of a user
charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement, a debt service charge, a
surcharge, if applicable, and such other charges as the village deems
necessary. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-8-2: USER CHARGE:
The user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/
or flow meters. It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus
replacement and shall be computed as follows:
   A.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and maintain
the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year.
   B.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
   C.   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility category by
volume, SS, and BOD, if possible.
   D.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons of normal domestic
wastewater.
   E.   The user charge is computed by dividing the number of units of flow of
wastewater from all sources into the annual revenue required less the estimated
surcharge payments to be received. The resultant charge is expressed in dollars
per thousand gallons of wastewater. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-8-3: SURCHARGE:
A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the normal
concentrations for BOD two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) and/or SS
two hundred forty milligrams per liter (240 mg/l). The concentration of the
wastes used for computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling.
Waste sampling shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the
village and shall be binding as a basis for computing surcharges. The number of
pounds of BOD and SS from each user subject to a surcharge shall be computed as
follows:
   BOD (pounds) per day = (Average analysis for quarter in mg/l - 200) x
average daily flow in MG x 8.34.
   SS (pounds) per day = (Average analysis for quarter in mg/l - 240) x average
daily flow in MG x 8.34.
The unit cost per pound of BOD and SS shall be the unit cost or the actual
costs for the previous fiscal year. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-8-4: DEBT SERVICE CHARGE:
A debt service charge will be levied to all users for payment of the annual
debt service. The charge shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service
by the estimated amount of wastewater to be billed for the next fiscal year
expressed in one thousand (1,000) gallon units. The resultant charge is
expressed in dollars per thousand gallons of wastewater. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-8-5: OTHER CHARGES:
The village may declare a rate to provide funds for such other costs as may be
applicable to the wastewater facilities. Such rate, if established, shall be
based on volume of wastewater billed and shall be applicable to all users.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
8-6-8-6: MEASUREMENT OF FLOW:
The volume of flow used for computing user charges shall be the metered water
consumption. Where reference is made to wastewater discharged to the wastewater
facilities, it shall mean metered water except where estimated flow from
domestic users is allowed as defined herein.
If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any part, or
all, of his water from sources other than the water facilities, all or a part
of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person shall install and
maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by the village for
the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from these other
sources. Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged (flow meters) may
be required by the village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
the metered water consumption records. Metering devices for determining the
volume of waste (flow meters) shall be installed, owned, and maintained by the
person. Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed,
unless service is canceled, without the consent of the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-
3-1989)
8-6-9: RATES, CHARGES AND BILLING:
8-6-9-1: CLASSIFICATION OF ACCOUNTS:
The village of West Dundee shall classify utility users of the village of West
Dundee "residential" or "commercial". For the purposes of this section the term
"residential" shall be defined as any residential dwelling unit which contains
three (3) or less dwelling units. "Commercial" for the purposes of this section
shall be defined as any nonresidential dwelling or property use; or any
residential dwelling or property use which contains four (4) or more dwelling
units. All users shall be billed bimonthly, except as provided. (Ord. 89-04, 4-
3-1989)
8-6-9-2: RATES FOR WATER AND SEWER SERVICE:
There shall be and there are hereby established rates or charges for the use of
and for water service supplied by the Village of West Dundee within the Village
limits and for sewer service supplied by the Village of West Dundee based on
the amount of water billed, as shown on the water meters within or on each
property. These rates shall go into effect on all bills issued on or after May
1, 2025 outlined as follows:
Rates for Bills Issued on or After May 1, 2025
(FY 2025/26):
Rates for Bills Issued on or After May 1, 2025
(FY 2025/26):
Residential Users - Bi-Monthly Billing
Distribution Fee                    $32.88 per bill
Capital Improvements Fee            $15.45 per bill for consumption up to
                                    10,000 gallons
Capital Improvements Fee            $17.95 per bill for consumption 11,000
                                    to 20,000 gallons
Capital Improvements Fee            $20.45 per bill for consumption over
                                    20,000 gallons
Capital Improvements Fee Additional $5.00 per unit
Charge for Each Unit Over One
!EPA Loan Fee                       $8.74 per bill for consumption up to
                                    10,000 gallons
IEPA Loan Fee                       $10.16 per bill for consumption 11,000
                                    to 20,000 gallons
IEPA Loan Fee                       $11.57 per bill for consumption over
                                    20,000 gallons
!EPA Loan Fee Additional Charge for $5.00 per unit
Each Unit Over One
Water usage 1,000 - 4,000 gallons   $5.77 for each 1,000 gallons
(Level 1)
Water usage 5,000 - 10,000 gallons  Level 1 fee plus $6.35 for each 1,000
(Level 2)                           gallons
Water usage 11,000 - 20,000 gallons Levels 1 and 2 fees plus $7.45 for each
(Level 3)                           1,000 gallons
Water usage over 20,000 gallons     Levels 1, 2 and 3 fees plus $7.69 for
(Level 4)                           each 1,000 over 20,000
Sewer usage 1,000 - 4,000 gallons   $5.77 for each 1,000 gallons of water
(Level 1)                           used
Sewer usage 5,000 - 10,000 gallons  Level 1 fee plus $6.35 for each 1,000
(Level 2)                           gallons of water used
Sewer usage 11,000 - 20,000 gallons Levels 1 and 2 fees plus $7.45 for each
(Level 3)                           1,000 gallons of water used
Sewer usage over 20,000 gallons     Levels 1, 2 and 3 fees plus $7.69 for
(Level 4)                           each 1,000 over 20,000 used
Commercial Users - Bi-Monthly Billing
Distribution Fee                    $32.88 per bill
Capital Improvements Fee            $15.45 per bill for consumption up to
                                    10,000 gallons
Capital Improvements Fee            $17.95 per bill for consumption 11,000
                                    to 20,000 gallons
Capital Improvements Fee            $20.45 per bill for consumption over
                                    20,000 gallons
Capital Improvements Fee Additional $5.00 per unit
Charge for Each Unit Over One
IEPA Loan Fee                       $8.74 per bill for consumption up to
                                    10,000 gallons
IEPA Loan Fee                       $10.16 per bill for consumption 11,000
                                    to 20,000 gallons
IEPA Loan Fee                       $11.57 per bill for consumption over
                                    20,000 gallons
IEPA Loan Fee Additional Charge For $5.00 per unit
Each Unit Over One
Water usage 1,000 - 4,000 gallons   $5.89 for each 1,000 gallons
(Level 1)
Water usage 5,000 - 10,000 gallons  Level 1 fee plus $6.48 for each 1,000
(Level 2)                           gallons
Water usage 11,000 - 20,000 gallons Levels 1 and 2 fees plus $7.56 for each
(Level 3)                           1,000 gallons
Water usage over 20,000 gallons     Levels 1, 2 and 3 fees plus $7.81 for
(Level 4)                           each 1,000 over 20,000
Sewer usage 1,000 - 4,000 gallons   $5.89 for each 1,000 gallons of water
(Level 1)                           used
Sewer usage 5,000 - 10,000 gallons  Level 1 fee plus $6.48 for each 1,000
(Level 2)                           gallons of water used
Sewer usage 11,000 - 20,000 gallons Levels 1 and 2 fees plus $7.56 for each
(Level 3)                           1,000 gallons of water used
Sewer usage over 20,000 gallons     Levels 1, 2 and 3 fees plus $7.81 for
(Level 4)                           each 1,000 over 20,000 used
 
Residential/Commercial Meter Size Charge, Bi-Monthly Charge
Residential/Commercial Meter Size Charge, Bi-Monthly Charge
5/8"   $0.00
3/4"   $0.00
1"     $4.79
1-1/2" $10.78
2"     $40.98
3"     $50.92
4"     $83.21
6"     $151.36
8"     $600.00
 
(Ord. 2018-04, 4-16-2018; amd. Ord. 2019-06, 4-15-2019; Ord. 2021-18, 6-7-2021;
Ord. 2025-25, 4-28-2025)
8-6-9-3: MINIMUM CHARGE FOR WATER/SEWER SERVICE:
   A.   There shall be a minimum bimonthly charge for water and/or sewer
services, regardless of consumption as follows:
 
May 1, 2003 - April 30, 2004 $22.15
May 1, 2004 - April 30, 2005 22.80
May 1, 2005 - April 30, 2006 23.50
 
(Ord. 2003-21, 6-2-2003)
8-6-10: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. The Village may revoke any permit for
sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the Village by reason of such violation. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 7
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-7-1: Definitions
8-7-2: General Policy
8-7-3: Water System
8-7-4: Cross Connection Prohibited
8-7-5: Survey And Investigations Of Cross Connection Devices
8-7-6: Where Protection Is Required
8-7-7: Type Of Protection Required
8-7-8: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-7-9: Inspection And Maintenance Of Backflow Prevention Devices
8-7-10: Booster Pumps
8-7-11: Violations
8-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
these regulations:
   AGENCY: Illinois environmental protection agency.
   APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the research
foundation for cross connection control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
plumbing code and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building's plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
      Direct Cross Connection: A cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
      Indirect Cross Connection: A cross connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
   NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 604.
   PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance alteration or
extension of a plumbing system. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge of pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois
administrative code 604 for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
   B.   Process waters;
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
   D.   Cooling waters;
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems;
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for fire fighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. A public water supply is either a "community water supply" or a
"noncommunity water supply".
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross connection control devices and methods located within
that customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 95-07, 3-6-1995)
8-7-2: GENERAL POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   B.   Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the village of West Dundee.
   C.   Policy: The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the director of public works or his
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the director of public works
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his/her own expense;
failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in subsection
8-7-5D4 of this chapter for a period of at least five (5) years. The director
of public works may require the consumer to submit a cross connection
inspection report to the village of West Dundee to assist in determining
whether or not service line protection will be required. All cross connection
inspections shall be conducted by a cross connection control device inspector
(CCCDI) certified by the Illinois environmental protection agency. (Ord. 95-07,
3-6-1995)
8-7-3: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: 1)
the public water supply system and 2) the consumer's water system.
   B.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the director of public works up to
the point where the consumer's water system begins.
   C.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   D.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   E.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use. (Ord. 95-07, 3-6-1995)
8-7-4: CROSS CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the Illinois
environmental protection agency. There shall be no arrangement or connection by
which an unsafe substance may enter a supply. (Ord. 95-07, 3-6-1995)
8-7-5: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS OF CROSS CONNECTION DEVICES:
   A.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
   B.   On request by the director of public works, or his authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer's premises. The consumer's
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the director of public works
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross connection inspection results.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3(1).
   D.   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow into
the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   Removal Or Approved Installation: All cross connections are removed;
or approved cross connection control devices are installed for control of
backflow and back siphonage.
      2.   Installation Instructions: Cross connection control devices shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Inspection: Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at
the time of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the
state of Illinois as a cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The
inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      4.   Testing And Records:
         a.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         b.   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4(e).
         c.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)   Date of each test.
            (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test.
            (3)   Test results.
            (4)   Repairs or servicing required.
            (5)   Repairs and date completed.
            (6)   Service performed and date completed. (Ord. 95-07, 3-6-1995)
8-7-6: WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving premises,
where in the judgment of the director of public works, actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply system exist.
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the director of public works and
the source is approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the director of public works.
      3.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the director of public works and/or the cross connection control device
inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
   C.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the director
of public works determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public
water supply system exists:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.   Car washes.
      11.   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks. (Ord. 95-07, 3-6-
1995)
8-7-7: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   The type of protection required under subsections
8-7-6B1, B2, and B3 of this chapter shall depend on the degree of hazard which
exists as follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   B.   The type of protection required under subsections
 8-7-6B4 and B5 of this chapter shall be an approved fixed proper air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device.
   C.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   D.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines. (Ord.
95-07, 3-6-1995)
8-7-8: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the research foundation for cross connection
control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   B.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on site. (Ord. 95-07, 3-6-1995)
8-7-9: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions.
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days. (Ord. 95-07, 3-6-1995)
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been licensed by the
state of Illinois as a CCCDI. Proof of licensure shall be in writing. (Ord. 95-
07, 3-6-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs. A copy
of the inspection form signed by the licensed inspector shall be forwarded to
the West Dundee department of public works.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by subsection A of this section.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
director of public works. (Ord. 95-07, 3-6-1995)
8-7-10: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the director of public
works, at least once a year, that the device is operable. (Ord. 95-07, 3-6-
1995)
8-7-11: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The director of public works shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
director of public works, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device
has been removed or bypassed, or if a low pressure cutoff required by these
regulations is not installed and maintained in working order.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with
these regulations and to the satisfaction of the director of public works, and
the required reconnection fee is paid. (Ord. 95-07, 3-6-1995)
   C.   Neither the village of West Dundee, director of public works, or its
agents or assigns shall be liable to any customers of the village of West
Dundee for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from
termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of
this chapter, whether or not said termination of the water supply was with or
without notice.
   D.   The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   E.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, shall
be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time state in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   F.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter in addition
to the fine provided, shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss
or damage occasioned by the village by reason of such violations, whether the
same was caused before or after notice. (Ord. 95-07, 3-6-1995; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 8
TREES
SECTION:
8-8-1: Applicability; Intent
8-8-2: Definitions
8-8-3: Standards And Specifications
8-8-4: Pruning Regulations
8-8-5: Removal Of Trees
8-8-6: Tree Preservation During Construction
8-8-7: Village Authority
8-8-8: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-8-9: Penalty
8-8-1: APPLICABILITY; INTENT:
   A.   Applicability: Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to all trees in the village and shall
apply to such other tree related matters as is stated herein. The village shall
have the right and the authority to impose the regulations of this chapter on
all applicants, owners, developers and other persons who place, own or maintain
trees in the village, including, without limitation, the authority to review
and approve tree species, tree pruning, locations and spacing under all
circumstances. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this
chapter and other provisions of this code or any other village code or
ordinance, the provision deemed by the village manager to be most protective of
promoting the proliferation and maintenance and care of trees shall apply and
control.
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of this chapter to promote increases in the
quality of trees and tree care in the village and to promote increases in tree
populations in the village whenever practicable. (Ord. 03-31, 8-4-2003)
8-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, terms, whether capitalized or not, used
herein are defined as follows:
   DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (DBH): The diameter of a tree measured at four and
one-half feet (41/2') above existing grade.
   PARK TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation located in
any park property owned by the village.
   STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation located
within any village street, alley or other public right of way.
   TOPPING: The severe cutting back of limbs of a tree to stubs larger than
three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown, and shall mean such
cutting as would remove the tree's normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   VILLAGE ARBORIST: The certified arborist, as certified by the International
Society of Arboriculture, appointed by the public works director or the village
manager, to manage and maintain the village's urban forest. (Ord. 03-31, 8-4-
2003)
8-8-3: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Tree Species: The village shall maintain a list of acceptable tree
species, to be used when planting in village owned rights of way and on any
other village owned property. This list will consist of species currently
deemed satisfactory by the tree commission and/or the village arborist. This
list of trees, and no others unless approved by the tree commission, are hereby
approved for planting as street trees within village owned rights of way and on
other village owned property. Copies of this list shall be made available by
the public works administration office.
   B.   Tree Spacing: The spacing of street trees shall be no less than forty
feet (40') between plantings. Street trees shall be planted as close to the
minimum spacing standard as possible. The public works director may reduce the
minimum spacing standards set forth herein for special planting areas designed
or approved by a landscape architect.
   C.   Planting Distances:
      1.   Curbs And Sidewalks: Trees shall be planted a minimum of two feet
(2') from all curbs, curb lines and sidewalks. Parkways, as measured from the
back of the curb to the closest edge of the sidewalk, smaller than four feet
(4'), shall not be suitable for parkway trees unless approved by the village
arborist. Trees planted on parkways where a sidewalk exists shall be centered
between the back of the curb and the closest edge of the sidewalk.
      2.   Corners And Fire Hydrants: No street tree shall be planted closer
than thirty five feet (35') to any street corner, measured from the point of
nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street tree shall be planted
closer than ten feet (10') to any fire hydrant, unless the location is
previously approved by the public works director.
      3.   Utilities: No street tree other than those listed as acceptable tree
species in the public works administration file, shall be planted under or
within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead utility wire. Nor shall any tree
other than a small tree be planted over or within five (5) lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other underground
utility. (Ord. 03-31, 8-4-2003)
8-8-4: PRUNING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Site Clearance: The owner of any tree on private property that
overhangs any street or right of way within the village shall prune the
branches of such tree, if necessary, so that such tree shall not obstruct the
safe passage of vehicles, the light from any street lamp, the view of any
street sign or the view of any street intersection. The owner also shall prune
such tree so that there is a minimum of ten feet (10') of clear space between
the surface of the street or a minimum clear space of eight feet (8') between
the surface of the sidewalk and the lowest hanging branch on such tree. The
failure to so prune is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. If the owner
fails or refuses to accomplish such pruning within fourteen (14) days after
written notice to do so from the public works director, or his designee, the
village shall have the right, but not the obligation, to cause such pruning to
be accomplished by village staff, or by contractors hired by the village for
such purposes. If the owner fails to pay to the village all of the costs
incurred by the village for such clearance pruning within thirty (30) days
after receipt of a written invoice, then the village shall have the right, to
the extent provided by law, to place a lien on the property on which such tree
was located and to perfect such lien as provided by law.
   B.   Individual Safety: The individual owner of any tree overhanging any
street or right of way within the village shall prune all dead, diseased,
decaying, broken or dangerous branches from such tree and shall prune from such
tree all branches that constitute a menace to the safety of the public or to
the health of any other tree. The failure to so prune is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance. If the owner fails or refuses to accomplish such pruning
within fourteen (14) days after written notice to do so from the public works
director, or his designee, the village shall have the right, but not the
obligation, to cause such pruning to be accomplished by village staff or by
contractors hired by the village for such purposes. If the owner fails to pay
to the village all of the costs incurred by the village for such safety pruning
within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written invoice, then the village
shall have the right, to the extent provided by law, to place a lien on the
property on which such tree was located and to perfect such lien as provided by
law.
   C.   Utility Safety: Pursuant to its franchise agreement with the village,
any utility may apply to the village to prune trees located in the village for
safety purposes. Prior to doing so the utility must file an application for a
tree trimming permit with the tree commission, which will consider and make a
determination whether to grant the application. The application shall contain:
      1.   The name of the applicant;
      2.   The location of the pruning (commonly known addresses) where trees
are proposed to be pruned;
      3.   A written statement setting forth the reason for the tree pruning;
      4.   The pruning standards to be followed by the applicant, which
standards shall be in accordance with the village's official tree plan and
approved by the tree commission; and
      5.   The name, address and qualifications of the contractor or other
person(s) who will have the responsibility for tree pruning. (Ord. 03-31, 8-4-
2003)
8-8-5: REMOVAL OF TREES:
   A.   General Requirements: The owner of any tree in the village that
constitutes a hazard to life or property or that harbors harmful insects or
disease constituting a threat to other trees shall remove such tree within
sixty (60) days after written notice to do so from the public works director,
or his designee. The failure to remove such tree is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance. If the owner fails or refuses to accomplish such removal
within the required time period, the village shall have the right, but not the
obligation, at the owner's expense, to cause such tree to be removed by village
staff or by contractors hired by the village for such purposes. If the owner
fails to pay to the village all of the costs incurred by the village for such
removal within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written invoice, then the
village shall have the right, to the extent provided by law, to place a lien on
the property on which such tree was located and to perfect such lien as
provided by law. No person, except those authorized or employed by the village,
shall remove, destroy, break, cut, deface, trim or in any way injure or
interfere with any tree growing in any street or right of way without the
written permission of the village arborist.
   B.   Tree Removal Permits:
      1.   No Building Permit Required: In the event a tree removal permit is
applied for in connection with work for which no building permit is required,
there shall be no charge for such permit. The application for a tree removal
permit shall contain:
         a.   Name of applicant;
         b.   Commonly known address of the lot or property where said tree or
trees are proposed to be removed is located (PIN of parcel if tree is in an
undeveloped area of the village);
         c.   A written statement indicating the reason for removing the tree
or trees;
         d.   A general description of other trees on the lot, including size
and species; and
         e.   Name and address of contractor or other person who will have the
responsibility for tree removal.
      2.   Building Permit Required: In the event a tree removal permit is
applied for in connection with construction requiring a building permit, the
application shall be accompanied by:
         a.   The tree removal permit fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per
twenty five (25) acres or portion thereof (i.e., 26 acres, $50.00 permit fee);
         b.   A tree survey of the lot, which shall be drawn on a scale of not
less than one inch equals thirty feet (1" = 30'), and shall show trees having a
DBH of ten inches (10") and larger, including a listing of species. In the
event construction activity is to take place in the root zone of such trees,
protected trees on adjoining lots should be shown;
         c.   A tree preservation plan in conformance with the requirements of
section
8-8-6 of this chapter; and
         d.   A report from a certified arborist if required by the village
arborist. (Ord. 03-31, 8-4-2003)
8-8-6: TREE PRESERVATION DURING CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Tree Preservation Plan: In connection with projects involving the
construction of new homes, additions or detached accessory buildings requiring
building permits, a tree preservation plan shall be filed with the building
permit application in order to assure that all buildings and other structures
shall be located upon a lot or parcel of land in such a way as to minimize tree
damage and/or removal, consistent with the various setback requirements of the
village zoning ordinance. The tree preservation plan shall specify the
following:
      1.   Tree preservation area and building activity area upon the lot or
parcel of land for which a building permit application has been filed; and
(Note: The tree preservation area shall be protected physically from the
building activity area by a barrier to prevent penetration of construction
vehicles, materials, spoils and equipment into or upon the tree preservation
area.)
      2.   The general contractor, who shall be responsible for the
construction, erection and maintenance of temporary fencing or other physical
barrier around tree preservation areas so that all trees in tree preservation
areas shall be preserved.
   B.   Tree Removal Permit: A tree removal permit will be issued only in the
event the village finds that all reasonable efforts have been undertaken in the
architectural layout and design of the proposed development to preserve
existing trees. No building permit will be issued unless the tree preservation
plan has been filed with the building permit application and approved by the
village arborist.
   C.   Protection Of Trees: During construction all reasonable steps necessary
to prevent the destruction or damaging of trees (other than those specified to
be removed) shall be taken, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   No construction activity, movement and/or placement of equipment or
material or spoils storage shall be permitted outside the building activity
area or within the tree preservation area. No excess soil, additional fill,
liquids or construction debris shall be placed within the root zone of any tree
that is required to be preserved;
      2.   Crushed limestone, hydrocarbons and other materials detrimental to
trees shall not be dumped within the root zone of any tree, nor at any higher
location where drainage toward the tree could conceivably affect the health of
the tree;
      3.   Appropriate protective fencing shall be temporarily installed for
protection of remaining trees;
      4.   All required protective fencing or other physical barrier must be in
place and approved by the village arborist prior to beginning construction. The
fencing must remain in place during the entire construction period to prevent
the impingement of construction vehicles, materials, spoils and equipment into
or upon the tree preservation area. All fencing must be secured to metal posts
driven into the ground spaced no further than ten feet (10') apart;
      5.   No attachments, fences or wires, other than those approved for
bracing, guying or wrapping, shall be attached to trees during the construction
period;
      6.   Other measures such as construction pruning and root pruning of
trees directly impacted by construction must also by indicated on the plan or
on an accompanying sheet and approved by the village arborist; and
      7.   Unless otherwise authorized by the tree removal permit, no soil is
to by removed from within the root zone of any tree that is to remain.
   D.   Failure To Abide; Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to fail to abide by the terms of any tree preservation plan
pursuant to which a building permit or tree removal permit has been issued.
   E.   Stop Work Order: If, in the opinion of the village arborist, the
necessary precautions as specified in the tree preservation plan were not
undertaken before construction commenced, or are not maintained at any time
during construction, a stop work order shall be issued by the building
commissioner until such time as the permittee complies with the precautions
herein.
   F.   Road Construction: Tree preservation during road construction shall be
strictly enforced. Specific requirements of tree preservation during road
construction are available from the village arborist. (Ord. 03-31, 8-4-2003)
8-8-7: VILLAGE AUTHORITY:
   A.   Care For Trees:
      1.   The village and its authorized agents shall have the right, but not
the obligation, to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs
within the village as may be necessary to ensure public safety, preserve and
enhance the quality of vegetation, and beautify the village. The village also,
for the same purposes, may prune or remove all portions of any tree or shrubs
that overhang any village property, village right of way or utility easement.
      2.   The village may cause to be removed as soon as practical any tree on
village property or within village right of way that is diseased or dying, or
that poses an irreconcilable threat to a utility or that otherwise threatens
the public health, safety or general welfare.
      3.   Guidelines set forth by the National Arborist Association will be
used for tree trimming and maintenance activities performed by the village or
its agents.
   B.   Interference With Village Tree Work: No person shall prevent, delay or
in any other way interfere with work undertaken by the village and its
authorized representatives to plant, cultivate, mulch, prune, spray or remove
any street tree, park tree or other tree as authorized by this chapter. (Ord.
03-31, 8-4-2003)
8-8-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Topping Prohibited: No person shall cause or allow the topping of any
tree on village property or within any village right of way provided, however,
that the village may permit the topping of a tree under exceptional
circumstances, such as when the tree has been severely damaged by a storm or
other cause, or when topping is otherwise the only practicable action.
   B.   Tampering: No person shall damage, deface, mutilate or otherwise
intentionally damage any tree growing in any street or right of way, nor shall
any person attach or place any rope, wire, sign, poster, handbill or other
thing on any tree growing in any street, right of way, or any guard or
protection of the same. No person shall remove, injure or misuse any guard or
device placed or intended to protect any tree growing in any street or right of
way. (Ord. 03-31, 8-4-2003)
8-8-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense, plus the village's
cost of prosecution including reasonable attorney fees, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation continues
to occur. Further, a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each tree
injured, removed, destroyed or for any undertaking of any procedure, the result
of which is to cause the death or substantial destruction of any tree, within
the village limits, having a diameter of ten inches (10") DBH or larger. (Ord.
03-31, 8-4-2003)
CHAPTER 9
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purpose And Scope
8-9-2: Definitions
8-9-3: Annual Registration Required
8-9-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
8-9-5: Action On Permit Applications
8-9-6: Effect Of Permit
8-9-7: Revised Permit Drawings
8-9-8: Insurance
8-9-9: Indemnification
8-9-10: Security
8-9-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
8-9-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
8-9-13: General Construction Standards
8-9-14: Traffic Control
8-9-15: Location Of Facilities
8-9-16: Construction Methods And Materials
8-9-17: Vegetation Control
8-9-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
8-9-19: Cleanup And Restoration
8-9-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
8-9-21: Variances
8-9-22: Penalties
8-9-23: Enforcement
8-9-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights of way and the village as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights of way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased storm water runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the village's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights of way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of
way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
   ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
   APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
   COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE: The municipal code of the village of West Dundee.
   CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of
a right of way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The village director of public works or his or her
designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER: The village engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this chapter.
For purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any
facility owned or operated by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
village engineer/director of public works to pose an unreasonable and imminent
risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological
balance of the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives,
radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons,
etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
   HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
101 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and
video competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
   IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
   JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
   JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
   OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right of way.
   PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to
sections
8-9-4 and
8-9-5 of this chapter.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
   PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village.
If no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include
any real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include village buildings, fixtures
and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated
in the right of way.
   ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
8-9-10 of this chapter.
   SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the
federal communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as
now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in
making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois
cable and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201
(v).
   VILLAGE: The village of West Dundee.
   WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 07-44, 11-
5-2007)
8-9-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the director of public works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in section
 8-9-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 07-44,
11-5-2007)
8-9-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any village
right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the right of way (as defined in this chapter), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the village director of public works and obtaining a
permit from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the
right of way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
8-9-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in section
8-9-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
8-9-21 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control and the metropolitan water reclamation
district or other local or state entities with jurisdiction, have been
satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00). No
application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is
paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee act. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the village
director of public works within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application does not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the village director of public works shall
reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the
village director of public works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms
to the requirements of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws,
rules, and regulations, the village director of public works shall issue a
permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty
of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the village director of
public works, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in
full compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The village
director of public works shall specify the portion of the right of way upon
which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the village director of public works fails to
provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either: a) ten (10) days after service of notice to the village by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section
8-9-4 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the village with such village
representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights of way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with section
8-9-21 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section.
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products- completed operations coverage
with limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village President, or Manager of such intent to
cancel or not to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the village director of public works, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs that the village estimates are
likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where
the construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the village director
of public works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee
to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of
the construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-
2007)
8-9-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such removal to
the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of
this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the village or
its designee may, at the option of the village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 07-44, 11-
5-2007)
8-9-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the village director of public works shall determine, in the exercise
of sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall
be final. If requested, the village director of public works shall state which
standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation
of a facility in the future. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
8-9-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the village director of public works determines
that the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any
of the village's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the
operation or maintenance of any of the village's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets reasonably available by the facility owner, regardless of location,
for the particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 07-
44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the village
director of public works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or
jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of
boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after
boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be
clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the village director of public works.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the director of public works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
director of public works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
8-9-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the director of public works.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service    18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by village)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communication lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the engineer/director of public works. With the
approval of the engineer/director of public works, shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for
ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the village director of
public works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right of way
prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public
or an obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and
other property. If material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval
must be obtained from the village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the director of public works
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of construction
are those set forth in title 6, chapter 5 of this code.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 07-44,
11-5-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
8-9-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the director of public works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or
upon, the rights of way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the village director of
public works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the
public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights of way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the village director of public works. Such
cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right of way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may be
extended by the village director of public works for good cause shown. (Ord.
07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
village director of public works or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the village director
of public works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The village director of public works
shall decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this
chapter identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The village director of public
works may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the village director of public works may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the village
director of public works under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
right to appeal to the village board, or such other board or commission as it
may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
village clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order,
requirement, decision or determination. The village board shall commence its
consideration of the appeal at the board's next regularly scheduled meeting
occurring at least seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The village
board shall timely decide the appeal. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the village
will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
8-9-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-44, 11-5-2007)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
ARTICLE A. BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Building Code Adopted
9-1A-2: Building Permits
9-1A-3: Inspections
9-1A-4: Certificate Of Use And Occupancy
9-1A-5: Nonconforming Buildings
9-1A-6: Hazardous Building Or Condition
9-1A-7: Fences
9-1A-8: Penalty
9-1A-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to the authority granted by Title 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/13-2, the Village of West Dundee hereby adopts by
reference, as criteria for the issuance of construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair and installation permits the provisions of the published
2021 International Building Code including appendix B, H, I, J and K with the
following amendments:
   Section 101.1 These regulations shall be known as the Building Code of [NAME
OF JURISDICTION], hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
      Insert: Village of West Dundee as NAME OF JURISDICTION
   Section 101.4.3 The provisions of the International Plumbing Code shall
apply to the installation, alterations, repairs and replacement of plumbing
systems.
      Delete: International Plumbing Code
      Insert: Latest edition of the Illinois State Plumbing Code, All further
reference to the International Plumbing Code shall be converted to mean
Illinois State Plumbing Code.
   Section 103.1 The department of building safety is hereby created and the
official in charge thereof shall be known as the building official.
      Replace: department of building safety with department of community
development.
   Section 105.2 Work exempt from permit
      Delete: No 1; No 2; No. 4; No. 6; No. 8 and No. 12
   Section 113.1 In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or
determinations made by the building official relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of
appeals. The board of appeals shall be appointed by the applicable governing
authority and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of
procedure for conducting its business and shall render all decisions and
findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the building
official.
      Delete text: The board of appeals shall be appointed by the applicable
governing authority and shall hold office at its pleasure.
      Insert text: The board of appeals shall be the Village Board.
      Insert text: Applications for appeal shall be accompanied by such plans
or data, or both and shall include a statement in writing by the applicant or
adequate facts showing that the requested appeal is within the board’s
authority as stipulated in Section 113.2.
   Section 113.3 Qualifications. The board of appeals shall consist of members
who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to
building construction and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
      Delete: Entire section
   Section 903.2 Approved automatic sprinkler systems in new buildings and
structures shall be provided in the locations described in Sections 903.2.1
through 903.2.12.
      Insert text: “, all use groups other than residential greater than 4,000
square feet in size and all Groups A, R, H and I regardless of size”.
   Section 903.4.1 monitoring. Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be
distinctly different and shall be automatically transmitted to an approved
supervising station or, when approved by the fire code official, shall sound an
audible signal at a constantly attended location.
      Delete text: supervising station or, when approved by the fire code
official, shall sound an audible signal at a constantly attended location.
      Insert text: dispatch center via an approved agency as determined by the
Fire Code Official.
   Create Section 907.1.4-Monitoring. All locations which have a fire alarm
system shall send the required signal to an approved dispatch center via an
approved agency as determined by the Fire Code Official.
   Section 907.2-Where required. An approved fire alarm system installed in
accordance with the provisions of this code and NFPA 72 shall be provided in
new buildings and structures in accordance with sections 907.2.1 through
97.2.23 and provide occupant notification in accordance with section 907.5,
unless other requirements are provided by another section of this code.
      Delete text: in new buildings and structures in accordance with sections
90.2.1 through 907.2.23
      Insert text: in all locations which have fire suppression, are required
to have a fire suppression system or any use group greater than 2,500 sq ft
   Create Section 1015.2.2 Retaining walls. Retaining walls creating a grade
change of 30 inches or greater located 2 feet or less to walking surface,
pedestrian area, parking lot or driveway on the high side shall be provided an
approved protective barrier.
   Create Section 1209.2.1 Multiple tenant buildings. Attic access openings
must be protected by means of a latching device operable only from the inside
of the tenant space.
   Section 1705.17  Special inspections shall be required for all EIFS
applications.
      Delete Exceptions:
         1.   Special inspections shall not be required for EFIS applications
installed over a water-resistive barrier with a means of draining moisture to
the exterior.
         2.   Special inspections shall not be required for EFIS applications
installed over masonry or concrete walls.
   Section 1807.1.4 Permanent wood foundation systems.
      Delete: Entire section
   Section B101.2 Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the
building official to the board. An application for appeal shall be based on a
claim that the intent of this code or the rules legally adopted hereunder have
been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or
an equally good or better form of construction is proposed. The application for
appeal shall be filed on a form obtained from the building official within 20
days after the notice was served.
      Add text: The fee for such application shall be the same as the fee
schedule for a zoning variation application.
(Ord. 14-31, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 8-21-2023)
9-1A-2: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, extend,
repair or remove any building or structure without first having secured a
permit therefore from the building official. Except that ordinary repairs to
buildings may be made without application or notice to the building official;
but such repairs shall not include the cutting away of any wall, partition or
portion thereof, the removal or cutting of any structural beam or bearing
support, or the removal or change of any required means of egress, or
rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the exit way requirements; nor
shall ordinary repairs include addition to, alteration of, replacement or
relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas,
soil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring or mechanical or other
work affecting public health or general safety, or to recover or replace roof
coverings, or exterior wall coverings; nor shall ordinary repairs mean any
installation of fencing or decks.
   B.   Application: No permit shall be issued until an application has been
submitted and approved by the building official.
      1.   The application shall be provided by the village and contain
information as required by the building code. The application shall be deemed
incomplete unless all information requested is provided.
      2.   Plan review, required plans and specifications shall be submitted
with the application for review along with the applicable plan review fee.
      3.   Permits shall not be issued prior to a completed and approved plan
review.
      4.   When a permit has been issued the owner or his agent shall display
the permit card on the job site facing the street on which the property is
addressed.
      5.   An approved set of plans and specifications shall be kept on the job
site and made available to village inspectors.
      6.   Suspended or abandoned work; all permits shall become invalid if the
authorized work is not completed within six (6) months. If work is progressing
satisfactorily, the building commissioner may authorize extensions to the
original permit for an additional six (6) month period, but in no circumstances
may the permit be extended for more than twelve (12) calendar months from its
initial issuance.
      Any building permit extension in excess of twelve (12) calendar months
must be authorized with the consent and approval of the president and board of
trustees.
      The president and board of trustees may impose payment of an extension
fees as per the extension fee schedule approved by the President and Board of
Trustees.
      7.   All developers of new development, as defined in Kane County road
improvement impact fee ordinance, are required to submit with their building
permit application a copy of their receipt of payment reflecting payment of the
Kane County road improvement impact fee.
   C.   Work without Permit:
      1.   Notice of Violation:
         a.   If work is done or is in progress without a permit, the building
official shall issue a violation notice. This violation notice shall be in
writing to the owner and contractor, and require all work to stop.
         b.   The violation notice shall contain the name of the owner of the
property and his address, the address of the building in violation, the name of
the contractor and his address, a date for submission of plans and application
for permits. Such compliance date shall be no sooner than twenty four (24)
hours from violation notice issued, no more than forty eight (48) hours from
violation notice issuance.
         c.   When an owner or contractor in violation makes application for
permit, he shall agree to conform to all codes of the village, and to follow
the plan review and building permit application procedures, and pay two (2)
times the regular permit fee.
      2.   Failure to Meet Compliance Date on Correction Notice:
         a.   Reinspection of property in violation shall be required.
         b.   Inspector shall contact owner or contractor in violation when
there has been partial or no compliance. Such contact shall be verbally and
also in writing within forty eight (48) hours of the reinspection.
         c.   Notification shall recommend to the owner or contractor a course
of action based on reinspection and facts supplied by the owner or contractor.
Such notification shall establish a reasonable compliance date and provide for
reinspection on compliance date.
         d.   Reinspection process shall be repeated as long as satisfactory
progress and good faith are demonstrated by the violator. The first
reinspection shall be at no charge, additional reinspections shall be subject
to fees as per Chapter 2 of Title 9.
         e.   If compliance cannot be not demonstrated, the village attorney
shall prepare and file the complaint.
   D.   Fees: Building permit fees shall be as provided in chapter 2 of this
title.
(Ord. 14-31, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 8-21-2023)
9-1A-3: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   From time to time during the progress of permitted work, the building
official shall cause an inspection to be made for the purpose of ascertaining
that such work is being done in accordance with plans and specifications
submitted as provided in section 9-1A-2 of this chapter, and a written report
of such inspection shall be filed with, and made a part of, the record of the
job.
   B.   For the purpose of making such inspection, the official or his deputy,
agent or any other employee of the village shall be permitted to enter upon
premises where the work is being done at any and all reasonable times.
   C.   Inspections shall be carried out by the building official or his duly
appointed agent in the following manner:
      1.   After completing construction to an inspection point, the general
contractor telephones the Community Development department and makes a request
for inspection. Request must be twenty four (24) hours prior to desired
inspection.
      2.   If the construction is approved and it is not the final inspection,
the building official will notify the contractor that construction may proceed.
Careful inspection shall be made of the location of buildings for conformity to
site plan, in addition to the building inspection. If the construction is
approved and it is the final inspection, the building official will issue a
certificate of occupancy or a certificate of completion.
      3.   If the construction is not approved, the building official prepares
an inspection report listing the necessary corrections required to pass the
requested inspection.
      4.   The applicable portions of the above building inspection procedure
are repeated as often as necessary until the completion of the final building
inspection.
(Ord. 14-31, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 8-21-2023)
9-1A-4: CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Occupancy Certificate Required: No building, or addition thereto,
constructed after the effective date hereof and no addition or major alteration
to a previously existing building shall be used or occupied, and no land vacant
on the effective date hereof shall be used for any purpose until and unless an
occupancy certificate has been issued by the building official. No change in
use or occupancy in any business, commercial or industrial district shall be
made nor any new use or occupancy established in any such district until an
occupancy certificate has been issued by the building official. Every occupancy
certificate shall state that the use or occupancy complies with all the
provisions of the building code.
   B.   Application for Occupancy Certificate: Every application for a building
permit shall also be deemed to be an application for an occupancy certificate.
Every application for an occupancy certificate for a new or changed use of land
or building where no building permit is required shall be made directly to the
building official.
   C.   Posting Of Occupancy Certificate: Every occupancy certificate required
hereunder by virtue of a change in use or occupancy in a business, industrial
or commercial zoning district shall be permanently posted in a prominent place
on the premises at all times.
(Ord. 14-31, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 8-21-2023)
9-1A-5: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS:
Except as provided in this section, existing buildings, when altered or
repaired as herein specified, shall be made to conform to the full requirements
of the building code for new buildings:
   A.   Alterations Exceeding Fifty Percent: If alterations or repairs are made
within any period of twelve (12) months, costing in excess of fifty percent
(50%) of the physical value of the building, the entire building shall meet all
requirements prior to the issuance of occupancy permits.
   B.   Damages Exceeding Fifty Percent: If the building is damaged by fire or
any other cause to an extent in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the physical
value of the building before the damage was incurred, the entire building shall
meet all code requirements prior to the issuance of occupancy permits.
   C.   Alterations Under Fifty Percent: If the cost of alterations or repairs
described herein is between twenty five percent (25%) and fifty percent (50%)
of the physical value of the building, the building official shall determine to
what degree the portions so altered or repaired shall be made to conform to the
requirements for new buildings. In making this determination, the building
official shall consider the use and occupancy of the building, and the type of
building materials and other related matters.
   D.   Alterations Under Twenty Five Percent: If the cost of alterations or
repairs described herein is twenty five percent (25%) or less of the physical
value of the building, the building commissioner shall permit the restoration
of the building to its condition previous to damage or deterioration with the
same kind of materials as those of which the building was constructed;
provided, that such construction does not endanger the general safety and
public welfare.
   E.   Increase in Size: If the building is increased in floor area or number
of stories, the entire building shall be made to conform with the requirements
of the building code in respect to means of egress, fire safety, light and
ventilation.
   F.   Part Change In Use: If a portion of the building is changed in
occupancy or to a new use group and that portion is separated from the
remainder of the building with the required vertical and horizontal fire
divisions complying with the fire grading in said building code, then the
construction involved in the change shall be made to conform to the
requirements for the new use and occupancy and the existing portion shall be
made to comply with the exit way requirements of the building code.
   G.   Physical Value: In applying the provisions of this section, the
physical value of the building shall be determined by the building official and
be based on current replacement costs.
(Ord. 14-31, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 8-21-2023)
9-1A-6: HAZARDOUS BUILDING OR CONDITION:
A building or part or appurtenance thereof or a construction condition found to
be hazardous to life, limb or health, upon order of the building official or
enacting authority, shall be corrected, repaired, replaced, vacated, demolished
or removed and the premises or work restored to or put in a safe condition
within a reasonable period of time, as may be appropriate in each case, when
such a finding has been made in writing, written notice of the findings and
order has been given the owner or his agent or the contractor, and, except in
emergencies, a hearing on the order has been held before the building official.
(Ord. 14-31, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 8-21-2023)
9-1A-7: FENCES:
   A.   Definition: A “fence” shall be defined as a structure forming a barrier
between lots or between a lot and a street or an alley.
   B.   Permit And Fees: Building permit fees shall be as provided in chapter 2
of this title. No person shall construct or maintain any fence or portion
thereof unless a permit therefor shall first have been secured. Application for
a permit shall be made to the community development department and the
applicant shall furnish plans and specifications showing the work to be done
and the location of the proposed fence on the owner’s premises. Upon payment of
all fees, the building official shall cause a permit to be issued.
   C.   Specifications:
      1.   No fence shall be allowed on any part of a front yard, except as
provided in 4 of this section.
      2.   Fences may be erected to a height not exceeding five feet (5') from
ground level, except as provided in division C.4. of this section.
      3.   Fences must be erected so that the posts and all other supporting
members face to the owner’s side. The rough part of the frame shall face the
owner’s property.
      4.   On corner lots within the R-3 zoning district only, fences shall be
allowed in a front yard abutting a street provided that the fence is located
within that portion of the yard between the rear lot line and the rear line of
the principal structure on such lot. Such fence shall also be subject to the
following regulations:
         a.   With the exception of wrought iron fencing, the fence may be
erected to a height not exceeding four feet (4') from ground level.
         b.   Fence shall be constructed in such a manner that the pickets and/
or vertical components shall be no less than fifty percent (50%) open.
         c.   A maximum of four inches (4") shall be maintained between pickets
and/or vertical components.
         d.   The following styles and materials shall be prohibited:
chainlink, masonry, wire panel and split rail. Masonry materials may be used
for fence post construction.
         e.   Fence shall be oriented in such a manner that the finished side
faces the public right of way and adjacent property.
         f.   Material and placement for such fencing shall be reviewed and
approved by the Appearance Review Commission as detailed in
2-2-5B6.
   D.   Prohibited Materials: The following materials are prohibited for use as
a fence: barbed wire, chicken wire, welded wire, woven wire unless in panel
construction encased in rot resistance wood framing, of a gage measuring not
more then eleven, finished with casing and post caps designed to be decorative,
wood snow fence, plastic snow fence, plastic safety or barrier fence, and any
materials added to an existing fence which would extend the height of the
existing fence. Chainlink fence or solid plastic fencing shall not be permitted
in side yards parallel or facing the street on the address side, and in rear
yards on corner lots parallel or facing to the intersecting street. This does
not include any yard, or property line that is not immediately adjacent to any
street frontage.
(Ord. 2015-22, 10-5-2015; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 8-21-2023)
9-1A-8: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided herein, any person who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this building code, including provisions adopted by
reference, or who refuses to remedy a violation of any such provision or to
remedy a hazard of fire, explosion, collapse, contagion or spread of infectious
disease found to exist and duly ordered eliminated, shall be fined as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, with each day such violation continues
constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. 14-31, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE B. MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-1B-1: Mechanical Code Adopted
9-1B-2: Mechanical Permits
9-1B-3: Inspections
9-1B-4: Penalty
9-1B-1: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to the authority granted by Title 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2, the Village of West Dundee hereby adopts by
reference, as criteria for the issuance of construction, reconstruction,
alteration or installation permits, the provisions of the published 2021
International Mechanical Code with the following amendments:
   Section 101.1 These regulations shall be known as the Mechanical Code of
[NAME OF JURISDICTION], hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
      Insert: Village of West Dundee as the NAME OF JURISDICTION
   Section 103.1 The [NAME OF DEPARTMENT] is herby created and the official in
charge thereof shall be known as the code official.
      Insert text: Community Development Department
   Section 109.6 Fee refunds
      Delete: Entire section
   Section 114.3 Qualifications.
      Delete: Entire section
   Section 115.4 [SPECIFY OFFENSE] [AMOUNT] [NUMBER OF DAYS]
      Insert text: misdemeanor
      Insert text: $500
      Insert text: 30
   Section 301.11 Potable water supply and building drainage system connections
to equipment and appliances regulated by this code shall be in accordance with
the International Plumbing Code.
      Delete text: International Plumbing Code
      Insert text: Illinois State Plumbing Code
   Create Section 302.6 Safe pan installation. An approved safe pan shall be
provided for any water heater, clothes washing machine or HVAC equipment
installed above the basement level of a structure. Safe pans shall be connected
to a properly vented 2" floor drain or be provided with an automatic sensor
capable of disconnecting power to the unit.
   B.   One copy of the international mechanical code, adopted herein by
reference, shall be filed in the community development department and there
kept available for public use, inspection and examination. In the event that
any provision of the international mechanical code is in conflict with any
provision of any ordinance of the village, the village ordinance shall prevail
and conflicting provision of said code shall be of no effect.
   C.   Regulations Adopted By Reference: The published books or pamphlets
described and referred to in subsection A of this section and the regulations
and standards contained therein or in the described portions thereof, modified
in some cases as noted herein, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this mechanical code. In the event of a conflict between this code, or any
part thereof, and such regulations and standards adopted by reference, the
provisions of this code shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. 14-27, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 8-21-2023)
9-1B-2: MECHANICAL PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, extend,
repair or remove any structure without first having secured a permit therefore
from the building official. Except that ordinary repairs to buildings may be
made without application or notice to the department of community development;
but such repairs shall not include the cutting away of any wall, partition or
portion thereof, the removal or cutting of any structural beam or bearing
support, or the removal or change of any required means of egress, or
rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the exit way requirements; nor
shall ordinary repairs include addition to, alteration of, replacement or
relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas,
soil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring or mechanical or other
work affecting public health or general safety, or to recover or replace roof
coverings, or exterior wall coverings.
   B.   Application Procedure: The issuance of building permits shall follow
the procedures established in subsection 9-1A-2B of this chapter.
   C.   Work without Permit:
      1.   Notice of Violation:
         a.   If work is done or is in progress without a permit, the building
official shall issue a violation notice. This violation notice shall be in
writing to the owner and contractor, and require all work to stop.
         b.   The violation notice shall contain the name of the owner of the
property and his address, the address of the building in violation, the name of
the contractor and his address, a date for submission of plans and application
for permits. Such compliance date shall be no sooner than twenty four (24)
hours from violation notice issued, no more than forty eight (48) hours from
violation notice issuance.
         c.   When an owner or contractor in violation makes application for
permit, he shall agree to conform to all codes of the village, and to follow
the plan review and building permit application procedures, and pay two (2)
times the regular permit fee.
      2.   Failure to Meet Compliance Date on Correction Notice:
         a.   Reinspection of property in violation shall be required.
         b.   Inspector shall contact owner or contractor in violation when
there has been partial or no compliance. Such contact shall be verbally and
also in writing within forty eight (48) hours of the reinspection.
         c.   Notification shall recommend to the owner or contractor a course
of action based on reinspection and facts supplied by the owner or contractor.
Such notification shall establish a reasonable compliance date and provide for
reinspection on compliance date.
         d.   Reinspection process shall be repeated as long as satisfactory
progress and good faith are demonstrated by the violator; reinspection fees
shall apply as per Chapter 2 of this title.
         e.   If compliance cannot be demonstrated, the village attorney shall
prepare and file the complaint.
   D.   Fees: Permit fees shall be as provided in chapter 2 of this title.
(Ord. 14-27, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-23,8-21-2023)
9-1B-3: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   From time to time during the progress of permitted work, the building
official shall cause an inspection to be made for the purpose of ascertaining
that such work is being done in accordance with plans and specifications
submitted as provided in section
9-1A-2 of this chapter, and a written report of such inspection shall be filed
with, and made a part of, the record of the job.
   B.   Every elevator, dumbwaiter, escalator, hoist and lift now in operation
or which may hereinafter be installed together with the hoistway and all
equipment thereof shall be inspected under and by the authority of the
community development department at least once every six (6) months, and in no
case shall a new unit be placed in operation until an inspection has been made.
   C.   It shall be the joint duty of the owner, agent, lessee or occupant of
the building in which such unit is located and of each person in charge or
control of such unit to frame the certificate of elevator inspection signed by
the building official and place same in a conspicuous place in each elevator or
on each escalator hoist or dumbwaiter.
(Ord. 14-27, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023--23,8-21-2023)
9-1B-4: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided herein, any person who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this mechanical code, including provisions adopted by
reference, or who refuses to remedy a violation of any such provision or to
remedy a hazard of fire, explosion, collapse, contagion or spread of infectious
disease found to exist and duly ordered eliminated, shall be fined as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, with each day such violation continues
constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. 14-27, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-23, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE C. PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-1C-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
9-1C-2: Plumbing Permits
9-1C-3: Inspections
9-1C-4: Penalty
9-1C-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to the authority granted by Title 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2, the Village of West Dundee hereby adopts by
reference, as criteria for the issuance of construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair and installation permits of any plumbing or sewer system the
provisions of the most current published State of Illinois Department of Public
Health regulations commonly known as the State Plumbing Code.
   B.   Regulations Adopted By Reference: The published books or pamphlets
described and referred to in subsection A of this section and the regulations
and standards contained therein or in the described portions thereof, modified
in some cases as noted herein, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this plumbing code. In the event of a conflict between this code, or any
part thereof, and such regulations and standards adopted by reference, the
provisions of this code shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 18-05, 4-16-2018; amd.
Ord. 22-17, 5-2-2022)
9-1C-2:   PLUMBING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, extend,
repair or remove any building or structure without first having secured a
permit therefore from the building official. Except that ordinary repairs to
buildings may be made without application or notice to the building department;
but such repairs shall not include the cutting away of any wall, partition or
portion thereof, the removal or cutting of any structural beam or bearing
support, or the removal or change of any required means of egress, or
rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the exit way requirements; nor
shall ordinary repairs include addition to, alteration of, replacement or
relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas,
soil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring or mechanical or other
work affecting public health or general safety, or to recover or replace roof
coverings, or exterior wall coverings.
   B.   Application Procedure: The issuance of building permits shall follow
the procedures established in section
9-1A-2 of this chapter.
   C.   Fees: Fees for permits shall as provided in
chapter 2 of this title.
   D.   Work without Permit:
      1.   Notice of Violation:
         a.   If work is done or is in progress without a permit, the building
commissioner shall issue a violation notice. This violation notice shall be in
writing to the owner and contractor, and require all work to stop.
         b.   The violation notice shall contain the name of the owner of the
property and his address, the address of the building in violation, the name of
the contractor and his address, a date for submission of plans and application
for permits. Such compliance date shall be no sooner than twenty four (24)
hours from violation notice issued, no more than forty eight (48) hours from
violation notice issuance.
         c.   When an owner or contractor in violation makes application for
permit, he shall agree to conform to all codes of the village, and to follow
the plan review and building permit application procedures, and pay two (2)
times the regular permit fee.
      2.   Failure to Meet Compliance Date on Correction Notice:
         a.   Re-inspection of property in violation shall be required; fees as
outlined in chapter 2 will apply.
         b.   Inspector shall contact owner or contractor in violation when
there has been partial or no compliance. Such contact shall be verbally and
also in writing within forty eight (48) hours of the re-inspection.
         c.   Notification shall recommend to the owner or contractor a course
of action based on re-inspection and facts supplied by the owner or contractor.
Such notification shall establish a reasonable compliance date and provide for
re-inspection on compliance date.
         d.   Re-inspection process shall be repeated as long as satisfactory
progress and good faith are demonstrated by the violator.
         e.   If compliance cannot be demonstrated, the village attorney shall
file a complaint. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 18-05, 4-16-2018;
amd. Ord. 22-17, 5-2-2022)
9-1C-3:   INSPECTIONS:
   A.   From time to time during the progress of permitted work, the building
official shall cause an inspection to be made for the purpose of ascertaining
that such work is being done in accordance with plans and specifications
submitted as provided in section
9-1A-2 of this chapter, and a written report of such inspection shall be filed
with, and made a part of, the record of the job.
   B.   For the purpose of making such inspection, the official or his deputy,
agent or any other employee of the village shall be permitted to enter upon
premises where the work is being done at any and all reasonable times.
   C.   Inspections shall be carried out by the building official or his duly
appointed agent as provided in section
9-1A-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-05, 4-16-2018; amd. Ord. 22-17, 5-2-2022)
9-1C-4:   PENALTY:
This plumbing code, including provisions adopted by reference, or who refuses
to remedy a violation of any such provision or to remedy a hazard of fire,
explosion, collapse, contagion or spread of infectious disease found to exist
and duly ordered eliminated, shall be fined as provided in the general penalty
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, with each day such violation continues
constituting a separate offense. (Ord. 18-05, 4-16-2018; amd. Ord. 22-17, 5-2-
2022)
ARTICLE D. ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-1D-1: Electrical Code Adopted
9-1D-2: Electrical Permits
9-1D-3: Inspections
9-1D-4: Penalty
9-1D-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to the authority granted by chapter 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2, the Village of West Dundee hereby adopts by
reference, as criteria for the issuance of construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair and installation permits the provisions of the published
2020 NEC with the following amendments:
   Article 210.8 Ground-Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection for Personnel
      Add article 210.8(A)(11) All lights located within the enclosure of a
shower or tub.
   Create Section 320.104(A) AC Cable run from a switch to a ceiling mounted
box, capable of ceiling mounted fan installation, shall contain a minimum of 3
insulated conductors of a type listed in Table 310.104 or those identified for
use in this cable.
   Create Section 330.104(A) MC Cable run from a switch to a ceiling mounted
box, capable of ceiling mounted fan installation, shall contain a minimum of 3
insulated conductors of a type listed in Table 310.104 or those identified for
use in this cable.
   Article 338 Service Entrance Cable: Type SE and USE
      Delete: Entire Article and any additional references in code.
   Article 340 Underground Feeder and Branch-circuit Cable: Type UF
      Delete: Entire Article and any additional references in code.
   Article 362 Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing: Type ENT
      Delete: Entire Article and any additional references in code.
   Create Article 408.54(A) Split Breakers. The use of split breakers used to
increase the number of available over current devices shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2017-15, 5-22-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-19, 8-21-2023)
9-1D-2: ELECTRICAL PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: No electrical system shall be installed or replaced in
a building or structure, nor shall an alteration of an existing system be made,
except in conformity with the provisions of this title and rules that may be
adopted and promulgated by the building official under the provisions of this
code, and permit first having been secured.
   B.   Application Procedure: The issuance of electrical permits shall follow
the procedures established in section
9-1A-2 of this chapter.
   C.   Work without Permit:
      1.   Notice of Violation:
         a.   If work is done or is in progress without a permit, the building
official shall issue a violation notice. This violation notice shall be in
writing to the owner and contractor, and require all work to stop.
         b.   The violation notice shall contain the name of the owner of the
property and his address, the address of the building in violation, the name of
the contractor and his address, a date for submission of plans and application
for permits. Such compliance date shall be no sooner than twenty four (24)
hours from violation notice issued, no more than forty eight (48) hours from
violation notice issuance.
         c.   When an owner or contractor in violation makes application for
permit, he shall agree to conform to all codes of the village, and to follow
the plan review and building permit application procedures, and pay two (2)
times the regular permit fee.
      2.   Failure to Meet Compliance Date on Correction Notice:
         a.   Reinspection of property in violation shall be required; fees
will apply as per Chapter 2.
         b.   Inspector shall contact owner or contractor in violation when
there has been partial or no compliance. Such contact shall be verbally and
also in writing within forty eight (48) hours of the reinspection.
         c.   Notification shall recommend to the owner or contractor a course
of action based on reinspection and facts supplied by the owner or contractor.
Such notification shall establish a reasonable compliance date and provide for
reinspection on compliance date.
         d.   Reinspection process shall be repeated as long as satisfactory
progress and good faith are demonstrated by the violator.
         e.   If compliance cannot be demonstrated, the village attorney shall
prepare and file the complaint.
   D.   Fees: Permit fees shall be as provided in chapter 2 of this title.
(Ord. 2017-15, 5-22-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-19, 8-21-2023)
9-1D-3: INSPECTIONS:
From time to time during the progress of permitted work, the building
commissioner shall cause an inspection to be made for the purpose of
ascertaining that such work is being done in accordance with plans and
specifications submitted as provided in section 9-1A-2 of this chapter, and a
written report of such inspection shall be filed with, and made a part of the
record of the job. For the purpose of making such inspection, the commissioner
or his deputy, agent or any other employee of the village shall be permitted to
enter upon premises where the work is being done at any and all reasonable
times. Inspections shall be carried out by the building official or his duly
appointed agent as provided in section 9-1A-3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-15, 5-22-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-19, 8-21-2023)
9-1D-4: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided herein, any person who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this electrical code, including provisions adopted by
reference, or who refuses to remedy a violation of any such provision or to
remedy a hazard of fire, explosion, collapse, contagion or spread of infectious
disease found to exist and duly ordered eliminated, shall be fined as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, with each day such violation continues
constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-15, 5-22-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-19, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE E. ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
9-1E-1: Energy Conservation Code Adopted
9-1E-2: Penalty
9-1E-1: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to the authority granted by 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-3-2, the village of West Dundee hereby adopts by reference, as
criteria for the issuance of construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair
and installation permits the provisions of the published Illinois Energy
Conservation Code, 71 Ill. Admin. Code 600.100 et seq., as it may be amended
from time to time, without amendments. (Ord. 14-25, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 22-18,
5-2-2022)
9-1E-2: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of the energy code
adopted in section
9-1E-1 of this article, including provisions adopted by reference, or who fails
to comply with any order issued pursuant to any section of the code, shall be
fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, with each day such violation continues
after a service of notice as provided for in the energy code, constituting a
separate offense. (Ord. 14-25, 8-4-2014)
ARTICLE F. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-1F-1: Property Maintenance Code Adopted
9-1F-2: Penalties
9-1F-1: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to the authority granted by Title 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2, the Village of West Dundee hereby adopts by
reference, as criteria for the minimum regulations governing the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings and structures: by providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for
occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use and the demolition of such structure the provisions of
the published 2021 International Property Maintenance Code with the following
amendments:
   Section 103.1 The [NAME OF DEPARTMENT] is hereby created and the official in
charge thereof shall be known as the code official.
      Insert text: Community Development Department
   Section 302.4 Weeds. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained
free from weeds or plant growth in excess of (jurisdiction to insert height in
inches). All noxious weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all
grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided;
however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
      Insert: 10" (ten) inches.
   Create section 302.7.1 Materials. Any enclosed, attached, or detached
accessory structure constructed of canvas, nylon, plastic, or other pliable
material supported by air, cables, tubing, metal, or wood framework shall be
prohibited.
   Section 304.1. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
   Add text: Whenever repair, replacement or maintenance of exterior structures
is required to comply with this section, such repair, replacement or
maintenance shall be completed to match, conform and be consistent with the
existing exterior structure.
   Create section 304.7.1 Location. Any method used which extends a storm water
discharge pipe more than 24" from a foundation must meet the following
conditions:
      1.   Termination of an extension can be no closer than 6' to any property
line
      2.   Termination of an extension must be located in front or rear yard
      3.   Multiple extensions can't be combined into a single discharge
location
      4.   A minimum distance of 10' must be maintained between individual
discharge terminations
   Section 304.14 Insect Screens. During the period from [Date] to [Date],
every door, window and outer outside opening required for ventilation of
habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas or any areas where
products to be included or utilized in food for human consumption are
processed, manufactured, packaged or stored shall be supplied with approved
tightly fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch.
   Insert: April 1st and September 30th
   Create Section 310 Signage.
   Create section 310.1 Illumination. Means of illumination shall be fully
operational to maintain illumination levels. Broken, missing or damaged
lighting devices must be replaced or repaired.
   Create section 310.2 Maintenance. Signs, sign panels and inserts must be
maintained free from holes, defects and missing parts.
   Section 602.3 Heat Supply. Every owner and operator of any building who
rents, leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms,
either expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall
supply heat during the period from [Date] to [Date] to maintain temperature of
not less than 68° F in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
   Insert: October 1st and May 1st
   Section 602.4 Work Spaces. Indoor work spaces shall be supplied with heat
during the period from [Date] to [Date] to maintain a temperature of not less
than 65° F during the period the spaces are occupied.
   Insert: October 1st and May 1st
(Ord. 14-28, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-21, 8-21-2023)
9-1F-2: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this property
maintenance code, including provisions adopted by reference, or who fails to
comply with any order issued pursuant to any section of the property
maintenance code, shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, with each day such violation continues
after a service of notice as provided for in the property maintenance code,
constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 14-28, 8-4-2014; Ord. 2023-21, 8-
21-2023)
ARTICLE G. RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
9-1G-1: Residential Code For One- And Two-Family Dwellings
9-1G-1: RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to the authority granted by Title 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2, the Village of West Dundee hereby adopts by
reference, as criteria for the issuance of construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair and installation permits of one and two family dwellings the
provisions of the published 2021 International Residential Code indulging
appendix AC, AD, AG, AH, AJ, AK, AN, and AO with the following amendments:
   Section R101.1 These provisions shall be known as the Residential Code for
One- and Two- Family Dwellings of [NAME OF JURISDICTION], and shall be cited as
such and will be referred to herein as “this code.”
      Insert: Village of West Dundee as the NAME OF JURISDICTION
   Create Section R102.7.2-Existing non-conforming. All existing materials,
defects or installations not meeting current code requirements that are
uncovered during the course of permitted work must be brought into code
compliance.
   Section R105.2 Work exempt from permit. Permits shall not be required for
the following work
      Delete: No. 1; No. 2; No. 4; No. 5; No 9; and No 10.
   Create Section R106.2.1 A plat of survey, prepared by a licensed surveyor,
shall be submitted after permitted work that increases the footprint of the
primary structure or the construction of a detached garage has been completed.
   Section R109.1.2 Rough inspection of plumbing, mechanical, gas and
electrical systems shall be made prior to covering or concealment, before
fixtures or appliances are set or installed, and prior to framing inspection.
      Delete text: “and prior to framing inspection”
   Section R112.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders,
decisions or determinations made by the building official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a board of appeals. The building official shall be an ex officio member
of said board but shall have no vote on any matter before the board. The board
of appeals shall be appointed by the governing body and shall hold office at
its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for conduction its
business, and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the
appellant with a duplicate copy to the building official.
      Delete text: The board of appeals shall be appointed by the applicable
governing authority and shall hold office at its pleasure.
      Insert text: The board of appeals shall be the Village Board
      Insert text: Applications for appeal shall be accompanied by such plans
or data, or both and shall include a statement in writing by the applicant or
adequate facts showing that the requested appeal is within the board’s
authority as stipulated in Section 112.2.
   Section R112.3 Qualifications. The board of appeals shall consist of members
who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to
building construction and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
      Delete: Entire section
   Create Section R115-SITE REQUIREMENTS
   Section R115.1 Sanitation. Approved portable sanitation facilities for all
workers shall be made available on site. Required sanitation facilities shall
be maintained by the providing agency.
   Section R115.1.1 Location. Portable sanitation facilities shall be located
entirely on private property of the lot where construction activity is being
performed.
   Section R115.2. Fencing. When required by the Building Official, all
construction sites shall be protected from unauthorized entry by a minimum 5
foot high chain link fence until such time that the house can be secured by
means of doors and windows.
   Section R115.2.1 Location. Required construction fencing shall be located on
the property line of the construction site.
   Create Section R202 New Construction. Construction of a dwelling unit where
no dwelling existed before, the demolition of an existing dwelling unit which
leaves only the foundation walls intact, an addition to an existing dwelling
unit that increases the building useable space (not including the basement) by
125%.
   Create Section R202 Historic Building. Building that are listed or eligible
to for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, or designated as
historic under appropriate state or local law.
Table R301.2(1).
 
Ground Snow Wind Design       Seismic Design Subject To Damage From
Load        Speed Topographic Category       Weathering Frost Line Termite
                  Effects                               Depth
25          90    No          B              Severe     42"        Moderate
 
 
Winter Design Ice Barrier
Temp          Underlayment Flood Hazards Air Freezing Index Mean Annual Temp
              Required
-4            Yes          Yes           1700               50
 
   Section 302.1 Exception: #2 Walls of dwelling units and accessory structures
located on the same lot.
      Delete: Exception #2
   Section R302.6 Dwelling/garage fire separation. The garage shall be
separated as required by Table R302.6. Openings in garage walls shall comply
with Section R302.5. The wall separation provisions of Table R302.6 shall not
apply to garage walls that are perpendicular to the adjacent dwelling unit
wall.
      Add text to title: Dwelling/shed/garage fire separation.
      Add text: The garage or shed shall be separated as required by Table
R302.6.
      Delete text: The wall separation provisions of Table R302.6 shall not
apply to garage walls that are perpendicular to the adjacent dwelling unit
wall.
   TABLE R302.6 DWELLING/GARAGE SEPARATION
      Add text: DWELLING/SHED/GARAGE SEPARATION
   TABLE R302.6 MATERIAL Not less than ½” gypsum board or equivalent applied to
the interior side of exterior walls that are within this area.
      Add text: All required gypsum board assemblies shall have a minimum of
one coat of joint compound applied to all seams.
   TABLE R302.6 SEPARATION
      Add entry: Sheds located less than 3 feet from a dwelling unit on the
same lot.
   TABLE R302.6 MATERIAL Not less than ½” gypsum board or equivalent applied to
the interior side of exterior walls that are within this area.
      Add text: All required gypsum board assemblies shall have a minimum of
one coat of joint compound applied to all seams.
      Add entry: Not less than ½” gypsum board or equivalent applied to the
interior side of exterior walls that are within this area.
   Section R302.7 Enclosed accessible space under stairs shall have walls,
under stair surface and any soffits protected on the enclosed side with ½”
gypsum board.
      Add text: All required gypsum board assemblies shall have a minimum of
one coat of joint compound applied to all seams.
   Create Section R309.6 Required doors. Openings provided for vehicle access
to the interior of attached and detached garages shall be provided with an
approved wooden or metal door.
   Section R310.1 Basements, habitable attics and every sleeping room shall
have at least one operable emergency and rescue opening.
      Change first sentence to: Basements, habitable attics, every sleeping
room and finished individual rooms in basements more than 175 square feet in
size shall have at least operable emergency and rescue opening.
   Create Section R311.7.13 Stairway Railings on Historic Homes. Grand
stairways and building entrances with wing walls shall be accepted without
complying with the handrail and guard requirements. Existing handrails and
guards at all stairs shall be permitted to remain, provided they are not
structurally dangerous.
   Create Section R312.1.1.1 Retaining walls. Retaining walls creating a grade
change of 30 inches or greater located 2 feet or less to a walking surface,
pedestrian area, parking lot or driveway on the high side shall be provided an
approved protective barrier.
   Section R313.2 Two-family dwellings automatic sprinkler systems. An
automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in two-family dwellings.
   Section R313.3 One-family dwelling automatic sprinkler systems. An automatic
sprinkler systems shall be installed in one-family dwellings.
   Exceptions:
      1.   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
for additions, alterations or accessory structures to existing buildings that
are not already equipped with an automatic residential sprinkler system
      2.   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
for new construction of detached one-family dwellings when all of the following
apply:
         a.   If at the time of permit application or during construction up to
the point of an approved insulation inspection, developer/builder has a
purchaser for the detached one-family dwelling, they must offer the purchaser
an option to install a sprinkler system in writing. Purchaser must either
accept or deny the offer of sprinkler system installation in writing and submit
to the Village before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued.
         b.   An approved domestic sprinkler head shall be strategically placed
above the burner side of the furnace and hot water tank in detached one-family
dwellings.
         c.   The underside of all interior stairs is protected with at least
1/2-inch type X gypsum wallboard membrane.
         d.   Each detached one-family dwelling unit has at least two means of
egress.
         e.   When wood I-joists or pre-fabricated trusses are used, they must
be protected by at least a ½-inch gypsum wallboard membrane or its equivalent.
   Section R319.1 Buildings shall have approved address numbers, building
numbers or approved building identification placed in a position that is
plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property.
      Add text: Buildings shall have approved address numbers, building numbers
or approved building identification attached to the building placed in a
position that is plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting
the property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
   Create Section R404.1.3.2.3 Openings. A minimum of two #5 rebar shall be
provided over the tops of all openings in foundation walls. Required rebar
shall extend a minimum of three feet past the opening on both sides.
   Create section R404.6.1 Reinforcement. All trench foundations require a
total of four #5 rebar. Two rebar to be located in the top third of the
foundation wall and two rebar to be located in the bottom third of the
foundation wall.
   Section R405.1 Drains shall be provided around all concrete or masonry
foundations that retain earth and enclose habitable or usable spaces located
below grade. Drainage tiles, gravel or crushed stone drains, perforated pipe or
other approved systems or materials shall be installed at or below the area to
be protected and shall discharge by gravity or mechanical means into an
approved drainage system.
         Exception: A drainage system is not required when the foundation is
installed on well-drained ground or sand-gravel mixture soils according to the
Unified Soil Classification System.
      Delete: All references to drainage tiles, gravel or crushed stone drains
      Delete: Exception
   Create Section R405.2.3.1 Location. Any method used which extends a storm
water discharge pipe more than 24" from a foundation must meet the following
conditions:
      1.   Termination of an extension can be no closer the 6' to any property
line
      2.   Termination of an extension must be located in front or rear yard
      3.   Multiple extensions can’t be combined into a single discharge
location
      4.   A minimum distance of 10' must be maintained between individual
discharge terminations
   Create Section R408.9 Height. Under floor spaces shall have a minimum clear
height of 36 inches. Clear height shall be measured from top of finished floor
to the underside of the floor joists above. Beams, girders, ductwork or
plumbing components are allowed to project into that area as long as a minimum
height of 24 inches remains under those projections.
   Create Section R408.10 Floor. All crawl spaces shall be provided with a
floor consisting of a 4 inch thick stone base covered with a continuous vapor
retarder topped by a minimum of two inches of concrete.
   Section R506.1 Concrete slab-on-ground floors shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the provisions of this section or ACI 332.
Floors shall be a minimum of 3.5 inches thick. The specific compressive
strength of concrete shall be as set forth in Section R402.2.
      Change text: 3.5 inches to 4-inches
   Section R506.2.2 A 4-inch thick base course consisting of clean graded sand,
gravel, crushed stone or crushed blast furnace slag passing through a 2-inch
sieve shall be placed on the prepared sub-grade when the slab is below grade.
         Replace text to: A 4-inch-thick compacted base course consisting of
clean graded crushed stone (CA6) or equal shall be placed on the prepared sub-
grade.
         Exception: A base course is not required when the concrete slab is
installed on well-drained or sand-gravel mixture soils.
      Delete: Exception
   Section R506.2.3 A minimum 10 mil vapor retarder conforming to ASTM E1745
Class A requirements with joints lapped not less than 6 inches shall be placed
between the concrete floor slab and the base course or the prepared sub grade
where no base course exists.
      Exception: The vapor retarder may be omitted:
         1.   From garages, detached garages, utility buildings and other
unheated accessory structures.
         Add text: From detached garages, utility building and other unheated
accessory structures.
   Create Section R703.9.3 Inspections: All EIFS installations shall be
inspected by an approved third party inspection agency to determine that
installation meets manufacture instructions. Copies of all reports shall be
presented to the building official for review.
   Create Section P2501.3 Detached Accessory Structures. Plumbing service shall
not be provided to any detached accessory structure. A variation may be
approved by the Board of Appeals for property owners seeking plumbing service
for legal uses such as home office, pool house, potting shed or other similar
uses but will not be permitted for dwelling units including “mother in law”
and/or “adult child” arrangements. Water and sewer service to an attached
accessory structure is permitted only when there is a traditional connection
with the principal structure including but not limited to common roof and
internal access. The definition of attached for this purpose does not include a
deck or a breezeway.
   Table P1905.4 WATER SERVICE PIPE
      Delete: All materials other than type K copper. Any further reference to
any material other than type K copper relating to water service shall be
deleted.
   Table P2906.5 WATER DISTRIBUTION PIPE
      Delete: Chlorinated Polyvinyl Chloride Plastic (CPVC), Copper (Type WK,
WL, M and WM), Galvanized Steel Pipe and Polypropylene Plastic Pipe (PP). Any
further reference to any deleted material relating to water distribution pipe
shall be deleted.
   Create: Section E3601.6.3 Service disconnect height. The service disconnect
switch, when in its highest position, shall not be located more than 5 feet
above the floor or working platform.
   Create Section E3706.4.1 Split breakers. Use of split breakers shall be
prohibited.
   Table E3801.2 ALLOWABLE WIRING METHODS
      Delete: Nonmetallic sheathed cable (NM), Service entrance cable (SE),
underground service cable (USE), Underground feeder cable (UF) and Electrical
nonmetallic tubing (ENT)
   Create Section E3902.1.1 Lighting. Lighting receptacles located within the
vertical wall of shower and tub enclosures shall be ground fault protected. All
bathrooms shall be provided with a minimum of one lighting outlet not connected
to the ground fault circuit.
   Create Section E4001.16 Food waste disposals. Disconnecting means for food
waste disposals shall be located inside the cabinet in which the disposal is
located.
   B.   Variations: The board of appeals is authorized to grant variations from
the provisions of this article only in situations where the property was
improved in compliance with all applicable codes and there is a subsequent
failure of a required system through no fault of the owner.
      1.   Procedure: Applications shall be filed with the board of appeals on
forms designated by the board of appeals. The application shall be accompanied
by such plans or data, or both, as specified by the board of appeals, and shall
include a statement in writing by the applicant or adequate facts showing that
the proposed variation will conform to the standards set forth herein for
variations.
      2.   Fee: A fee as established by the board of trustees shall be required
for filing an application for a variance.
      3.   Hearing on Application: Upon receipt in proper form of the
application and statement referred to above, the board of appeals shall hold at
least one public hearing on the proposed variation. Notice of such a hearing
shall be given by posting the agenda of the meeting of the board of appeals at
which the variation will be considered on the village’s website. However, the
board of appeals may continue the hearing from time to time without further
notices being given except by public announcement at the meeting and being
placed in the minutes of that meeting.
      4.   Standards: A variation shall be granted only if the evidence in the
judgment of the board of appeals sustains each of the following:
         a.   The plight of the owner was not created by the owner and is due
to unique circumstances causing hardship to the owner; and
         b.   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property or any person through whom
the applicant claims title;
         c.   The granting of the variation will not be substantially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or
improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located; or
         d.   The proposed variation will not otherwise endanger the public
safety, or substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood.
      5.   Decisions: All decisions of the board of appeals on any variation
request shall be put in writing and contain findings showing that the applicant
has met the standards set forth herein or state the reasons why the variation
is denied. The decision shall state the relief granted and may contain
conditions deemed appropriate to safeguard public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 14-33, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-22, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2023-29, 10-23-2023;
Ord. 2025-13, 3-3-2025)
ARTICLE H. ACCESSIBILITY CODE
SECTION:
9-1H-1: Illinois Accessibility Code
9-1H-1: ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY CODE:
Adoption: Pursuant to the authority granted by Title 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-3-2, the Village of West Dundee hereby adopts by reference, as
criteria for compliance to accessible standards for structures the Illinois
Accessibility Code as published and amended from time to time by the Illinois
Capital Development Board. (Ord. 14-24, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 22-19, 5-2-2022)
ARTICLE I. FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
9-1I-1: Fuel Gas Code Adopted
9-1I-1: FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Pursuant to the authority granted by Title 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2, the Village of West Dundee hereby adopts by
reference, as criteria for the issuance of construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair and installation permits the provisions of the published
2021 International Fuel Gas Code with the following amendments:
   Section 109.6 The code official shall authorize refunding of fees.
      Delete: Entire section
   Section 113.3 Qualifications.
      Delete: Entire section
   Section 114.1 Membership of Board.
      Delete: entire text
      Insert text: The board of appeals shall be the Village Board.
   Section 115.4 [SPECIFY OFFENSE] [AMOUNT] [NUMBER OF DAYS]
      Insert text: misdemeanor
      Insert text: $500
      Insert text: 30
(Ord. 14-26, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-20, 8-21-2023)
CHAPTER 2
SCHEDULE OF FEES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Fees Adopted
9-2-2: Fees
9-2-3: Exceptions
9-2-1: FEES ADOPTED:
The following schedule of fees is hereby adopted for the village of West Dundee
building department. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
9-2-2: FEES:
   A.   Plan Review Fee: Fees for plan review shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) plus as follows:
Cubic Feet Building Building Plumbing Mechanical Building/ Plumbing Mechanical/
                                                 Electrical
                                         Building Plumbing Building/ Plumbing
Cubic Feet         Building              Mechanical        Mechanical/
                                                           Electrical
Up to 60,000       $375.00               $ 575.00          $ 750.00
60,001  to 80,000  475.00                675.00            900.00
80,001  to 100,000 575.00                875.00            1,175.00
100,001 to 150,000 675.00                975.00            1,300.00
150,001 to 200,000 775.00                1,100.00          1,500.00
                   875.00 plus
200,001 plus       9.00 per              Building fee      Building fee
                   10,000                x 1.5             x 2.0
                   cubic feet
Minor residential remodel                $65.00
Footing and foundation                   25 percent of building review (minimum
                                         $375.00)
Commercial/industrial zoning             $120.00 per 20,000 square feet of site
                                         area
1 and 2 single-family dwellings:
        Up to 3,000 square feet          $850.00 per dwelling unit
        (including basement square feet)
        Over 3,000 square feet           $0.15 per square foot
        (including basement square feet)
Elevator plan review                     $450.00 per elevator bank
Hood and duct plan review                $350.00 per system
Spray booth plan review                  $400.00 per booth
Miscellaneous plan review                $175.00 per hour/one hour
Inground pool plan review                $500.00 per pool
Aboveground pool plan review             $100.00 per pool
NFPA 101 plan review                     25 percent of building review with a
                                         minimum of $250.00
Priority express review                  x 2.5 of base plan review
HPM, high hazard, processing piping      x 1.5 of base plan review
Fire code                                50 percent of review
Energy code                              50 percent of review
Fire suppression and detection systems:
Fire suppression systems (includes fire pump, hose stations and standpipes)
Hydraulically calculated
Number of sprinklers:
Up to 100          $400.00
101 to 200         500.00
201 to 300         625.00
301 to 500         735.00
Over 500           865.00
Pipe schedule (see miscellaneous plan review)
Alternate Fire Protection Systems:
        Carbon dioxide, clean agent      $125.00 ($0.80 each pound over 35
        systems                          pounds)
        Halon                            $135.00 up to 35 pounds ($2.50 each
                                         pound over)
                                         $165.00 first 15,000 square feet
        Fire detection and alarm system  (prorated every 15,000 square feet
                                         thereafter)
        Dry chemical                     $350.00 plus alarm fees
 
   B.   Building Permit Fee: The fee for any such permit and required
inspection shall be as follows:
1. Single-family dwelling and two-family dwelling:
 Fee - $2,000.00 per dwelling unit
2. Commercial buildings, multiple apartment buildings, motels and hotels:
 Fee - 3 percent of actual construction cost to $500,000.00
 1 1/2 percent of actual construction cost of $500,001.00 to $1,000,000.00
 1 percent of actual construction cost of $1,000,001.00 on up, with a minimum
  fee of $150.00
  Construction cost determined from actual construction contracts and/or
 established cost per square foot for the Chicago area by construction type
  published quarterly by BOCA.
3. Remodeling where inspection is required at the discretion of the building
commissioner:
 Fee - residential $75.00
 Fee - commercial  Same as subsection B2 of this section, but no less than
                    $150.00
 Inspections       As required by the building commissioner.
4. Garages:
 Fee - residential $75.00
 Fee - commercial  Same as subsection B2 of this section, but no less than
                    $150.00
5. Wrecking or removing building:
 Fee - residential $75.00
 Fee - commercial  Same as subsection B2 of this section, but no less than
                    $150.00.
6. Swimming pools:
 Fee - residential Aboveground $75.00
                  Inground $150.00
7. Satellite dish antennas (over 39 inches), antennas (over 12 feet in
height), fences, sheds:
 Fee -             $50.00
8. Insulation, reroofing, residing, sidewalks, decks, storage sheds:
 Fee - residential $50.00
 Fee - commercial  Same as subsection B2 of this section, but no less than
                    $150.00
9. Fireplaces:
 Fee - residential $50.00
 Fee - commercial  Same as subsection B2 of this section, but no less than
                    $150.00
 
   C.   Mechanical Permit Fee: The fee for any such permit and required
inspections shall be a follows:
      1.   Residential: Furnace, boiler, central air, pool heaters, solar
heaters - $50.00
      2.   Commercial buildings, multiple apartment buildings, motels and
hotels:
         Fee - 3 percent of actual construction cost to $500,000.00.
         11/2 percent of actual construction cost of $500,001.00 to
$1,000,000.00.
         1 percent of actual construction cost of $1,000,001.00 on up, with a
minimum fee of $150.00.
         Construction cost determined from actual construction contracts and/or
established cost per square foot for the Chicago area by construction type
published quarterly by BOCA.
         3 percent of actual cost of mechanical work - $150.00 minimum fee.
         Elevator, escalator, dumbwaiters, hoist - $65.00 per inspection.
         A minimum of 1 inspection each 6 months.
   D.   Plumbing Permit Fee: The fee for any such permit and required
inspections shall be as follows:
      1.   Residential: Water heater, sewer or water service line, clean out -
$50.00.
      2.   Commercial buildings, multiple apartment buildings, motels and
hotels:
         Fee - 3 percent of actual construction cost to $500,000.00.
         11/2 percent of actual construction cost of $500,001.00 to
$1,000,000.00.
         1 percent of actual construction cost of $1,000,001.00 on up, with a
minimum fee of $150.00.
         Construction cost determined from actual construction contracts and/or
established cost per square foot for the Chicago area by construction type
published quarterly by BOCA.
   E.   Electrical Permit Fee: The fee for any such permit and required
inspections shall be as follows:
      1.   Residential: New service, new panel, basement upgrade, and temporary
service - $50.00.
      2.   Commercial buildings, multiple apartment buildings, motels and
hotels:
         Fee - 3 percent of actual construction cost to $500,000.00.
         11/2 percent of actual construction cost of $500,001.00 to
$1,000,000.00.
         1 percent of actual construction cost of $1,000,001.00 on up, with a
minimum fee of $150.00
         Construction cost determined from actual construction contracts and/or
established cost per square foot for the Chicago area by construction type
published quarterly by BOCA.
   F.   Permit Extension Timeline, Fees, And Approval Process:
 
Extension Period Responsible For       Extension Fee Extension Process
                 Considering Extension
                                                     Building official
                                                     authorizes the first 6-
                                                     month extension. A letter
6 - 12 months    Building official     No fee        is sent to the permit
                 extension                           holder advising that all
                                                     future extensions will
                                                     require Village Board
                                                     approval.
                                                     A permit extension request
12 - 18 months   1st Village Board     $ 50.00       is submitted to the
                 extension                           President and Board of
                                                     Trustees for approval.
                                                     A permit extension request
18 - 24 months   2nd Village Board     100.00        is submitted to the
                 extension                           President and Board of
                                                     Trustees for approval.
                                                     A permit extension request
24 - 30 months   3rd Village Board     200.00        is submitted to the
                 extension                           President and Board of
                                                     Trustees for approval.
                                                     A permit extension request
30 - 36 months   4th Village Board     250.00        is submitted to the
                 extension                           President and Board of
                                                     Trustees for approval.
                                                     A permit extension request
36 - 42 months   5th Village Board     300.00        is submitted to the
                 extension                           President and Board of
                                                     Trustees for approval.
 
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2003-16, 4-21-2003; 2004 Code; Ord. 2017-21,
9-25-2017)
9-2-3: EXCEPTIONS:
Any fee otherwise required to be paid under section
9-2-2 of this chapter shall not apply to any "public agency". Any fee less than
three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) otherwise required to be paid under section
9-2-2 of this chapter shall not apply to any "religious organization". The term
"public agency" shall mean, for the purposes of this section, any unit of local
government as defined in the Illinois Constitution of 1970, any school
district, any public community college district, the State of Illinois, any
agency of the Illinois State government or of the United States, or of any
other state, any political subdivision of another state, or any combination of
the above pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement. The term "religious
organization" shall mean, for the purposes of this section, any church,
congregation or society formed for the purposes of religious worship and
incorporated under the Illinois Religious Corporation Act 1 . Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the public agency or religious organization shall be required to
pay in accordance with this section: a) any fee arising from the publishing or
mailing of legal notices by the Village; and b) the cost of the services of
planners, engineers, attorneys, or other persons not regularly on the Village
payroll for the purposes of reviewing the application or plans submitted by the
public agency or religious organization where the nature of the application
requires such notices or services, or both, as determined in the sole
discretion of the West Dundee Building Commissioner. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 110/0.01 et seq.
CHAPTER 3
GRADING
SECTION:
9-3-1: Grading And Leveling Of Lots
9-3-1: GRADING AND LEVELING OF LOTS:
   A.   Definition: The term "lot" or "lots" shall include any single tract of
real property owned by one or more persons, corporations, partnerships or
trusts within the corporate limits of the village whether or not said lot or
lots shall include thereon any improvements, structural or otherwise.
   B.   Declaration Of Public Nuisances: Pursuant to statutory authority
granted in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-30-8, no person, corporation,
partnerships or trusts owning any lot or lots of land or real estate within the
corporate limits of the village shall allow said lot or lots to remain ungraded
or uncompleted for a period of six (6) months from either the date of purchase
of said lot or lots, or from the date of commencement of any construction or
work thereon, if any of said portion of said lot shall include ungraded ridges
or mounds of dirt exceeding eighteen inches (18") in height from the general
surrounding terrain, except when said eighteen inch (18") height has been
created by terracing performed on the request of said owner or owners and
approved by the building department for the village, said condition to
constitute a public nuisance hereunder. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   C.   Penalty: A person convicted of a violation of any provisions of this
section shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense, each separate day during which
said offense continues shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose And Objectives
9-4-2: Definitions Of Terms
9-4-3: Types Of Signs; Definitions
9-4-4: Prohibited Signs
9-4-5: General Rules For All Signs
9-4-6: Signs Not Subject To Permit
9-4-7: Signs Requiring Sign Permit
9-4-8: Regulations By Location
9-4-9: Sign Design Criteria
9-4-10: Construction Specifications
9-4-11: Permit Requirements
9-4-12: Permit Review Procedures
9-4-13: Appeals And Exceptions
9-4-14: Nonconforming Signs
9-4-15: Enforcement And Penalties
9-4-1: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
The purpose of these sign regulations is to preserve, promote, and protect the
public health, safety and welfare, to preserve and enhance the physical
appearance of the village and to create an attractive economic and business
climate by regulating outdoor signs of all types.
The main purpose of a sign is to help people find what they need without
difficulty or confusion through the display of identification and information
but not advertising. These regulations are established to prevent an overload
of graphic message in the environment without restricting freedom of
expression. They also aim to reduce advertising distractions to help businesses
avoid the "canceling out" effect of adjacent signs.
These regulations establish standards for the erection, display, safety and
maintenance of signs to encourage the general attractiveness of the community
and to protect property values. They are intended to meet the following
objectives:
   A.   Business Climate: It is recognized that signs are an economical and
effective means of communicating information and are an important asset to most
businesses. The continued health of business and economic activities shall be
encouraged by the use of signs which:
      1.   Clearly and efficiently identify and classify the goods, services,
facilities, and locations available to the community.
      2.   Express the identity of business activities or the proprietors
associated with those activities.
      3.   Increase opportunities for planned developments to determine
policies for private signage.
   B.   Effective Communication: A reasonable, orderly and effective display of
signs is to be promoted by authorizing the use of signs, which are:
      1.   Legible in the circumstances in which they are viewed and in their
surroundings.
      2.   Recognizable as a necessary means of visual communication for the
convenience of the general public taken as a whole, as opposed to the
convenience of any individual person.
      3.   Communicate an image or a message about a business or service.
   C.   Preservation Of Village Character: West Dundee has a unique character
and quality of style. Sign control is part of a broader program of
comprehensive planning, scenic roadway enhancement, historic preservation,
planned development, and property maintenance. Therefore, signs should:
      1.   Promote a cohesive and aesthetic environment to promote the
character of the village as a whole.
      2.   Minimize the blighting influences of visual clutter, decay, and
neglect.
      3.   Protect the value and integrity of architectural resources and
preserve the character of the buildings and sites to which signs principally
relate. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS OF TERMS:
   ACCESS CONNECTION: Roadways, shared driveways, frontage drives, shared
access easements, interconnecting parking lots, or some other means which
encourages indirect access and circulation to abutting properties.
   ALTERATION: Any change of copy, sign face, color, size, shape, illumination,
position, location, construction, or supporting structure of any sign.
   ANIMATION: The presentation copy on signs displayed in a progression of
frames which give the illusion of motion, including, but not limited to, the
illusion of moving objects, moving patterns or bands of light, or expanding or
contracting shapes.
   AWNING: Any rooflike structure made of cloth, metal or other material
attached to the exterior wall of a building and erected over a window, doorway,
or wall which may be fixed and unable to be retracted or retractable to a
position against the building.
   CANOPY, ENTRANCE: A rooflike cover that projects from the wall of a building
over an entrance which is attached to a building and supported from the ground
up.
   CANOPY, FREESTANDING: A freestanding, projecting or detached, structure
which provides cover above an outdoor service area, such as at a gasoline
service station. A marquee is not a canopy.
   COMMERCIAL FRONTAGE: The linear footage of a lot facing a public street or
access connection owned or leased by a person, business or enterprise intended
for commercial usage. A building on an interior lot has one commercial
frontage, while a corner lot contains two (2) commercial frontages. In no case
shall there ever be more than two (2) commercial frontages for any one lot.
   COPY: Any combination of letters, numbers, symbols or images which is
intended to inform, direct or otherwise transmit information.
   COPY AREA: The area where any combination of letters, numbers, symbols or
images intended to inform, direct or otherwise transmit information copy is
displayed.
   DISPLAY AREA: The display surface area encompassed within any regular
geometric square, rectangle, circle or equilateral triangle which would enclose
all parts of the sign. For a wall sign where there is no defined sign
background the square footage shall be determined by multiplying the largest
horizontal width by the largest vertical height. The structural supports, trim
or other ornamentation shall not be considered part of the display area if it
is kept to a minimum to support the sign. If the structural supports are
ornamental in nature and determined to be a sign enhancement feature and not
part of the minimal support system, then these sections shall be considered
part of the display. In the case of a two (2) sided sign or double faced sign
where only one sign face is visible from each direction, the advertising
display area of only one side (or the larger side if different) shall be
calculated for the purposes of this chapter.
   ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, or affix and shall
also include the painting of wall signs.
   FACE: The area or display surface used for the message.
   GRAPHIC ELEMENT: Any word, symbol, number, logo, or other pictorial
representation that is used as copy.
   HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the lowest adjacent grade to the
highest point of the sign or sign structure.
   HISTORIC AREA: Generally described as all properties with frontage on Main
Street (Route 72) between the Fox River and Eighth Street (Route 31).
   ILLUMINATION: Shall refer to any source of artificial light used to
illuminate a sign, but may be divided into two (2) types:
Direct Illumination: Any source of artificial light either by means of exposed
tubing or lamps on its surface or by means of illumination transmitted through
transparent faces.
Indirect Illumination: Any surface which reflects light from a source
intentionally directed upon it, such as: floodlights, gooseneck reflectors, or
externally mounted fluorescent light fixtures.
   LARGE FOOTPRINT BUILDINGS: Commercial, industrial or office buildings with
at least thirty thousand (30,000) square feet of interior space.
   LINEAR FRONTAGE, BUILDING: That portion of building footage occupied by a
single business tenant having a public entrance within a building.
   LINEAR FRONTAGE, SITES: That portion of lot footage that parallels a public
road.
   LOT: A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used,
developed or built upon.
   LOT QUADRANT: One of four (4) sides of a lot when divided evenly
horizontally and vertically.
   MARQUEE: A permanent rooflike projection above a theater entrance that
usually displays a changeable message to provide details about a currently
featured entertainer, film, play or similar performance.
   MASTER SIGNAGE PLAN: A signage plan for one or more properties with signs
designed as an integral part of the site plan and architecture for the
development or redevelopment of property.
   ROOFLINE: The highest edge of the roof or the top of parapet, whichever
establishes the top line of the structure when viewed in a horizontal plane.
   SETBACK: The minimum distance required between any property line and any
portion of a sign or sign structure.
   SHOPPING CENTER: Two (2) or more separate businesses, utilizing a common
parking area, and being under single ownership or control. The businesses may
be in the same building or in more than one building, but must be located on
the same zoning lot.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE: A triangular shaped portion of land established at street
intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists
entering or leaving an intersection.
   SIGN ENHANCEMENT FEATURE: Any portion of a sign structure intended to
improve or draw attention to the physical appearance of a sign including roofs,
moldings, lattice, columns or other decorative features.
   SIGNAGE PLAN: A graphic representation showing a comprehensive detailed
presentation of all signage proposed for a particular lot.
   SPECIAL EVENT: An assembly or parade, mall attraction, merchant organized
function, held on public or private property which is open to the public and/or
where food and liquor sales would be permitted, and/or hours would be extended
past dusk, and/or corporate sponsorship would be allowed.
   STRING LIGHTS: Electric lights connected by a strand and designed to be
displayed on a temporary basis during holidays or festivals but not including
all outdoor architectural or landscaping enhancement lighting which are part of
a landscape or building elevation design and hardwired for permanent display.
   STRUCTURE: The supports, uprights, bracing, or framework of any structure
exhibiting a sign, be it single faced, double faced, or V-type or otherwise.
   TENANT SIGN CRITERIA: Standards regulating features of tenant signage within
a commercial center as determined by the owner or manager of the property.
   WALL AREA: The square footage of the front of the building or store unit,
computed by multiplying the linear frontage by the height extending from
finished grade to the exterior ceiling line of the first story.
   ZONING LOT: A parcel of land (whether legally described and subdivided as 1
or more lots or parts of lots) located within a single block, occupied by or
intended for occupancy, by one principal building or principal use and having
its principal frontage upon a street. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014)
9-4-3: TYPES OF SIGNS; DEFINITIONS:
   SIGN: Any surface, fabric, device, or display containing letters, words,
pictures, designs or combinations thereof used to identify, inform, advertise,
or promote the interest of any person, business, profession, product or service
when the same is placed in view of the general public. Included within the
definition of sign are the following types of signs:
   Abandoned Sign: Any sign that no longer identifies or advertises a location,
product, or activity conducted on the premises on which the sign is located.
   Advertising Sign: Any sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, or entertainment not exclusively related to the premises where such
thing is located or to which it is affixed.
   Awning Sign: Any sign with copy mounted, painted, or otherwise applied on or
attached to an awning.
   Balloon Or Inflatable Sign: Any airborne flotation device sign that directs
attention to a business, commodity, service, or entertainment conducted, sold,
or offered.
   Banner Sign: Any sign with or without copy, characters, letters,
illustrations or ornamentations applied to cloth, plastic, or fabric of any
kind but not including streetscape banners attached to municipal streetlights
or poles.
   Bench Sign: A seat or back of a seat with copy placed on or adjacent to a
public right of way.
   Billboard Sign: A sign, other than a permitted directional sign, which
directs attention to a business, commodity, service or activity not conducted,
sold or offered upon the premises where such sign is located.
   Blade Sign: A vertically oriented wall sign affixed to and projecting from
the wall and secured so movement does not occur.
   Building Marker Sign: Names of buildings, dates of construction,
commemorative tablets and the like carved into stone, concrete, or similar
material or made of bronze, aluminum, or other type of construction and made an
integral part of the building or structure.
   Bulletin Board Sign: Any sign of a bulletin board nature setting forth or
denoting the name of or simple announcement for any public, charitable,
educational or religious institutions when located on the premises of such
institution.
   Business Promotional Sign: A temporary sign announcing a special offer or
discount as the main message of the sign.
   Canopy Sign: Any sign attached to a freestanding canopy or onto an entrance
canopy.
   Car Sign: Any sign, not including license plates, painted on or attached to
a vehicle parked in such a manner to function like a sign as to direct
attention to a business, service, commodity, or entertainment that is located
on the premises or in the near vicinity of the premises. Signs on vehicles used
for transporting people or materials in the normal day to day operations of the
business shall be exempt when such vehicles are parked on private property in a
designated parking space servicing the business and being no farther than three
hundred feet (300') from its main entrance.
Changeable Copy Sign: Any sign that is designed so that characters, letters, or
illustrations can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or the
surface of the sign. Changeable copy signs can be divided into two (2) types:
   A.   Electronic: A series of individual light bulbs, when programmed and
lit, form letters, words, phrases, numbers or pictures that compose an
advertising, announcement, or other type of message. The message itself can be
changed from a remote terminal without otherwise altering or changing the face
of the sign.
   B.   Manual: A series of plastic, metal or other type material letters that
are manually arranged to form letters, words, phrases, numbers or pictures that
compose an advertising, announcement, or other type of message. The message
itself can only be changed manually by rearranging the components on the sign
itself, without otherwise altering or changing the face of the sign.
   Civic Event Sign: A temporary sign posted to advertise a civic event
sponsored by a public agency.
   Construction Sign; Public Roadway Or Utility: Any sign erected on premises
or off site during the period of active roadway or utility construction or
repair. Such signs shall be used for the purpose of wayfinding to promote
safety of pedestrians and motorists.
   Construction Sign; Site: Any temporary sign erected on the premises during
the period of active construction, alteration, or repair displaying only
information about the development and the names of architects, engineers,
contractors or similar information.
   Contractor Signs: Temporary signs of contractors or artisans displayed
during the period such contractors or artisans are performing work on the
premises on which such signs are displayed.
   Development Identification Sign: A sign which, by means of symbol or name,
but no additional copy identifies a shopping center, commercial area,
industrial park, residential neighborhood or other planned development.
   Dilapidated Sign: A sign where elements of the display area or panel are
visibly cracked, broken, or discolored, where the support structure or frame
members are visibly corroded, bent, broken, torn, or dented, or where the
message can no longer be read under normal viewing conditions.
   Directional Sign: Any sign directing traffic movement. Examples of
directional signs are: entrance/exit signs, handicapped parking, compact car
parking, bicycle/motorcycle parking, drive-up window signs (excluding menu
signs).
   Directory Sign: Any group of two (2) or more sign panels, identifying
individual businesses, contained within or attached to a single sign structure.
A directory sign may be a component of or attached to an identification sign.
   Double Faced Sign: A sign constructed to display its message on the outer
surfaces of two (2) identical and opposite parallel planes.
   Easel Signs: A temporary sign with a single side display area supported by a
three (3) legged support brace.
   Exterior Glass Signs: Any stick on or glue on individual letters of vinyl,
paper, cloth, or other material placed upon any exterior glass or windows.
   Fence Sign: Any sign attached or painted on a fence.
   Flags, Business: Flags displaying company logos or other sign copy for
purposes of advertising or business promotion.
   Flags, Institutional: National flags, flags of political subdivisions, and
symbolic flags of any institution, and sport teams.
   Flashing Sign: Any illuminated or moving sign, where the artificial light is
not kept stationary or constant in intensity and color or that flickers,
flutters or strobes, but not including electronic changeable copy signs if they
comply with provisions herein.
   Freestanding Signs: A classification of sign types that includes any sign
supported by posts, poles, pylons, uprights, braces or other supports placed
upon and anchored to the ground and not attached to any building. Temporary
signs, portable signs, and trailer signs shall not be considered freestanding
signs.
   Fuel Pump Sign: A sign affixed to or mounted on a fuel pump.
   Fuel Station Price Sign: A changeable copy sign advertising gasoline prices.
   Garage Sale Signs: Any sign announcing the sale of household items that has
been used by the resident at a private residence.
   Grand Opening Sign: A temporary sign announcing the opening of a new
business or reopening under new management or after renovation or remodeling.
   Ground Sign: A low profile freestanding sign, other than a pole sign, in
which the entire bottom is in contact with or is close to the ground.
   Hanging Sign: A freestanding sign supported by the extended arm of a single
post.
   Hazardous Sign: A sign or sign structure that by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, or obsolescence creates a hazard to public health,
safety, or welfare.
   Home Based Business Sign: A sign that identifies a permitted home
occupation.
   Identification Sign: A sign that identifies the establishment by displaying
the name of the establishment.
   Informational Sign: A sign stating the hours of operation of an
establishment, emergency telephone numbers, credit card usage or other
information of a similar nature.
   Internal Sign: A sign that is not intended to be viewed from any public
right of way or from any adjacent property, including any signs in interior
areas of shopping centers, commercial buildings, stadiums, and similar
structures or interior outdoor areas of a recreational nature.
   Kiosk: A sign consisting of three (3) to five (5) sides that lists names of
businesses located on a property or in a building or provides advertising for
products.
   Marquee Sign: A changeable copy sign that announces an ongoing or
forthcoming entertainment event to occur on the premises upon a marquee
structure (see definition of Marquee).
   Menu Board Sign: A permanent sign listing food or other products available
at drive-through facilities.
   Monument Sign: A freestanding sign with height greater than width and
supported primarily by an internal structural framework or other solid
structural features other than support poles.
   Moving Sign: Any sign or sign component with manual or automatic moving
structural elements that rotates, revolves or otherwise is in motion in any
manner including movement caused by a person holding the sign.
   Nameplate: A sign indicating the name and address of a building; or the name
of an occupant thereof, and the practice of a permitted occupation therein. The
listed occupation must be in generic terms, not company specific or with logos
or advertising of any kind.
   Neon Sign: A sign containing glass tube lighting in which a gas and
phosphors are used in combination to create colored light.
   Nonconforming Sign, Illegal: Any sign or type of sign illegally erected in
violation of the sign regulations in place at the time of construction.
   Nonconforming Sign, Legal: Any sign or type of sign which was lawfully
erected prior to the adoption of the ordinance and does not conform to the
regulations of this chapter.
   Off Premises Sign: Any sign that directs attention to a use, business,
commodity, service or activity not located, sold or offered upon the premises
or zoning lot where the sign is located. A directory sign or a shopping center
identification sign located on the same zoning lot as the subject building
shall not be considered an off premises sign even though the landowner may be
different from the building owner.
   On Premises Sign: Any sign that relates solely to a use, business, or
profession conducted or to a principal commodity, service or entertainment
sold, provided or offered upon the premises where the sign is located.
   Open House Sign: A temporary sign, on premises or off premises used to
advertise the sale of a real estate and direct traffic to the property for
sale.
   Painted Wall Sign: A sign applied directly to a building wall with paint.
   Pennants And Streamers: Miniflags, with or without a logo, made of flexible
materials and usually suspended from one or two (2) corners, used in
combination with other such signs to create the impression of a line.
   Permanent Sign: A sign constructed of durable material and intended to exist
for the duration of time that the use or occupant is located on the premises.
   Pole Sign: Any sign that is mounted on a freestanding pole or other support
so that the bottom edge of the sign face is six feet (6') or more above grade.
   Political Campaign Sign: A temporary sign announcing or supporting
candidates or issues in connection with any national, State, or local election.
   Political Message Sign: A sign, other than a political campaign sign that
expresses a noncommercial message regarding an issue of political or public
concern.
   Portable Sign: Any sign not permanently attached and designed to be moved
from place to place.
   Projecting Signs: Any sign attached to a wall of a building or the underside
of a projecting roofline or awning in which the face of the sign is not
parallel to such wall.
   Public Signs: Any sign of a noncommercial and public nature that identifies
a point of interest, regulates public activity or warns the public of potential
danger. Examples of public signs include traffic control signs, historical
markers, street signs, danger signs, memorial plaques, no trespassing signs,
and the like, and all signs erected by or on order of a public officer in the
performance of a public duty.
   Real Estate Sign: A temporary sign that lists the availability of sale,
lease, or a specific parcel, building, or portion of a building and the name,
address, and telephone number of owner or listing of real estate broker.
   Real Estate Sign, Off Site: A sign announcing the availability of the
property other than the property upon which the sign is located.
   Real Estate Sign, On Site: A sign announcing the availability of the
property upon which the sign is located.
   Roof Sign: Any sign erected wholly upon and over the roof of any building
and supported solely on the roof structure. A roof sign extends above the
roofline of a building, but does not include a sign attached to the fascia
overhanging the main part of the building. Signs mounted on mansard roofs,
awnings, canopies or marquees shall not be considered roof signs.
   Rotating Sign: A sign or sign part that rotates, revolves or spins.
   Sandwich Board Sign: A temporary advertising or business ground sign
designed to be portable and constructed in such a manner as to form an "A" or a
tentlike shape, hinged or not hinged at the top; each angular face held at an
appropriate distance by a supporting member.
   Searchlight Signs: Searchlights used to announce, direct attention to, or
advertise business.
   Snipe Sign: An off premises sign that is tacked, nailed, posted, pasted,
glued, or otherwise attached to trees, poles, stakes, fences, or to other
objects or illegally placed in the parkway.
   Special Event Sign: A temporary sign announcing a limited time event open to
the public sponsored by a private organization or business.
   Surface Mounted Sign: Any sign fastened to the wall of a building.
   Temporary Sign: Any sign designed to be portable or disposable and is on
display for only a short period of time.
   Thematic Window Compositions, Temporary: A temporary sign that celebrates
thematic or artistic expression and is on display for only a limited period of
time.
   Tracker Sign: An off site subdivision identification sign used to advertise
availability of homes for sale.
   Trailer Sign: Any sign affixed to a trailer that can be wheeled into place.
   Two Pole Sign: A freestanding sign with a double faced sign panel mounted on
two (2) identical poles with space between the ground and the bottom of the
sign panel.
   Wall Sign: Any single faced sign attached to and erected parallel to the
face of, and confined within the limits of, an outside wall of any building and
supported by such wall or building, but not including window signs. Any wall
sign that projects away from the wall more than twelve inches (12") shall be
considered a projecting sign.
   Wind Sign: Any display or series of displays, banners, flags, balloons, or
other objects designed and fashioned in such a manner as to move when subjected
to wind pressure including, but not limited to, whirligigs, and/or feather
flags.
   Window Sign: Any advertising, informational or identification sign attached
to or affixed to, or painted on, or placed inside an exterior door or window
and which can be seen from the exterior or located in such manner within a
building that it is visible from the exterior of the building through a window,
but excludes merchandise in a window display.
      A.   Permanent Window Sign: Any sign attached to or affixed to or painted
on or placed behind the window or door glass that is intended to exist for the
duration of time that the use or occupant is located on the premises.
      B.   Temporary Window Sign: Any sign other than a permanent window sign,
such as plug in electric, posters, or banners placed inside an exterior door or
window which can be seen from the exterior and is designed to be portable or
disposable and used for a short period of time.
   Window Trimming Lighting: Rope lighting, flexible lighting, neon lighting,
series lighting, lighting arranged in patterns, lighting unrelated to
communicating the name of the business and other similar applications of window
trimming or lighting on any part of a window. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014; amd. Ord.
16-05, 3-7-2016; Ord. 17-35, 2-20-2017; Ord. 2022-02, 1-17-2022)
9-4-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following types of signs are prohibited. Also prohibited is any sign not
expressly permitted by this chapter.
   Abandoned signs.
   Balloons or inflatable signs.
   Bench signs.
   Billboard signs.
   Car signs.
   Dilapidated signs.
   Exterior glass signs except as permitted as temporary signs.
   Fence signs.
   Flags, business.
   Flashing signs, except for electronic message signs that are displayed and
maintained consistent with regulations of this chapter.
   Hazardous signs.
   Moving signs.
   Off premises signs, except for not for profit special event signs, civic
event signs, garage sale signs and open house signs.
   Painted wall signs.
   Pennants and streamers except when used for safety and precautionary
purposes.
   Public right-of-way signs except public signs, civic signs, daily temporary
signs, garage sale signs and open house signs displayed and maintained
consistent with regulations of this chapter.
   Real estate, off site signs including tracker signs but not including off
site open house signs that are displayed and maintained consistent with
regulations of this chapter.
   Roof signs.
   Rotating signs.
   Searchlight signs.
   Snipe signs.
   String lights, exterior except those that are part of a temporary display in
conjunction with traditional accepted civic, patriotic or religious holidays
for duration not to exceed ninety (90) days.
   Trailer signs.
   Wind signs.
   Window trimming lighting. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014; amd. Ord. 16-05, 3-7-2016)
9-4-5: GENERAL RULES FOR ALL SIGNS:
   A.   Classification Of Signs: Signs shall be classified and permitted in
accordance with the regulations set forth in this chapter. Only those signs
specifically permitted shall be allowed. The classification of signs and sign
regulations shall be in accordance with the various use areas designated
herein.
   B.   Private Sign Covenants Or Tenant Sign Criteria: Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to prevent the owner or property manager of a shopping
center, multiple business center, other similar multi-tenant or multi-user
property, or other business, industrial or institutional use to impose and
enforce private sign covenants upon such property which may be more restrictive
or which may set higher standards than the provisions of this chapter. However,
in the case of conflict between these regulations and the private sign
covenants, the more restrictive regulations or the higher standards shall
govern. The Village shall not be responsible for enforcement of private sign
covenants.
   C.   Location For Signage: No signs shall be allowed in the sight triangle
for a property or site or in a public parkway.
   D.   Occupancy Permit: Since identification of commercial businesses is
beneficial to individual businesses and instrumental in the appearance and
perception of the vitality of the Village's commercial districts, a commercial
business entity shall work with Village staff on its signage as soon as is
practically possible either prior to or soon after formally committing to a
tenant space through lease or ownership.
A formal application for signage shall be submitted to the Village in a timely
manner for review by staff and consideration by the Appearance Review
Commission so that a signage plan may be approved - and potentially fabricated
and installed - by the time a commercial business space is inspected for
potential issuance of its certificate of occupancy.
If an application for commercial business signage that has been submitted to
and reviewed by the Appearance Review Commission does not receive a
recommendation from the commission within sixty (60) days from the date of its
initial review by the commission, the Village shall issue an occupancy permit
for the establishment so long as all other building permit or occupancy permit
conditions have otherwise been met.
A commercial business entity shall have its signage installed no later than
ninety (90) days after issuance of the occupancy permit. A written request for
a specific extension of time, not greater than ninety (90) days, may be
reviewed and administratively approved by the Community Development Director
(or staff designee) as a reasonable accommodation due to practical difficulties
a commercial business entity may encounter in securing its signage or its
installation. An extension beyond the administratively- approved ninety (90)
days shall require consideration by the Village President and Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2017-06, 2-6-2017)
9-4-6: SIGNS NOT SUBJECT TO PERMIT:
The following types of signs shall not be subject to a permit. They shall,
however meet any requirements incorporated in the following sign descriptions
and all other provisions of this chapter:
Building Marker Sign: Building marker signs may be cut into masonry surfaces
and shall not exceed three (3) square feet in area. Only one marker per
elevation is permitted with two (2) markers per building allowed. Marker signs
not in compliance with these regulations require permit and possible appearance
review.
Civic Event Signs: For events sponsored by schools and public agencies
including the Park District. Size and time period for display regulations are
not applicable. Public agencies may permit other not for profit partners
operating on a seasonal schedule to also display signs.
Contractor Signs: One sign allowed per premises. Sign must not exceed nine (9)
square feet in area, must identify the contractors engaged in the construction
on the premises where the sign is located, and must be removed at the time of
approval of the final inspection.
Daily Temporary Sign: A sign that is placed in front of a business on a daily
basis and taken in nightly. Only one sign is permitted per address, two (2)
such signs are permitted in the B-1 District where a second customer entrance
at the rear is used; this second sign must be displayed at the rear. Such sign
may utilize the sidewalk immediately in front of the business for display but
must not create an obstruction for pedestrians. Location exceptions may be
granted by the Village Board for businesses in active construction zones for
the duration of the project. This type of sign shall not exceed twelve (12)
square feet in total display area of all visible sides, and be displayed no
farther than ten feet (10') from the entrance to the store or business.
Examples:
   A.   Sandwich board maximum size twenty four inches by thirty six inches
(24" x 36") with display copy on two (2) sides.
   B.   Three (3) legged easel with a single side display area not to exceed
thirty six inches by thirty six inches (36" x 36").
All such signs shall be constructed with durable materials designed to
withstand outdoor weather conditions. Paper or similar easily decomposed
displays are not permitted. In addition, other materials designed to draw
further attention to the signs such as balloons, streamers, pinwheels, etc.,
are not permitted. The font on the sign shall be at least three inches (3") per
letter to aid in visibility.
Displays Or Decorations For Holidays And Special Occasions, Temporary: Do not
require a permit but are subject to the following:
   A.   Temporary displays or decorations customarily associated with any
national, State, local or religious holiday or celebration shall be erected no
earlier than forty five (45) days before and displayed no longer than sixty
(60) days after the holiday/celebration.
   B.   Temporary displays or decorations announcing special occasions
including, but not limited to, the birth of a child, birthdays or weddings
shall be displayed for a maximum of ten (10) days.
   C.   Temporary displays shall be differentiated from temporary thematic
window compositions.
Flags, Institutional: Shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in area.
Garage Sale Signs: Garage sale signs may be posted for sales that are taking
place in West Dundee only. Signs may be displayed for four (4) days but must be
displayed only on the days when the sale is actually taking place. A maximum of
five (5) signs are allowed to be displayed on the property holding the sale
and/or near major intersections on public property, signs are not allowed on
poles.
Home Occupation Signs: Such signs to be used as identification signs for
directional purposes not for advertising. Must be wall signs and displayed
within two feet (2') of the address numbers at the main entrance of the home or
entrance to the business. Such signs shall not exceed three (3) square feet and
shall only state the name of the businesses or occupation.
Informational Signs: There shall be a maximum of one per public entrance. When
displayed in a window or a glass door, the copy shall be included in total
window coverage calculation.
Internal Signs: Shall include internal identification, kiosk, directional and
advertising signs within enclosed buildings or enclosed courtyards or
recreational areas.
Nameplate Signs: Nameplates shall not exceed three (3) square feet and must be
attached to a building.
Open House Signs: Must only be displayed during the active open house event and
must be removed within a half hour of the close of the event. One sign is
permitted on the property and two (2) additional signs may be placed on the
parkway of the public right-of-way of the closest major intersection to the
lot. Signs cannot be located in the sight triangle area. No balloons or any
other attracting device may be attached to the signs. Signs cannot exceed six
(6) square feet per face.
Political Campaign Signs: Political campaign signs shall not be erected upon
public property or attached to signs, poles, or other fixtures on the public
right-of-way. Political campaign signs shall not exceed eight (8) square feet
in size.
   A.   All political campaign signs shall be removed from a nonresidentially
zoned property and not displayed within forty eight (48) hours after an
election/referendum.
Political Message Sign: Signs shall not be erected upon public property or
attached to signs, poles, or other fixtures on the public right-of-way.
Political message sign shall not exceed eight (8) square feet.
Public Signs: As posted by government agencies including the park district.
Residential Real Estate Signs, On Premises: Real estate signs may be
freestanding or wall mounted. All real estate signs shall be removed within
five (5) days after the sale or rental of the property. Real estate signs or
construction signs shall not be illuminated.
Window Signs, Temporary: All window signs not otherwise defined shall not
occupy more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total window area of the
first floor including glass door if applicable. Window signs must be on
premises signs and cannot be displayed above the first floor without permit
approval. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014; amd. Ord. 17-35, 2-20-2017; Ord. 2022-02, 1-
17-2022)
9-4-7: SIGNS REQUIRING SIGN PERMIT:
The following types of signs shall require a permit. They shall meet all
requirements incorporated in the following sign descriptions as well as all
other provisions of this chapter.
Awning Signs: When nonretractable awnings are used as wall signs, they shall be
subject to size requirements for wall signs but copy on the awning shall not
take up more than sixty percent (60%) of the surface area of the slope. When
awnings are used as decorative elements of the building, are retractable or
nonretractable and are used in addition to wall signs, the copy on the signs
shall be limited to the valance area and may not exceed five (5) square feet
per awning.
Banner Signs: Banner signs are permitted as grand opening signs, business
promotional signs and special event signs. No banner sign shall be hung across
any public right-of-way without Village Board approval.
Blade Sign: No part of a blade sign shall inhibit lines of sight or access for
pedestrians or vehicles.
Bulletin Board Signs: Allowed on the premises of a charitable or religious
institution only and may not exceed sixteen (16) square feet. May be used in
combination with an identification sign.
Business Promotional Signs: A temporary use permit is required; the fee is
twenty five dollars ($25.00) annually. A single business may display a special
event or promotional sign on a limited basis. These signs can be vinyl banner
signs or other permitted temporary sign material as approved by the building
official. All signs must be wholly displayed on private property.
   A.   Number: Businesses are permitted four (4) promotional event signs and/
or special event signs per year. Only one such sign is permitted to be
displayed at a time for each business or zoning lot.
   B.   Duration: Promotional signs shall be permitted for thirty (30) day
periods. Display of any business promotional sign may not be sequential; there
must be thirty (30) days between the issuance of permits for such signs. An
exception may be made for events or promotions held in conjunction with
traditional national holidays.
   C.   Size:
      1.   Promotional banner signs may not be larger than thirty two (32)
square feet (4'x8' preferred).
      2.   Such signs shall not exceed 25% per individual/singular glazed area
(window or door) and 25% of total first-floor glazing.
   D.   Location:
      1.   Banners: Banner signs must be affixed to the building walls in a
nonprojecting manner and may not exceed the height of the first floor of the
building or twelve feet (12') from grade, whichever is higher. Banners must be
firmly secured with all four (4) corners pinned down. Banners may be secured to
porch posts or railings only if the building official determines that no other
area is feasible for display due to location of windows, doors, etc.
      2.   Other: All promotional business signs must be displayed on the
elevation of the building with the store or business’ main entrance or on the
elevation of the building facing the public street. If not affixed to the
building, signs must be within ten feet (10') of the front elevation not
blocking any ingress/egress point or line of sight. Exact locations shall be
approved by the building official. For businesses with changeable copy signs
attached to the freestanding signs, no business promotional signs shall be
permitted. For businesses within large parks and/or retail areas whose frontage
is not located adjacent to a public street, signs may be placed in common areas
near to or secured to park or shopping center signs. Only one such sign is
permitted at a time with landlord/owner approval.
   E.   Exceptions: The Village Board may grant exceptions related to the
number, duration, size, and location regulations listed in subsections A
through D above.
Canopy Signs: Shall only be used to identify the place of business and street
address and shall be placed only on the slope sections of the canopy. No part
of the canopy sign can extend above or below the canopy itself and shall not
overhang the public right-of-way.
Changeable Copy Signs, Manual: Must be incorporated into freestanding signs
used for identification of an establishment. The changeable copy section shall
not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the copy area for signs with
display areas measuring greater than one hundred (100) square feet; shall not
occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the copy area for signs with display
areas measuring one hundred (100) square feet to forty one (41) square feet;
and shall not occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the copy area for signs
with display areas measuring forty (40) square feet or less and shall be in
proportion to the entire sign and shall have similar treatment so it is
integrated into the sign face. Changeable copy signs are not permitted as wall
or window signs.
Construction Sign; Public Roadway Or Utility: All signs shall be removed at the
completion of the public project.
Construction Signs; Site: All construction signs shall be removed before an
occupancy permit is granted.
Directional Signs: Directional signs may be erected in addition to the
permitted number of freestanding or wall signs. No directional sign shall be
larger than three (3) square feet, and if freestanding, higher than five feet
(5') and may not contain a logo or advertising.
Directory Sign: Such signs shall include sign panels listing the names of the
tenants or the occupants of a building or group of buildings and may also
indicate their respective professions or business activities. Directory signs
may be incorporated into identification signs for a development.
Electronic Changeable Copy Signs: Appearance Review Commission approval
required for new signs including electronic sign panels and for retrofitting
existing signs with electronic sign panels. Electronic changeable copy signs
are also subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Route 31 Business Corridor:
      1.   Permitted locations:
         a.   Electronic signs are permitted for properties with underlying
business zoning or with a business component within a Special Development
District.
         b.   Electronic signs are permitted for large-scale, multi-family
residential rental developments along or connected to Route 31.
            (1)   The development shall contain at least twenty (20) acres.
            (2)   The sign shall be physically set back at least three-hundred
feet (300') from Route 31.
         c.   Only one electronic sign is permitted per zoning lot.
         d.   Changeable copy, electronic signs are allowable for fuel station
price signs at service stations in all areas of the community except for the
historic area. Such signs are subject to the display regulations below but the
fuel price must be a nonmoving display at all times.
         e.   Changeable copy electronic signs are permitted in certain areas
according to the size of the site measured by linear footage as follows:
            (1)   For single buildings, shopping centers or planned
developments with linear frontage of less than three hundred feet (300') on a
single roadway:
               (A)   Maximum sign copy area is fifty (50) square feet.
               (B)   An electronic sign may not exceed thirty-five percent
(35%) of the maximum sign copy area.
            (2)   For single buildings, shopping centers or planned
developments with linear frontage of three hundred and one feet (301') or
greater on a single roadway:
               (A)   Maximum sign copy area is one-hundred (100) square feet.
               (B)   An electronic sign may not exceed twenty-five (25%) of the
maximum sign copy area.
      2.   Base:
         a.   Electronic signs may only be incorporated into monument or ground
signs with solid masonry bases.
         b.   Unfinished concrete masonry units (CMU) or unfinished poured
concrete are not permissible masonry base materials.
         c.   Minimum base height shall be twenty-four inches (24").
         d.   The electronic sign panel must be placed at the bottom of the
overall sign panel immediately above the masonry base.
            (1)   Masonry base shall extend the full width of the sign panel.
      3.   Display area:
         a.   Electronic copy may not contain any symbols, icons, characters,
ideograms, or product representations.
         b.   Electronic copy shall be restricted to a maximum of two (2)
colors displaying dark background and light or contrasting text.
         c.   Electronic copy may not flash, blink, fade, scroll or roll or
have any type of continuous movement.
         d.   Copy must be of a nonmoving persistent nature with a single
message displayed for at least ten (10) seconds for commercial properties and
at least one (1) minute for large-scale, multi-family residential rental
developments.
      4.   Minimum Design Standards:
         a.   Higher resolution display panels are encouraged. An electronic
sign panel shall not have more than twelve millimeters (12 mm) pixel pitch
spacing (high resolution).
         b.   The unit must be equipped with both a programmed dimming sequence
as well as an additional overriding mechanical photocell that adjusts the
brightness of the display to the ambient light at the all times of day. Such
programming and mechanical equipment shall be set so that the unit, at night or
in overcast conditions, will be no more than 40% of the daytime brightness
level.
         c.   All electronic signs must be equipped with a default mechanism
that will stop the messaging or freeze the image in one position when a
malfunction in electronic programming occurs.
      5.   Ancillary Use/Function:
         a.   Electronic signs to be equipped to override commercial messages
for emergency situations or to accommodate community messages.
   B.   Route 72 Corridor: including properties with frontage on both sides of
Route 72 from the eastern limits of the Village to Route 31 (but excluding the
lots at the northeast and southeast corner of Routes 31 and 72.)
      1.   Permitted locations:
         a.   Electronic signs are permitted for properties with underlying
business zoning.
         b.   Only one electronic sign is permitted per zoning lot.
         c.   Changeable copy electronic signs are permitted in certain areas
according to the size of the site measured by linear footage as follows:
            (1)   For single buildings, shopping centers or planned
developments with linear frontage of one hundred eighty feet (180') or greater
on Route 72:
               (A)   Maximum sign copy area is thirty (30) square feet.
               (B)   An electronic sign may not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the maximum sign copy area.
         d.   Maximum sign size:
            (1)   Maximum height: eight feet (8')
            (2)   Maximum width: ten feet (10')
      2.   Base:
         a.   Electronic signs may only be incorporated into ground signs with
solid masonry bases.
         b.   Unfinished concrete masonry units (CMUs) or unfinished poured
concrete are not permissible masonry base materials.
         c.   Minimum base height shall be eighteen inches (18").
         d.   The electronic sign panel must be placed at the bottom of the
overall sign panel immediately above the masonry base.
            (1)   Masonry base shall extend the full width of the sign panel.
      3.   Display area:
         a.   Electronic copy may not contain any symbols, icons, characters,
ideograms, or product representations.
         b.   Electronic copy shall be restricted to a maximum of two (2)
colors displaying a dark background and light or contrasting text with colors
reflecting those used in the fixed sign panel.
         c.   Electronic copy may not flash, blink, fade, scroll or roll or
have any type of continuous movement.
         d.   Copy must be of a nonmoving persistent nature with a single
message displayed for at least thirty (30) minutes.
      4.   Minimum Design Standards:
         a.   Higher resolution display panels are encouraged and an electronic
sign panel shall not have more than ten millimeters (10 mm) pixel pitch
spacing.
         b.   The unit must be equipped with both a programmed dimming sequence
as well as an additional overriding mechanical photocell that adjusts the
brightness of the display to the ambient light at the all times of day. Such
programming and mechanical equipment shall be set so that the unit, at night or
in overcast conditions, will be no more than 40% of the daytime brightness
level.
         c.   All electronic signs must be equipped with a default mechanism
that will stop the messaging or freeze the image in one position when a
malfunction in electronic programming occurs.
      5.   Ancillary Use/Function:
         a.   Electronic signs to be equipped to override commercial messages
for emergency situations or to accommodate community messages.
   C.   Spring Hill Mall and Mall Surrounding Area: including properties with
frontage on Ring Road, Spring Hill Gateway, and properties along both the north
and south sides of Route 72 from Route 31 to Sleepy Hollow Road, all property
with commercial frontage along Huntley Road and the Elm Avenue entrance to the
mall.
      1.   Permitted locations:
         a.   Electronic signs are permitted for properties with underlying
business zoning.
         b.   Only one electronic sign is permitted per zoning lot.
         c.   Changeable copy electronic signs are permitted in certain areas
according to the size of the site measured by linear footage as follows:
            (1)   For single buildings, shopping centers or planned
developments with linear frontage of seven hundred feet (700') or greater on a
single roadway:
               (A)   Maximum sign copy area is one hundred sixty (160) square
feet.
               (B)   Maximum electronic sign copy area is a function of display
resolution (see Section 4(a) below).
               (C)   Maximum sign height shall be twenty-five feet (25') for a
monument sign or fourteen feet (14') for a ground sign, with up to ten percent
(10%) additional for an architectural element atop sign.
            (2)   For single buildings, shopping centers or planned
developments with linear frontage of between three hundred feet (300') and six
hundred ninety-nine feet (699') on a single roadway:
               (A)   Maximum sign copy area is eighty (80) square feet.
               (B)   An electronic sign panel may not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the maximum sign copy area.
               (C)   Maximum sign height shall be fifteen feet (15') for a
monument sign or ten feet (10') for a ground sign, with up to ten percent (10%)
additional for an architectural element atop sign.
            (3)   For single buildings, shopping centers or planned
developments with linear frontage of between two hundred feet (200') and two
hundred ninety-nine feet (299') on a single roadway:
               (A)   Maximum sign copy area is sixty (60) square feet.
               (B)   An electronic sign panel may not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the maximum sign copy area.
               (C)   Maximum sign height shall be twelve feet (12') for a
monument sign or eight feet (8') for a ground sign, with up to ten percent
(10%) additional for an architectural element atop sign.
            (4)   For single buildings, shopping centers or planned
developments with linear frontage of less than two hundred feet (200') on a
single roadway:
               (A)   Maximum sign copy area is forty (40) square feet.
               (B)   An electronic sign panel may not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the maximum sign copy area.
               (C)   Maximum sign height shall be ten feet (10') for a monument
sign or seven feet (7') for a ground sign, with up to ten percent (10%)
additional for an architectural element atop sign.
      2.   Base:
         a.   Electronic signs may only be incorporated into monument or ground
signs with solid masonry bases.
         b.   Unfinished concrete masonry units (CMUs) or unfinished poured
concrete are not permissible masonry base materials.
         c.   Masonry base shall extend the full width of the sign panel.
         d.   Minimum base height shall be eighteen inches (18").
         e.   Maximum base height shall be four feet (4').
         f.   Sign base shall be landscaped with plant material providing year-
round appeal.
         g.   The electronic sign panel must be placed at the bottom of the
overall sign panel immediately above the masonry base.
      3.   Display area:
         a.   Electronic copy may not flash, blink, scroll or roll or have any
type of continuous movement.
         b.   Copy must be of a nonmoving persistent nature with individual
signs or messages displayed for at least ten (10) seconds. The change in copy
shall be a full screen replacement without motion or other action techniques.
No movement, flashing, animation or scrolling messages shall be permitted.
         c.   Electronic copy may not include any advertising unrelated to the
businesses or facility where the electronic sign is located.
      4.   Minimum Design Standards:
         a.   Higher resolution display panels are encouraged.
            (1)   An electronic sign panel of up to 35% of sign copy area shall
not have more than fourteen millimeter (14 mm) pixel pitch spacing.
            (2)   An electronic sign panel of between 35% and 50% of sign copy
area shall not have more than ten millimeter (10 mm) pixel pitch spacing.
            (3)   An electronic sign panel in excess of 50% of copy area shall
not have more than eight millimeter (8 mm) pixel pitch spacing.
         b.   The unit must be equipped with both a programmed dimming sequence
as well as an additional overriding mechanical photocell that adjusts the
brightness of the display to the ambient light at all times of day. Such
programming and mechanical equipment shall be set so that the unit, at night or
in overcast conditions, will be no more than 40% of the daytime brightness
level.
         c.   All electronic signs must be equipped with a default mechanism
that will stop the messaging or freeze the image in one position when a
malfunction in electronic programming occurs.
      3.   Ancillary Use/Function:
         a.   Electronic signs to be equipped to override commercial messages
for emergency situations or to accommodate community messages.
Fuel Station Price Sign: Electronic and manual fuel station price signs are
subject to all rules for changeable copy signs.
Ground Signs: Shall be integrated into landscape features.
Identification Signs: Identification signs shall identify the establishment
where the sign is erected by displaying the name of the business or building
with other advertising kept to a minimum.
Menu Sign: Menu signs shall be permitted only in conjunction with drive-up
window lanes, and shall be allowed in addition to the other permitted
freestanding and wall signs. All menu signs must be at least twenty five feet
(25') from the public right-of-way.
Monument Sign: Shall be integrated into landscape features and be taller than
wider. Base shall be maintained free of copy or graphics.
Neon Signs: Neon tubing as an inside window or door signage treatment is
allowed when such tubing is for the business name, instructional purposes,
logos, graphics, products or services. No outlining of windows or doors with
tubing is allowed. Window sign coverage regulations apply in totality.
Not For Profit Organization Signs: Not for profit organizations, clubs, and
churches shall be allowed a no fee permit for display of temporary signs on
private property. Such signs shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
area, not to be displayed longer than fourteen (14) days and in conformance to
the setback requirements for the location installed. There shall be a limit of
two (2) such signs displayed at the same time on any premises. If a permanent
changeable copy sign exists on the premises, the number of signs shall be
limited to one. Signs for any one event or promotion may not be displayed again
until thirty (30) days after removal. Signs may be permitted on public property
with Village Manager approval.
Portable Sign: Portable signs shall only be permitted as temporary signs when
permitted by this chapter or by the Village Board for promotional purposes but
may not be used as permanent signs for businesses.
Projecting Sign: Shall not project more than four feet (4') from a building
wall.
Real Estate Sign: Real estate signs may be freestanding or wall mounted. All
real estate signs shall be removed within five (5) days after the sale or
rental of the property. No real estate sign or construction sign shall be
illuminated.
Special Event Signs: A temporary sign permit shall only be issued in
conjunction with special event approval as defined in section
3-8-3 of this Code.
Thematic Window Compositions, Temporary: A temporary sign permit is required;
the fee is twenty-five dollars ($25.00) annually. A single business may display
a thematic window composition on a limited basis. These compositions can be
hand painted, vinyl banner signs or other permitted temporary sign material as
approved by Village staff. All signs must be wholly displayed on private
property.
   A.   B-1 Downtown Business District:
      1.   Number: Businesses are permitted four (4) thematic window
compositions per year.
      2.   Duration: Thematic window compositions shall be permitted for thirty
(30) day periods. Display of thematic window compositions may be sequential.
      3.   Size: Thematic window compositions shall not exceed 50% per
individual/singular glazed area (window or door) and 50% of total first-floor
glazing.
      4.   Locations:
         a.   Shall only be located on a current or formerly glazed area
(windows or doors).
         b.   Shall only be permitted on the first floor.
      5.   Minimum Design Standards:
         a.   Shall not include business promotional language.
         b.   Shall not include contentious, abusive, or offensive material.
         c.   Permit application shall include an illustration / rendering /
representation of the composition.
      6.   Other:
         a.   Display of thematic window compositions may not coincide or
overlap with display of business promotional signs.
         b.   Thematic window compositions shall not obscure approved permanent
window signage.
         c.   Permit applications shall be considered administratively. An
appeal may be made to the Appearance Review Commission in the event that an
application or proposal is denied a permit by village staff.
Wall Signs: Include blade signs, projecting signs and awning signs when used in
place of traditional wall signs. The wall sign shall not extend beyond the top
ends of the wall surface on which they are placed. Wall signs shall not project
more than twelve inches (12") from the building wall surface or facade. If a
wall sign projects more than twelve inches (12") from the wall, it shall be
deemed a projecting sign.
Window Signs, Permanent: Window signs painted on, or attached to, or placed
behind a window shall not cover more than fifty percent (50%) of the total
glass area of the first floor facing the street. Window signs cannot be off
premises and must be displayed only in windows that the tenant occupies. No
window signs shall be permitted for individual tenants in a multi-story or
multi-tenant office building.
   A.   Open sign, electronic: May not flash, blink, fade, scroll, animate,
move sequentially, roll, have any type of continuous movement or give the
illusion of movement in any manner.
Window Signs, Temporary: Temporary window signs above the first floor shall be
allowed when the upper floor is occupied by a commercial tenant. Such signs
shall not cover more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total glass area of
any upper floor, facing the street. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014; amd. Ord. 2014-16,
6-2-2014; Ord. 2015-05, 2-16-2015; Ord. 2015-33, 12-21-2015; Ord. 16-05, 3-7-
2016; Ord. 16-31, 10-24-2016; Ord. 17-17, 5-22-2017; Ord. 17-19, 6-26-2017;
Ord. 2019-02, 1-21-2019; Ord. 2022-02, 1-17-2022; Ord. 2022-35, 11-7-2022)
9-4-8: REGULATIONS BY LOCATION:
Tables included in this section regulate sign specification based upon
geographical areas and are an expansion of the regulations included in section
9-4-7 of this chapter.
TABLE 9-4-8A
SIGNS FOR RESIDENTIAL AREA
Permit Required
Includes all residential lots unless located in an alternative regulatory area.
 
Sign Type        Number And    Maximum Copy Maximum Maximum Other
                 Type          Area         Height  Setback Requirements
Residential                                              
uses:
  Development    2             20 sq. ft.
 identification freestanding  each         5 ft.   10 ft.   
  sign
                 1
 Real estate or freestanding  5 sq. ft.    6 ft.   -        
  construction   or 1 wall per
                 frontage
Nonresidential                                           
uses:
  Identification                                            Historic area
 and/or         1             12 sq. ft.   5 ft.   5 ft.   design
  bulletin board freestanding                               regulations
                                                            apply
  Real estate or 1
 construction   freestanding  10 sq. ft.   6 ft.   -        
                 or 1 wall
 
(Ord. 17-35, 2-20-2017)
TABLE 9-4-8B
SIGNS FOR HISTORIC AREA
Permit Required
Includes all properties designated by section
 9-6-2 of this title as contained within the West Dundee historic area and all
commercial property located between the river and 3rd Street. Appearance review
commission review required. Permitted signs are not always deemed appropriate,
the commission may modify the size, location or design of the sign. Direct
illumination signs are not permitted.
Freestanding: 1 freestanding sign permitted per commercial frontage. If a
property has a freestanding sign, then no front facing surface mounted or wall
sign is permitted unless granted an exception by the appearance review
commission. Properties may display 1 of the following types of signs:
Sign Type      Maximum      Maximum Copy Maximum      Minimum      Other
               Number       Area         Height       Setback      Requirements
Double pole    1            12 sq. ft.   5 ft.                     Single pole
Single pole    1            9 sq. ft.    7 ft.                     signs must
                                                                   be
                                                                   rectangular
                                                      Centered     with a
                                                      between      longer
                                                      front        vertical
                                                      building     side than
                                                      line         horizontal
                                                      including    side
                                                      porch and     
                                                      sidewalk,    Hanging
                                                      but no       signs as
                                                      closer than  well as
                                                      5 ft. to the other types
                                                      sidewalk. No of unique
Ground         1            15 sq. ft.1  5 ft.1       sign shall   signs will
                                                      be permitted also be
                                                      if building  considered
                                                      setback is   on a case by
                                                      less than 10 case basis
                                                      ft. and       
                                                      there is     Must be
                                                      nowhere else integrated
                                                      on the lot   into
                                                      where a      landscape,
                                                      freestanding ground
                                                      sign,        clearance
                                                      conforming   not to
                                                      to the       exceed 12
                                                      setback can  in.
                                                      be placed
Directory for  1            15 sq. ft.   5 ft.                      
2 businesses
Directory for
3 or more      1            15 sq. ft.   5 ft.                      
businesses
Development    2 for entire
identification area         15 sq. ft.   5 ft.                     
sign
Surface mounted signs: If a property has a freestanding sign, then no front
facing or corner surface mounted sign is permitted. No surface mounted signs
shall be permitted for individual tenants in a multi-story or multi-tenant
office building, unless specifically authorized as part of an approved sign
plan
Sign Type      Maximum      Maximum Copy Area         Other Requirements
               Number
                            2 1/2 sq. ft. per front   Indirect illumination
Front and      1 per        foot of building          signs only
corner wall    commercial   frontage, but not to      Front wall signs must be
               frontage     exceed 100 sq. ft.        displayed at first floor
                                                      level
                                                      If there is no rear
               1 each                                 customer entrance, then
               building                               the maximum wall sign
               with public                            area shall be 25% of the
               parking or                             allowable front sign
               the Fox      Rear entrance signs shall area. If there is no main
Rear wall      River behind not exceed 50% of the     entrance on the
               the building front wall sign area      commercial frontage then
               shall be                               the business sign shall
               entitled to                            not exceed 50% of the
               1 additional                           allowable front wall sign
               wall sign                              for the occupant in the
                                                      pertinent front space
               1 per
               commercial
Blade signs    frontage in  15 sq. ft.
               place of a
               wall sign
                            2 1/2 sq. ft. per front
                            foot of building
               1 per        frontage, but not to      If an awning is used as a
Awning: Used   commercial   exceed 100 sq. ft.        wall sign, the entire
as wall sign   frontage in  Side and rear regulations structure must be removed
               place of     above apply               upon cessation of
               wall sign    Shall not occupy more     business
                            than 60% of surface area
                            of slope
               1 in place                             Bottom of sign must be a
Projecting     of a wall    18 sq. ft.                minimum of 8 ft. in
               sign                                   height above the sidewalk
Other - Not Subject to Appearance Review Commission Review:
Sign Type      Maximum      Maximum Copy Area         Other Requirements
               Number
Awning:
Decorative not -            5 sq. ft.                 On valance area only
used as wall
sign
Canopy,        1 in place
entrance       of a wall    15 sq. ft.                On vertical surface only
               sign(s)
               1 in place                             Bottom of sign must be a
Projecting     of a wall    18 sq. ft.                minimum of 8 ft. in
               sign(s)                                height above the sidewalk
               1 wall or
Real estate or freestanding
construction   per          20 sq. ft.
               commercial
               frontage
Thematic                    Shall not exceed 50% per
Window                      individual/singular       Located on first floor
Compositions,  4 per year   glazed area (window or    glass only.
Temporary                   door) and 50% of total
                            first-floor glazing.
                            The combined area of
Window,                     permanent and temporary
permanent      -            window signs shall not    Located on first floor
(including                  exceed 50% of the total   glass only
glass door)                 glass area including
                            glass door
 
Note:
   1.    See section
 9-4-7, electronic changeable copy signs, subsection B1 of this chapter under
the requirements for electronic changeable copy signs for maximum copy area and
height requirements for electronic signs where permitted.
(Ord. 16-31, 10-24-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-02, 1-17-2022)
TABLE 9-4-8C
SIGNS FOR SPRING HILL MALL AND MALL SURROUNDING AREA
Permit Required
Includes Spring Hill Mall and areas surrounding the mall including properties
with frontage on Ring Road, Spring Hill Gateway, and properties along both the
north and south sides of Route 72 from Route 31 to Sleepy Hollow Road, all
property with commercial frontage along Huntley Road and the Elm Avenue
entrance to the mall.
Freestanding: Only 1 type of sign within this category permitted per elevation
Sign Type Maximum Frontage in Maximum Copy Maximum Height Maximum Other
          Number  Linear Feet Area                        Setback Requirements
Freestanding: Only 1 type of sign within this category permitted per elevation
               Maximum    Frontage  Maximum     Maximum    Maximum Other
Sign Type      Number     in Linear Copy Area   Height     Setback Requirements
                          Feet
Identification
               1 per      less than 40 sq. ft.  7 ft.
               frontage;  200
               except     200-299   60 sq. ft.  8 ft.
               businesses 300-699   80 sq. ft.  10 ft.             Signs must
               in                                                  be displayed
Ground         shopping                                    10 ft.  on frontage
               center are 700 or                                   for which it
               not        more      160 sq. ft. 14 ft.             is
               allowed                                             permitted,
               individual                                          and shall
               signs                                               either be
                          less than 40 sq. ft.  10 ft.             centered
                          200                                      along such
                          200-299   60 sq. ft.  12 ft.             frontage or
                          300-699   80 sq. ft.  15 ft.             located as
                                                                   to not be in
                                                                   the same lot
                                                                   quadrant.
               1 per                                               The square
               frontage;                                           footage for
               except                                              2 allowed
               businesses                                          signs may be
               in                                                  combined
Monument       shopping                                    10 ft.  into a
               center are                                          single
               not        700 or    160 sq. ft. 25 ft.             corner sign,
               allowed    more                                     if this
               individual                                          option is
               signs                                               chosen the
                                                                   maximum copy
                                                                   area can be
                                                                   increased by
                                                                   10 sq. ft.




Development                                     15 ft. for
identification 1 sign per                       monument
or directory   frontage            40 sq. ft.  7 ft. for  10 ft.  See above
Monument or                                     ground
ground
 
Surface mounted: Only 1 type of surface mounted sign permitted per elevation
exceeding 50 ft. except for extra front wall sign
Sign Type Maximum Number Maximum Copy Area Other Requirements
Surface mounted: Only 1 type of surface mounted sign permitted per elevation
exceeding 50 ft. except for extra front wall sign
Sign Type           Maximum Number      Maximum Copy Area   Other Requirements
                                        10% of wall area,
                                        but no sign shall
                                        exceed the
                                        following:
                                        Front yard setback  No wall signs shall
                                        75 ft. or less: 100 be permitted for
                                        sq. ft.             individual tenants
                    1 per elevation     Front yard setback  in a multi-story or
Wall identification facing a street or  of 76 ft. to 250    multi-tenant office
                    an access           ft.:                building, unless
                    connection          150 sq. ft.         specifically
                                        Front yard setback  authorized as part
                                        of 251 ft. to 500   of an approved sign
                                        ft.:                plan
                                        200 sq. ft.
                                        Front yard setback
                                        of 501+ ft.: 250
                                        sq. ft.
                                                            These signs are
                                                            support signs to
                                                            further delineate
                                        Up to 50% of the    product available
Extra front wall                        main identification in the store. Must
for large footprint 2 at elevation with wall sign, exact    be surface mounted
buildings,          front entrance      size dependent upon wall signs. Cannot
identification                          frontage and        be same copy as the
                                        placement           main identification
                                                            sign but cannot be
                                                            advertising slogan
                                                            lines
                    May be used as      10% of wall area,   May not inhibit
Blade               substitute for 1    but no sign shall   line of sight
                    permitted wall sign exceed 50 sq. ft.
                                                            May not be used as
                                        5 sq. ft. on slope  primary wall sign.
Awning              -                   only                At least 8 ft.
                                                            above the public
                                                            sidewalk
                    1 per commercial    15 sq. ft. on       At least 8 ft.
Canopy              frontage            vertical surface    above the public
                                        side only           sidewalk
Other: Permit required:
                                                            For multi-tenant
                                                            building.
                                                            Freestanding real
                                                            estate sign must be
                                                            removed at 75%
                                                            occupancy. Wall
                                                            sign may still be
Real estate or      1 wall or                               used on the
construction        freestanding per    20 sq. ft.          premises available
                    commercial frontage                     for lease/sale. If
                                                            the space is not
                                                            visible from a
                                                            right of way a wall
                                                            sign may be
                                                            permitted on an
                                                            exterior building
                                                            wall
 
Note:
1.   See section
9-4-7, Electronic Changeable Copy Signs, Subsection C1 of this chapter under
requirements for electronic changeable copy signs for required linear frontage,
maximum size, maximum copy area and Subsection C4a for required display
resolution.
(Ord. 2019-02, 1-21-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-35, 11-7-2022)
TABLE 9-4-8D
SIGNS FOR ROUTE 31 COMMERCIAL AREA
Permit Required
Includes properties with commercial frontage along both sides of Route 31 from
the northerly village limits to the southerly village limits (but excluding
those properties contained within the Spring Hill Mall area), all properties
with commercial frontage along Village Quarter Road, Market Loop, Round About
Circle, Beacon Drive, Willow Lane, Strom Drive, Angle Tarn, Boncosky Road and
Marriott Drive.
Freestanding: Only 1 type of sign within this category permitted per elevation
which exceeds 50 linear feet
Sign Type       Maximum      Maximum     Maximum      Maximum      Other
                Number       Copy Area   Height       Setback      Requirements
Identification:                                                 
  Ground                                 7 ft. for    6 ft. for 50
                                         ground       ft. sign     Sign must be
  Monument                               15 ft. for   8 ft. for    displayed on
                                         monument     100 sq. ft.  frontage for
                                                                   which it is
                                                                   permitted
                                                                   and shall
  Pole: Only                                                       either be
  allowed if    1 sign per                                         centered
  ground or     commercial   50 sq. ft.                            along such
  monument      frontage     for first                             frontage or
  signs cannot  facing a     300 linear                            located as
  be used       street or    ft. of a                              to not be in
  because       access       single      Pole: Shall               the same lot
  location      connection   commercial  not exceed                quadrant
  outside of    except those frontage    20 ft. or                  
  the sight     businesses   where sign  the height                The square
  triangle will within a     displayed   of the       10 ft. for   footage for
  reduce        shopping     100 sq. ft. nearest      200 sq. ft.  2 allowed
  required      center shall for 301     building                  signs may be
  parking,      not be       linear ft.  whichever is              combined
  eliminate     allowed      and larger  less                      into a
  mature        individual                                         single
  landscaping   signs                                              corner sign,
  or inhibit                                                       if this
  visibility                                                       option is
  due to                                                           chosen the
  existing                                                         maximum copy
  topography                                                       area can be
                                                                   increased by
                                                                   10 sq. ft.

Development
identification                                                  
or directory:
                                                                   Sign must be
                                                                   displayed on
                                                                   frontage for
                                                                   which it is
                                                                   permitted
                                                                   and shall
                                                                   either be
  Ground                                                           centered
  Monument                                                         along such
  Pole: Only                                                       frontage or
  allowed if                                                       located as
  ground or                                                        to not be in
  monument                               7 ft. for                 the same lot
  signs cannot               50 sq. ft.  ground                    quadrant
  be used                    for first   15 ft. for                The square
  because                    300 linear  monument                  footage for
  location                   ft. of      Pole: Shall  6 ft. for 50 2 allowed
  outside of    1 sign per   single      not exceed   ft. sign     signs may be
 the sight     commercial   commercial  20 ft. or    8 ft. for    combined
  triangle will frontage     frontage    the height   100 sq. ft.  into a
  reduce                     100 sq. ft. of the       10 ft. for   single
  required                   for 301     nearest      200 sq. ft.  corner sign,
  parking,                   linear ft.  building                  if this
  landscape                  and larger  whichever is              option is
  features or                            less                      chosen the
  inhibit                                                          maximum copy
  visibility                                                       area can be
  due to                                                           increased by
  existing                                                         10 sq.
  topography                                                       ft.Surface
                                                                   mounted:
                                                                   Only 1 type
                                                                   of sign
                                                                   within this
                                                                   category
                                                                   permitted
                                                                   per
                                                                   elevation
Sign Type       Maximum      Maximum Copy Area        Other Requirements
                Number
                             10% of wall area, but    No wall signs shall be
                1 sign per   shall not exceed 100 sq. permitted for individual
                elevation    ft. if the front yard    tenants in a multi-story
Wall            facing the   setback is 75 ft. or     or multi-tenant office
                street or    less or 150 sq. ft. if   building, unless
                access       the front yard setback   specifically authorized
                connection   is 76 ft. to 500 ft.     as part of an approved
                                                      sign plan
                                                      These signs are support
                                                      signs to further
                             Up to 50% of the main    delineate product
Extra front     2 at         identification wall      available in the store.
wall for large  elevation    sign, exact size         Must be surface mounted
footprint       with front   dependent upon frontage  wall signs. Cannot be
buildings       entrance     and placement            same copy as the main
                                                      identification sign but
                                                      cannot be advertising
                                                      slogan lines
                May be used
                as           10% of wall area, but no May not overhang public
Blade           substitute   sign shall exceed 50 sq. sidewalk or inhibit line
                for 1        ft.                      of sight or pedestrian
                permitted                             movement on site
                wall sign
                1 per
Canopy          commercial   15 sq. ft.               Other: Permit required:
                frontage
Sign Type       Maximum      Maximum Copy Area        Other Requirements
                Number
Awning          -            5 sq. ft.                May not be used as
                                                      primary wall sign
                                                      For multi-tenant
                                                      building. Freestanding
                                                      real estate sign must be
                                                      removed at 75% occupancy.
                1 wall or                             Wall sign may still be
Real estate or  freestanding                          used on the premises
construction    per          20 sq. ft.               available for lease/sale.
                commercial                            If the premises available
                frontage                              for lease is not visible
                                                      from the public right of
                                                      way an alternative wall
                                                      may be selected for
                                                      display of the sign
 
TABLE 9-4-8E
SIGNS FOR RANDALL ROAD AREA
Permit Required
Includes all property not otherwise contained within the residential and parks
area designation running from Sleepy Hollow Road west to the village limits.
This corridor generally encompasses the Randall Oaks Park And Golf Course,
Carrington Crossing Commercial Subdivision, Oakview Corporate Park and all
undeveloped commercially designated property straddling both Route 72 and
Randall Road.
Freestanding: Shall be ground signs or monument signs, pole signs are
prohibited. Only 1 type of freestanding sign is permitted per commercial or
secondary frontage
Sign Type       Maximum       Maximum Copy  Maximum       Minimum Other
                Number        Area          Height        Setback Requirements
Identification:                                                
                                                                  The square
                                                                  footage for 2
                                                                  allowed signs
                                                                  may be
                                                                  combined into
                              60 sq. ft.                          a single
                1 sign per    for first 300                       sign, if this
                commercial    linear ft. of                       option is
                frontage      commercial    8 ft. for             chosen the
                exceeding 50  frontage with ground                maximum copy
                ft. except    an additional 25 ft. for            area can be
                those         50 sq. ft.    monument or           increased by
 Ground        businesses    for each 300  the height of 10 ft.  10 sq. ft.
  Monument      within a      linear ft.    the nearest           for the first
                shopping      increment of  building              300 linear
                center shall  a single      whichever is          ft. and an
                not be        commercial    less                  additional 10
                allowed       frontage;                           sq. ft. for
                individual    maximum area                        each
                signs         200 sq. ft.                         additional
                                                                  300 linear
                                                                  ft.
                                                                  thereafter
                                                                  with a
                                                                  maximum of
                                                                  230 sq. ft.
                              50 sq. ft.
                              for first 300
                              linear ft. of
                              commercial    Shall not             Surface
                              frontage with exceed 20 ft.         mounted: Only
Development     1 sign per    an additional or the height         1 type of
identification  commercial    50 sq. ft.    of the        10 ft.  sign from
and directory   frontage      for each 300  nearest               this category
                              linear ft.    building              permitted per
                              increment of  whichever is          elevation
                              commercial    less
                              frontage;
                              maximum area
                              200 sq. ft.
Sign Type       Maximum       Maximum Copy Area           Other Requirements
                Number
                              10% of wall area, but no
                              sign shall exceed the       No wall signs shall
                1 sign per    following:                  be permitted for
                elevation     100 sq. ft. if the front    individual tenants in
                facing the    yard setback is 75 ft. or   a multi-story or
Wall            street or an  less or 150 sq. ft. if the  multi-tenant office
                access        front yard setback is 76    building, unless
                connection    ft. to 350 ft.              specifically
                              200 sq. ft. if the front    authorized as part of
                              yard setback is             an approved sign plan
                              351 sq. ft. or above
                                                          These signs are
                                                          support signs to
                                                          further delineate
                                                          product available in
Extra front     2 at          Up to 50% of the main       the store. Must be
wall for large  elevation     identification wall sign,   surface mounted wall
footprint       with front    exact size dependent upon   signs. Cannot be same
buildings       entrance      frontage and placement      copy as the main
                                                          identification sign
                                                          but cannot be
                                                          advertising slogan
                                                          lines
                May be used                               May not overhang
                as substitute 10% of wall area, but no    public or private
Blade           for 1         sign shall exceed 50 sq.    sidewalk or inhibit
                permitted     ft.                         line of sight
                wall sign
Awning          -             5 sq. ft.                   May not be used as
                                                          primary wall sign
                1 per                                     Other: Permit
Canopy          commercial    15 sq. ft.                  required:
                frontage
Sign Type       Maximum       Maximum Copy Area           Other Requirements
                Number
                                                          For multi-tenant
                                                          building.
                                                          Freestanding real
                                                          estate sign must be
                                                          removed at 75%
                                                          occupancy. Wall sign
                1 wall or                                 may still be used on
Real estate or  freestanding                              the premises
construction    per           32 sq. ft.                  available for lease/
                commercial                                sale. If the premises
                frontage                                  available for lease
                                                          is not visible from
                                                          the public right of
                                                          way an alternative
                                                          wall may be selected
                                                          for display of the
                                                          sign
 
TABLE 9-4-8F
SIGNS FOR SERVICE STATIONS AND SIMILAR AUTO SERVICE RELATED BUSINESSES
Permit Required
 
Freestanding: Only 1 type of sign permitted per frontage
Sign Type      Maximum       Maximum Copy Maximum Height Minimum Other
               Number        Area                        Setback Requirements
                                                                 Changeable
                                                                 copy, manual
                                                                 or electronic
                                                                 fuel price
                                                                 sign may be
                                                                 incorporated
               1 sign per                                        into any
Type as per    commercial or                                     freestanding
area           secondary     As per location regulations         sign. Must
regulations    frontage                                          comply with
                                                                 all
                                                                 regulations
                                                                 for electronic
                                                                 changeable
                                                                 copy
                                                                 signsSurface
                                                                 mounted:
Sign Type      Maximum       Maximum Copy Area           Other Requirements
               Number
Wall for main  1 per                                     Striping or graphics
building       commercial    As per location regulations will be calculated as
identification frontage                                  signage
                                                         Not allowed above the
                                                         canopy roofline.
                                                         Graphic treatment in
                             Calculated as wall signs    the form of striping
Canopy,        2 - placed on per area regulations but    or patterns shall be
freestanding   separate      shall not exceed 40% of the permitted on the face
identification edges of the  total square footage of the of any freestanding
               canopy        face area of the canopy     canopy, and the area
                                                         of any such graphic
                                                         treatment shall not be
                                                         calculated as a
                                                         component of permitted
Car wash                                                 Identification,
buildings or   1 additional  As per area regulations     directional or to
detached       wall sign                                 identify service
                                                         provided
 
(Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014)
9-4-9: SIGN DESIGN CRITERIA:
All signs must comply with the Appearance Review Code appropriateness criteria
as outlined and defined in chapter 6, "Appearance Review Code", of this title
and as follows:
   A.   The design, color and placement of signs shall be appropriate to the
structure, site and adjoining property in terms of materials, height, and
setback from the street and the sign's scale in proportion to the structure.
   B.   Where appropriate signs should complement the architectural style of
the building and should be designed as an architectural element of the building
or district.
   C.   Colors and materials should be restrained and in harmony with building
and site; excessive brightness and bizarre colors shall be avoided.
   D.   Graphic elements, colors and type and size of fonts on the sign should
be legible and held to a minimum to convey sign's major message. The major
message should be identification of the business or general profession not
advertising product or service specifically, therefore the emphasis should be
on the business name. Display of phone number, address and web address are
discouraged.
   E.   Signs should be compatible with signs on adjacent premises, not
designed to compete for attention.
   F.   Landscaping around freestanding signs is required to create visual
interest at grade level for both the pedestrian and the motorist.
   G.   In addition, the following shall apply within the historic area:
      1.   Awning signs and monument signs are encouraged; neon signs
discouraged unless appropriate to the architectural style.
      2.   Direct illumination signs shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2017-23, 10-23-
2017)
9-4-10: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Sign Strength: Any "sign" as defined in this chapter shall be designed
and constructed to withstand a wind pressure of not less than thirty (30)
pounds per square foot of net surface area; and shall be constructed to receive
dead loads as required by the Village Building Code and other Municipal
ordinances.
   B.   Sign Placement: No sign shall be erected or maintained in the sight
triangle or at a location that will obstruct ingress or egress, obstruct
motorist or pedestrian vision or interfere with utility clearances above or
below ground.
   C.   Sign Illumination: All illuminated signs must comply with the
applicable provisions of the National Electrical Code as adopted by the Village
and shall display a label, depicting the name of the producing sign company,
date of manufacture, and voltage. Indirectly illuminated signs shall not have
their light source beam upon any street or into any residential area. (Ord. 14-
02, 1-20-2014)
9-4-11: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, alter,
relocate, or maintain within the Village of West Dundee, any sign without first
obtaining a sign permit from the Community Development Department and making
payment of the required fee. However, the following maintenance activities do
not require a sign permit:
      1.   Changing the copy on a changeable copy sign.
      2.   Painting, cleaning and other normal sign maintenance including the
replacement of broken sign panels with another panel of the same copy and
color.
   B.   Application Data: Application for the sign permit shall be filed by the
owner of the sign or his agent, with the Community Development Department.
Applications are available on the Village website or at the Community
Development Department. Supplemental information that needs to be submitted
with a completed sign permit application if applicable includes:
      1.   Accurate plat of survey with sign dimensions and placement of sign
indicated.
      2.   A color shop drawing depicting plan specifications including
construction detail, electrical features, dimensions, color of all components
and height above grade.
      3.   Details on the sign copy including colors, typeface, letter spacing.
      4.   A sketch or photo of the building facade or site showing the sign
attached or erected.
      5.   Landscape plan for area adjacent to sign.
   C.   Sign Permit Fees: The sign permit applicant shall pay a fee according
to the following schedule. This schedule includes a plan review fee but does
not include an application fee for an appearance review which may be required.
      1.   Illumination signs: Four dollars ($4.00) per square foot of gross
surface area of each face thereof.
      2.   Nonilluminated signs: Two dollars ($2.00) per square foot of gross
surface area of each face thereof.
   D.   Permit Duration: A sign permit shall be in effect for six (6) months
after the date of issuance. If the work authorized under the permit has not
been completed within the six (6) month time period, the sign permit shall
become null and void. There shall be no refund of any sign permit fee required
by this chapter.
   E.   Transferability And Revocation Of Permits: Sign permits granted under
the terms of this chapter are not transferable. The building commissioner or
other designated official is hereby authorized and empowered to revoke any
permit issued by him if the holder of the permit fails to comply with any
provision of this chapter. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014)
9-4-12: PERMIT REVIEW PROCEDURES:
Upon receipt of the completed application, further information may be required
to allow for review of the application and full compliance with sign ordinance
provisions and all other laws and ordinances of the village.
   A.   Standard review:
      1.   Signs Within Historic Area: Permanent signs within the historic area
must be reviewed by the appearance review commission for compliance with
appearance review code criteria. The fact that a type of sign is permitted
shall not mean that a particular sign is appropriate in the proposed location
in the historic area.
      2.   Signs Outside Historic Area: Signs outside the historical area can
be reviewed and approved by the community development department if they are
found to be in compliance with all provisions of sign regulations including
appearance review code criteria and if they also meet the following additional
requirements:
         a.   The business is a regional, national or international brand and
use commonly recognized corporate colors and logos as part of an existing image
policy campaign.
         b.   For ground signs, the sign has a landscape component to enhance
the appearance of the sign, if applicable.
         c.   The copy area of the sign does not have more than four (4)
graphic elements.
         d.   The sign is part of a preapproved development or tenant sign
criteria.
Any sign outside the historic area that does not meet these requirements will
be submitted to the appearance review commission for review. The applicant is
responsible for submittal documents and application fee for such review.
   B.   Exceptions to standard review:
      1.   Master sign plan:
         a.   Sign standards and provisions that differ from those permitted by
the sign ordinance may be approved by the village board for annexations,
planned development projects concurrently with the approval of a general
development plan or sectional planning area.
         b.   The size, number and location regulations for any sign may be
altered pursuant to a development or redevelopment agreement or a memorandum of
understanding when the village board deems it necessary to promote the economic
development goals of the village.
      2.   Special event signs: Any sign including a prohibited sign may be
permitted only on a temporary basis as part of a special event approval granted
by the village board as per title 3, chapter 8 of this code and when the
village board determines that the additional signage is needed for the success
of the special event. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014)
9-4-13: APPEALS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Appeals: Any property owner or his agent may appeal any administrative
decision relative to any of the provisions of this chapter. The village board
shall hear all such appeals.
   B.   Exceptions: Any property owner or her agent may request an exception to
these sign regulations. The appearance review commission shall hear all
requests for authorized exceptions. If the requested exception is not an
authorized exception as listed herein, then the request for exception will be
processed as a text amendment before the village board of trustees.
      1.   Petition For Exception: The property owner or his agent seeking an
exception shall make application for appearance review and sign ordinance
exception consideration by completing an application for appearance review
appropriateness approval on forms provided by the community development
department and also available on the village website. All application
procedures for applying for appropriateness approval from the appearance review
commission as outlined in chapter 6 of this title.
      2.   Eligibility For Exception: All requests for exception must meet the
following eligibility criteria:
         a.   The exception is requested due to a unique circumstance for the
property or the business.
         b.   Granting the exception will not inhibit the fundamental purposes
and intent of the sign regulations.
         c.   The exception will not be detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to property in the vicinity of the lot for which an exception is
granted. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014)
      3.   Authorized Exceptions: The appearance review commission may grant
exceptions as follows:
         a.   To increase the sign area of a sign by no more than twenty five
percent (25%).
         b.   To allow a direct illumination sign in the historic area.
         c.   To permit an exception from the sign location restrictions or
minimum setback provided that any setback exception does not inhibit line of
sight for vehicles or pedestrians.
         d.   To allow exceptions to permanent window sign regulations.
         e.   To grant an exception to the rule in the historic area to allow a
property to display both a surface mounted sign and a freestanding sign.
         f.   To allow painted wall signs.
         g.   To allow one additional, an alternative type or to increase the
size by up to ten percent (10%) for a residential home based business sign.
         h.   To increase the height and display area of a monument sign when
four (4) or more tenant names are to be displayed. The height may not be
increased in excess of twenty five feet (25') or higher than the principal
structure.
         i.   To allow the display of a surface mounted sign for an office
tenant or building.
         j.   To allow deviation from the prescribed placement of an electronic
sign panel at the bottom of an overall sign panel immediately above the sign
base only in the case of a potential retrofitting of an existing monument/
ground sign.
         k.   To allow deviation from the required two foot (2') minimum height
of a masonry base only in the case of a potential retrofitting of an existing
monument/ground sign with an electronic sign panel.
         l.   To allow deviation from the prescribed minimum resolution
standard (pixel pitch spacing) in electronic signs. (Ord. 2015-33, 12-21-2015)
   C.   Recommendation And Final Decision: The appearance review commission
shall make a recommendation on the sign exception to the village board. The
village board shall then act to grant or deny a sign exception recommendation
from the appearance review commission. All such decisions shall be final and
the petitioner shall not resubmit the sign exception request for one year
following the date of its initial rejection. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014)
9-4-14: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Legal Nonconforming: All signs which were erected in compliance with
the sign regulations at the time of construction but are now not in compliance
with the sign ordinance of the village shall be declared to be legal
nonconforming signs.
All said legal nonconforming signs shall be subject to zoning code regulations
for nonconforming buildings, structures as included in title 10, chapter 11 of
this code.
   B.   Illegal Nonconforming: All signs which may have been erected illegally,
with or without a permit, that are determined to have been erected in violation
of the sign regulations at the time of construction shall be declared to be
illegal nonconforming signs.
All illegal nonconforming signs shall be brought into compliance with this code
within thirty (30) days after receipt of notification by the building official.
If an illegal nonconforming sign is not brought into conformity, abated or
removed within the time allotted, the village shall have the right to remove
said sign and to assess the cost of removal to the owner of the premises on
which said sign is located, and to impose a lien against the premises for the
cost of removal. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014)
9-4-15: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever any sign has been constructed or erected,
or is being maintained in violation of any terms of this chapter, or after a
permit for a sign has been revoked or become void, or that a sign is unsafe or
in such a deteriorated condition as to be a menace to the public safety or a
blight upon the aesthetics of the area, the building official shall issue a
violation notice in writing to the owner of the sign or the property owner of
the premises upon which the sign is erected or maintained. Such notice shall
include instruction for alteration, repair or removal as is necessary to secure
compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Removal Of Sign: Upon failure of the sign owner to comply with the
terms of the notice of violation, the building official or other designated
village official is authorized and empowered to remove, alter or repair the
sign in question so as to make it conform to this chapter, and charge the
expenses for such work to the person named in the notice.
   C.   Abandoned Signs: Signs that advertise a product or business that has
not been located on the premises for sixty (60) days or more shall be
considered abandoned. Abandoned signs do not have any value and may be removed
by the village with the expenses charged to the property owner or his agent.
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of
this chapter shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 14-02, 1-20-2014)
CHAPTER 5
STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Street Names
9-5-2: House Numbers
9-5-2-1: Numbering System
9-5-2-2: Plat Of House Numbers
9-5-1: STREET NAMES:
Except as otherwise provided, the names of the streets and avenues within the
village shall be and remain as the same exist on the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
9-5-2: HOUSE NUMBERS:
9-5-2-1: NUMBERING SYSTEM:
   A.   All buildings on lands contiguous to and fronting on any street or
avenue within the village shall have attached thereto, or permanently painted
thereon, upon the door facing such street or avenue, or upon some other equally
conspicuous place, the correct number of such building, so that it can be
easily and distinctly read.
   B.   The numbers of said premises lying south of Main Street shall, in the
block between said Main Street and Oregon Avenue, contain the numbers between
100 and 200; and the premises in the blocks between Oregon Avenue and Liberty
Street and south of Main Street shall contain the numbers between 200 and 300,
and each subsequent block south of said Main Street shall contain numbers
between the next 100 until each of said blocks south of Main Street has
received numbers 100 more than the block immediately north of itself. All
blocks between Main Street and Washington Street shall contain the numbers from
100 to 200, and each succeeding block immediately north of said block just
enumerated shall receive numbers 100 more than the previous block; the blocks
between First Street and Second Street shall receive the numbers from 100 to
200, and each succeeding block west of said block shall receive numbers 100
more than the previous block; and the blocks east of said First Street shall
receive the numbers from 1 to 100; the premises abutting streets and/or avenues
lying south of Main Street shall be known as "south #     ", and the premises
abutting streets north of Main Street shall be known as "north #     ", and the
premises abutting other streets and/or avenues east and west of said First
Street shall receive no designation except the number of said premises.
   C.   All persons owning or occupying any building used or to be used for
residence or business purposes, situated and fronting on lands contiguous to
any street or avenue within the village, are hereby required to cause the
correct number of such building to be placed thereon, of the dimensions and in
the manner provided by this chapter, within ten (10) days after notice thereof
by the village clerk. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
9-5-2-2: PLAT OF HOUSE NUMBERS:
The village clerk is hereby directed to keep on file a plat of the village,
upon which shall be designated the correct numbers for the buildings on each
parcel of land ascertained, as aforesaid; and he/she shall notify all owners
and occupants of buildings within the village to place the correct numbers on
such buildings in conformity with this chapter. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 6
APPEARANCE REVIEW CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Purpose And Policy
9-6-2: Definitions
9-6-3: Approval Required
9-6-4: Procedure For Approval Of Appropriateness
9-6-5: Criteria For Appearance
9-6-6: Information Submitted For Application Review
9-6-7: Relation To Other Ordinances
9-6-8: Penalties For Violations
9-6-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
The purpose and policy of this chapter is:
   A.   To preserve the character and quality of the village's heritage by
maintaining the integrity of those areas which have discernible character or
are of special historic significance;
   B.   To stabilize and preserve property values throughout the village;
   C.   To protect, enhance and perpetuate the distinctive historic, aesthetic,
architectural, cultural, social, and political characteristics of the village;
   D.   To encourage harmony and quality workmanship in the design of
buildings, awnings, signs, fences, parking lots, and other structures;
   E.   To encourage design that respects the attributes of the site, its
buildings and structures, and surrounding buildings, structures, and
properties;
   F.   To encourage and inspire public and private participation in the
enhancement of community appearance and to provide the necessary leadership;
   G.   To protect the public health, safety, comfort, general welfare of, and
public investment in, the village;
   H.   To avoid and prevent deterioration of the character and appearance of
the village;
   I.   To provide a favorable environment for residents and business
activities, and strengthen the economy of the village; and
   J.   To give due consideration to the fact that all applicants have
budgetary constraints and that enforcement of this chapter should not create a
disincentive to investment. (Ord. 08-09, 2-18-2008)
9-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
   ALTERATION: Any change in size, shape, color, occupancy or use of a building
or structure or the renovation or rehabilitation thereof other than a change of
use pursuant to the zoning ordinance of the village.
   APPROPRIATENESS: Suitable, fitting, proper, relevant.
   APPROPRIATENESS APPROVAL: Approval from the West Dundee appearance review
commission authorizing plans to construct, demolish, renovate, alter, or extend
any building or structure and certifying that the exterior design features of
an applicant's plans are suitable and consistent with the appearance review
code.
   ARCHITECTURAL STYLIZATION: To conform or create in a distinctive or specific
design of structure or building or building feature.
   BLOCK FACE: The combined view of the building facades along a designated
street or parking lot frontage.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL: Member of the community development department who is
charged with the administration and enforcement of the building code, or the
duly authorized representative of said official.
   CODE: The Appearance Review Code as set forth in this chapter.
   COMMENSURATE: In proper conformance proportion; proportionate.
   COMMISSION: The West Dundee Appearance Review Commission.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: The head of the Community Development
Department.
   CONSTRUCTION: The erection, demolition, or extension of any building or
structure.
   DESIRABLE TRANSITION: Aesthetically pleasing, safe and effective visual or
physical passage from one feature place or structure to another.
   EXTERIOR DESIGN FEATURE: The general arrangement of any portion of a
building, site or structure. This includes the kind, color, and texture of
building materials of such portion, and the type of roof, windows, doors,
lights and other fixtures appurtenant to such portions as will be open to view
from any street, place or way.
   HARMONY: Accord or agreement in feeling, manner, action or view.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT: That portion of the Village of West Dundee legally
described as follows:
Beginning at the northwest corner of lot 5, block 8 of the Original Town of
West Dundee (near the intersection of Route 72 and Route 31), thence in a
southerly direction along the west line of said lot, approximately 60 feet,
thence in an easterly direction to the east line of said lot, approximately 60
feet, thence in a southerly direction along the east line of said lot
approximately 90 feet to the southeast corner of said lot, thence in an
easterly direction along the south line of the plat of the Original Town of
West Dundee through blocks 8, 7, 6, 5, and 4 of said subdivision, approximately
1,563 feet, to the southeast corner of lot 3, block 4 of the Original Town of
West Dundee, thence in a northerly direction along the east line of said lot
approximately 14 feet to the southwest corner of lot 2 in Erwin Schmidt's
Subdivision, thence in an easterly direction along the south line of said lot,
approximately 120 feet to the westerly right-of-way line of Third Street,
thence continuing easterly across Third Street, approximately 60 feet to the
west line of lot 5, block 3 of the Original Town of West Dundee, thence in a
southerly direction, approximately 14 feet to the southwest corner of the said
lot, thence in an easterly direction along the south line of the plat of the
Original Town of West Dundee through blocks 3, 2, and 1, and along said line
extended approximately 1,120 feet to a point approximately midway between the
banks of the Fox River, thence in a northerly direction following a line
located approximately midway between the banks of the Fox River approximately
600 feet, to a point where the approximated midpoint of the Fox River
intersects with the westerly right of way line of First Street extended, thence
in a southerly direction along said line approximately 200 feet, to the
northeast corner of lot 1, block 14 of the original Town of West Dundee, thence
in a westerly direction along the north line of lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, block
14 of the Original Town of West Dundee approximately 300 feet to the easterly
right-of-way line of Second Street, thence continuing in a westerly direction
across Second Street, approximately 60 feet to the northeast corner of lot 1,
block 13 of the Original Town of West Dundee, thence in a westerly direction
along the north line of lots 1 and 2, block 13 of the Original Town of West
Dundee approximately 120 feet, to the southeast corner of lot 8, block 13 of
said subdivision, thence in a northerly direction along the east line of said
lot line extended approximately 180 feet to the center line of Washington
Street, thence in a westerly direction along the center line of Washington
approximately 150 feet to its intersection with the center line of Third
Street, thence in a southerly direction along the center line of Third Street
approximately 180 feet, to the intersection of said center line of the northern
line of lot 9 block 12 of the Original Town of West Dundee extended, thence in
a westerly direction along said line extended and the north line of lots 9, 10,
and 11, block 12 of the Original Town of West Dundee approximately 210 feet to
the northwest corner of lot 11, block 12 of the Original Town of West Dundee,
thence in a southerly direction along the west line of said lot, approximately
30 feet, to the northeast corner of lot 2, block 12 of the Original Town of
West Dundee, thence in a westerly direction along the north line of said lot
extended approximately 150 feet, to the center line of Fourth Street, thence in
a northerly direction along the center line of Fourth Street approximately 210
feet to its intersection with the center line of Washington Street thence in a
westerly direction along the center line of Washington Street approximately 360
feet, to its intersection with the center line of Fifth Street thence in a
southerly direction along the centerline of Fifth Street approximately 210
feet, to the point of intersection with the north line of lot 2, block 11 of
the Original Town of West Dundee extended, thence in a westerly direction along
said line extended approximately 150 feet to the northwest corner of lot 2,
block 11 of said subdivision thence in a northerly direction along the east
line of lot 11, block 11 of the Original Town of West Dundee, approximately 30
feet, to the northeast corner of said lot, thence in a westerly direction along
the north lines of lots 11, 10, and 9, block 11 of the Original Town of West
Dundee approximately 180 feet to the eastern right-of-way line of Sixth Street,
thence continuing in a westerly direction across Sixth Street, approximately 60
feet to the northeast corner of lot 1, block 10 of the Original Town of West
Dundee, thence in a westerly direction along the north lines of lot 1, 2, 3, 4,
and 5, block 10 of the Original Town of West Dundee approximately 300 feet to
the eastern right-of-way line of Seventh Street, thence continuing in a
westerly direction across Seventh Street, approximately 60 feet to the
northeast corner of lot 1, block 9 of the Original Town of West Dundee, thence
in a westerly direction along the north lines of lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, block
9 of the Original Town of West Dundee approximately 300 feet, to the northwest
corner of lot 5, block 9 of the Original Town of West Dundee, thence in a
southerly direction along the west line of said lot, approximately 150 feet to
the northerly right-of-way line of Main Street, thence continuing southerly
across Main Street approximately 80 feet to the point of beginning.
   MUNICIPAL CODE: The Municipal Code of the Village of West Dundee, of 1989,
as amended.
   PREDOMINANT BUILDING FEATURE: The part or parts of the structure that
significantly influences the view, usefulness or aesthetics of the structure.
   PROPORTION: Relative magnitude, number or degree as existing between parts,
a part and whole or different things.
   RELATIONSHIP: A determination of how certain elements interact.
   REPAIR: The replacement of existing work with the same kinds of materials
and colors for the purpose of maintenance.
   STRUCTURE: Anything existing, constructed or erected, the use of which
requires permanent location on the ground.
   USE: The purpose or activity for which the land, building or structure
thereon, is designated or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   VILLAGE: The Village of West Dundee.
   VILLAGE BOARD: The Board of Trustees of the Village of West Dundee.
   VILLAGE CLERK: The Clerk of the Village of West Dundee.
   VILLAGE MANAGER: The Manager of the Village of West Dundee.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The President of the Village of West Dundee. (Ord. 08-09,
2-18-2008; amd. Ord. 2017-27, 11-20-2017)
9-6-3: APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Appropriateness Approval Required: Approval of appropriateness shall be
required before the construction of any building or structure that falls under
the jurisdiction of the commission. Approval of appropriateness for an
alteration shall be required whenever the building official within his
discretion determines that a building or structure will be altered in such a
manner as to produce a major change in the exterior design feature of such
building or structure.
   B.   Expiration Of Approval: Such approval of appropriateness shall be valid
for a period of one year. If a building permit is not issued for the
improvement within one year, the approval will expire. Upon expiration, the
Village Board will either grant a one year extension of approval or remand the
matter to the Appearance Review Commission to review the approval for
compliance with the Appearance Review Code.
   C.   Decisions On Approval Of Appropriateness: The decision to grant or deny
approval of appropriateness or grant approval of appropriateness subject to
modifications of an application shall only be based on a review of the matters
within the scope of the work for which an application for a building permit has
been filed and shall not be based upon any other consideration whatsoever.
   D.   Exemptions: Repairs to buildings or structures as defined in section
9-6-2 of this chapter, may be made without application for an approval of
appropriateness or other notice to the commission. (Ord. 08-09, 2-18-2008)
9-6-4: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF APPROPRIATENESS:
   A.   Building Official's Duty: It shall be the duty of the building
official, after receipt of an application for a permit, to determine and advise
the applicant whether, under the provisions of this chapter, approval of
appropriateness is required.
      1.   Preapplication Conference: Any applicant who requires approval of
appropriateness is encouraged to attend a preapplication conference with
members of the Community Development Department who shall review with the
applicant those criteria set forth in section
9-6-5 of this chapter. The applicant shall be given general direction to assist
in the development of plans or specifications which would be consistent with
such criteria.
      2.   Application, Materials And Fee: An application for approval of
appropriateness shall be made on forms to be provided by the Village. Each
application shall be accompanied by such plans and materials set forth in
section
9-6-6 of this chapter. A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be required
for the submission of an application for approval of appropriateness.
         a.   No fee shall be required for the submission of an application to
construct a front yard fence.
      3.   Construction, Demolition, Alteration Or Site Development Permit: No
application for a construction, alteration, demolition or site development
permit shall be approved by the building official unless approval of
appropriateness has been issued for the same work when required.
      4.   Submission Of Application: An applicant for an approval of
appropriateness shall submit the application to the Community Development
Department.
   B.   Action Of Appearance Review Commission: The fact that an application
for appropriateness approval has been filed shall not be cause for the building
official to delay the review of plans relating to the building and zoning
aspects of the project while said application is pending. Applications for
approval of appropriateness shall be submitted at least ten (10) business days
prior to the regularly scheduled commission meeting. At such meeting, the
commission shall consider the application for approval of appropriateness and,
if necessary, receive additional evidence from the applicant and from Village
personnel or other persons as to whether the exterior design features of the
construction or alteration comply with the criteria set forth in section
9-6-5 of this chapter. The commission shall make specific written findings for
each of the relevant criteria. All testimony given at such meeting shall be
under oath.
The commission shall take action and vote upon the application at such meeting.
For projects which require consideration by the planning and zoning commission,
formal consideration thereof by the commission shall occur after the planning
and zoning commission hearing on the project has been completed and prior to
consideration by the village board in order that the recommendations from the
commission and the planning and zoning commission may be presented to the
village board at the same time. The issuance of appropriateness approval does
not imply approval or compliance with the zoning ordinance or any other
ordinances of the village.
   C.   Failure Of Commission To Act: In the event the commission fails to act
on an applicant's request for approval of appropriateness after a complete
application has been received by the commission in conformance with submission
rules, the applicant shall have the right to submit his application directly to
the village board. Such request shall be made in writing and submitted to the
village manager. The village board shall then consider and decide on the
applicant's request within a reasonable time.
   D.   Approval By The Appearance Review Commission: At the public meeting
required under section
2-2-3 of this code, the commission shall review each application for compliance
with the criteria set forth in section 9-6-5 of this chapter. At such meeting,
the commission shall either:
      1.   Approve the application as submitted and issue approval of
appropriateness; or
      2.   Approve the application and issue approval of appropriateness
subject to specific modifications; or
      3.   Deny approval of said application.
   E.   Appeal To The Board Of Trustees:
      1.   An applicant may appeal a decision of the commission either denying
an application or approving such application subject to modifications that the
applicant has not accepted by filing an application for appeal to the village
board within thirty (30) days after receiving the decision of the commission.
Such application for appeal shall include the following information:
         a.   A copy of the original application; and
         b.   A statement of the applicant's position as to the alleged errors
in the commission's denial of the application or, as the case may be, the
issuance of approval of appropriateness subject to modifications, as to why an
approval of appropriateness should be issued or issued without modifications
thereto.
      2.   The village board shall consider each application for appeal or
direct submission of an application at its first regular meeting scheduled
after the filing of such application for appeal or submission of application,
unless otherwise agreed to by the village and the applicant. Upon review of the
application upon appeal and the findings and decision of the commission, or as
the case may be, a direct submission of an application, the village board by
resolution accompanied by written findings duly adopted may either:
         a.   Approve the application as submitted and issue approval of
appropriateness; or
         b.   Approve the application subject to specific modifications and
issue appropriateness approval; or
         c.   Deny approval of said application either with or without a remand
to the commission for further consideration.
   F.   Emergency Measures: The issuance of approval of appropriateness is not
required when, in the opinion of the building official, there is actual and
immediate danger of collapse or failure of a building or structure or any part
thereof which would endanger life.
   G.   Amendments: Amendments to approval of appropriateness may be obtained
by application in the same manner as provided for an original approval of
appropriateness.
   H.   Enforcement; Building Official: Upon the granting of approval of
appropriateness or any amendments thereto, the exterior drawings, sketches,
landscape and site plans, renderings and materials upon which said approval was
granted shall be turned over to the building official whose responsibility it
shall be to determine, from time to time, as the project is in progress and
finally upon its completion, that there have been no substantial deviations
therefrom. Such deviations shall constitute a violation of this chapter and
shall affect an immediate revocation of the approval of appropriateness.
      1.   It shall be the duty of the person, firm or corporation to whom
approval of appropriateness has been granted and their successors and assignees
to comply with the requirements of the approval of appropriateness and to
obtain such inspections as may be necessary in order to assure compliance with
said approval. The building official will notify such person or persons of any
violations found to exist and if the said violations are not corrected within
ten (10) days, the community development department may issue a stop work
order, and such work shall be immediately stopped until the violation is
corrected.
         a.   Any such stop work order shall be given orally and then confirmed
in writing to the owner of the property involved, or to the owner's agent, or
to the person doing the work.
         b.   Any person who shall continue any work in or about the building,
structure or site after having been served with a stop work order, except such
work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation, shall be in
violation of this chapter.
      2.   Before any use may be made of improvements constructed under the
provisions of this chapter, a final inspection of the premises must be
performed by the building official and an occupancy certificate or such
buildings or structures requiring occupancy permits will not be issued unless
such an inspection has been made and completed and work found to be in
substantial compliance with plans approved by the commission and under which
the approval of appropriateness was issued except as otherwise provided in this
section.
      3.   If it should become impossible by reason of weather, strike or any
other circumstance beyond the control of the person, firm or corporation to
whom the approval of appropriateness has been granted or his successors or
assigns to complete all work required before occupancy or start of use, the
building official may, but shall not be obligated to, temporarily approve such
use and/or an occupancy permit with a written agreement by the applicant to
guarantee completion of the remainder of the work required by the approval of
appropriateness as soon as the circumstances causing such impossibility have
ceased.
      4.   In the event the person, firm or corporation to whom the approval of
appropriateness has been granted fails to complete the required work, a final
occupancy permit will not be issued for those buildings or structures which
require occupancy permits. (Ord. 08-09, 2-18-2008)
9-6-5: CRITERIA FOR APPEARANCE:
The issuance of an approval of appropriateness is subject to proof of
conformance with the relevant criteria set forth below:
   A.   Relationship Of Building To Site And Adjoining Properties:
      1.   The scale, height and the placement of the structure on the site
shall be appropriate to the site in terms of the proportion of the site covered
by the structure and the location of the structure in relation to lot lines.
      2.   Excessive similarity or dissimilarity in design in relation to
surrounding or adjoining structures, including, but not limited to, predominant
building height, exterior materials, building mass, roofline, and architectural
features, shall be discouraged.
      3.   The height of any proposed alteration or construction shall be
compatible with the style and character of the subject building or structure
and with surrounding structures in the immediate area.
      4.   Building and site design shall take into consideration the
relationship to the street and the pedestrian environment.
In addition, the following shall apply in the historic district:
      5.   Every reasonable effort shall be made to provide a compatible use
for a property that requires minimal alteration of the original building,
structure or site and its environment if there is historical precedent as
determined by the village.
      6.   Architectural features from other buildings or structures shall not
be undertaken when not compatible to the original design of the building or the
block face of the district.
      7.   Rear entrances that complement and reflect the original building
design or block face, where appropriate are encouraged.
   B.   Site Design:
      1.   The site should be planned to accomplish a desirable transition with
the streetscape and to provide for adequate planting (see subsection E of this
section), pedestrian movement and parking areas; attractive pedestrian vistas
are encouraged.
      2.   Parking, storage, and refuse areas shall be located and screened so
as not to negatively affect neighboring properties.
      3.   Parking areas shall be designed to minimize dangerous movements and
promote good traffic flow.
      4.   When appropriate, provisions should be included to allow for free
flow between sites and appropriate pedestrian amenities.
In addition, the following shall apply within the Historic District:
      5.   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a building,
structure or site and its environment shall not be destroyed. The removal or
alteration of any distinguishable architectural feature shall be prohibited
unless said material is deteriorated beyond repair.
      6.   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such manner that if removed in the future, the essential form and
integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
      7.   New construction should take into consideration the streetscape or
block face scale, design era and style.
   C.   Building Design:
      1.   Materials shall be selected for suitability to the type of building
and for the design in which they are used.
      2.   Materials used in the construction and design of the structure shall
be of durable quality.
      3.   Colors selected for a design or area shall be harmonious. Bizarre
and exotic colors should be avoided. Accents should be subdued, kept to a
minimum and appropriate for the design era.
      4.   Mechanical equipment shall be located or screened so as not to be
visible from surrounding streets and properties.
      5.   Components such as windows, doors, eaves and parapets should have
good proportion and relationship to one another.
      6.   Harmony in texture, lines and masses should be encouraged and
monotony avoided.
      7.   Architectural stylization shall be honored in detail components.
In addition, the following shall apply to the Historic District:
      8.   Distinctive features, finishes and construction techniques or
examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property shall be preserved.
      9.   Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired or replaced in
kind. When the severity of deterioration requires replacement of an
architectural feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of missing
architectural features should be based on accurate duplications of features,
substantiated by historic, physical or pictorial evidence whenever possible
rather than on conjectural designs or the availability of different
architectural elements from other buildings or structures.
      10.   The quality of materials and craftsmanship used in a rehabilitation
project must be commensurate with the visual quality of materials and
craftsmanship of the historic building or structure. Materials or treatments
that may cause or accelerate physical deterioration should be avoided. (Ord.
08-09, 2-18-2008)
   D.   Sign Design:
      1.   The design, color and placement of signs shall be appropriate to the
structure, site and adjoining property in terms of materials, height, and
setback from the street and the sign's scale in proportion to the structure.
      2.   Where appropriate signs should complement the architectural style of
the building and should be designed as an architectural element of the building
or district.
      3.   Colors and materials should be restrained and in harmony with
building and site; excessive brightness and bizarre colors shall be avoided.
      4.   Graphic elements, colors and type and size of fonts on the sign
should be legible and held to a minimum to convey sign's major message.
      5.   Signs should be compatible with signs on adjacent premises, not
designed to compete for attention.
      6.   Landscaping around freestanding signs is required to create visual
interest at grade level for both the pedestrian and the motorist.
In addition, the following shall apply within the Historic District:
      7.   Awning signs and monument signs are encouraged; neon signs
discouraged.
      8.   Internally illuminated sign boxes shall be prohibited.
   E.   Landscaping And Site Lighting Design:
      1.   Landscaping shall provide an aesthetically pleasing design and,
where applicable, shall provide for the screening of parking, storage, refuse
and utility areas from the street and adjacent properties.
      2.   Selected plant material shall be suitable to the climate and to
their location on the site. Four (4) season plantings to provide color and
interest throughout the year are required.
      3.   Large bed areas where plants can be used in masses are encouraged
over smaller difficult to maintain areas.
      4.   Exterior lighting should enhance the building design and adjoining
landscape and building signage.
      5.   Light fixtures of a design and size compatible with building and
adjacent area.
      6.   Lighting should be restrained in design and excessive brightness and
brilliant colors avoided.
      7.   Exterior lighting shall not be designed to permit an adverse effect
upon neighboring property; light sources shall be adequately shielded from
view.
      8.   For site design, the use of the West Dundee style streetlight in
private parking lots and the use of gooseneck and architectural building
lighting are encouraged. (Ord. 2017-23, 10-23-2017)
   F.   Maintenance:
      1.   In locations where plants will be susceptible to injury by
pedestrian or motor traffic they should be protected by appropriate curbs, tree
guards and other devices.
      2.   Walkways should be included through planting areas to allow for
pedestrian movement with paving stones and brick pavers.
      3.   Building materials and finishes shall be selected for durability and
wear as well as for beauty and other components.
      4.   Provisions for washing and cleaning of buildings and structures,
control of dirt and refuse, and storage of snow should be included in the
designs.
      5.   Configurations that tend to catch and accumulate debris, leaves,
trash, dirt and rubbish should be avoided.
In addition, the following shall apply within the Historic District:
      6.   Building facades shall be maintained as to avoid the deterioration
of design and structural elements, including, but not exclusive to, face brick,
architectural elements, and all window components.
      7.   The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken with the
gentlest means possible. Sandblasting, grinding, or other cleaning methods that
will damage the historic building or structure materials shall not be
undertaken.
      8.   Selecting colors from the historic color palette and applying them
as intended is encouraged.
   G.   Demolition: In cases where a demolition permit is requested, each case
shall be reviewed in light of the following:
      1.   Is the building or structure of such architectural interest that its
removal would be a determent to the public interest?
      2.   Is the building or structure of such old and unusual or uncommon
design, texture and material that it could not be reproduced or reproduced only
with great difficulty?
      3.   Would retention of the building or structure help preserve and
protect or adversely affect the cohesiveness, significance or general standards
of the Historic District or community?
      4.   Would retention of the building or structure promote the general
welfare by maintaining and increasing real estate values, generating additional
buildings in the Commercial District, create new employment opportunities,
attract tourists, encourage study and interest in the village history and make
the village an even more attractive and desirable place to live? (Ord. 08-09,
2-18-2008)
9-6-6: INFORMATION SUBMITTED FOR APPLICATION REVIEW:
An application for an appropriateness approval may be filed only by the owner
of the lot on which the construction or alteration is to occur, or by an agent,
lessee, or contract purchaser specifically authorized by the owner to file such
application. Dependent upon the requested consideration, one or more of the
following may be required:
   A.   Site Plan: A scaled drawing appropriate to the project with sufficient
detail to clearly convey the form and nature of all site improvements and
modifications and their relationships to adjacent properties. Documentation
shall include:
      1.   Project address;
      2.   Graphic scale, north reference;
      3.   Square foot area calculations for the building, pavement and
landscaping;
      4.   Dimensioned property lines, easements and building setbacks;
      5.   Adjacent streets, alleys and sidewalks;
      6.   Parking spaces including handicapped spaces;
      7.   Trash/refuse location and enclosures;
      8.   Proposed equipment (generators, compactors, transformers, HVAC,
etc.); and
      9.   Existing and proposed contours at two foot zero inch (2'0") maximum
intervals (if applicable).
   B.   Landscape Plan: Including depiction of:
      1.   New and existing plant material noting quantities, species
(botanical and common names), and size (in caliper or height at time of
installation and/or existing), and graphically distinguishing between new and
existing plant material and between species of new plant material;
      2.   Site furnishings and specialties;
      3.   Details about paving and other hard surface;
      4.   Height and locations of flagpoles, signage, light standards and
fences;
      5.   Screening, noting materials used as screen, height of screen
material, device or area which requires screening and height of device to be
screened (exterior areas which require screening include parking, refuse
storage and mechanical equipment); and
      6.   Stormwater retention/detention areas.
   C.   Signage Plan: To scale color drawings of the proposed signage, a
graphic description of the placement of the sign(s) and a graphic depiction or
photograph of the proposed signage at the site or on the building.
   D.   Lighting Plan: To scale depiction of location and style of exterior
lighting fixtures.
   E.   Building Elevations (Minimum Scale 1/8 Inch Equals 1 Foot 0 Inches): A
to scale drawing which provides exterior views of all new and existing street
level building facades and indicates the relationships of all visible from the
street building features.
   F.   Sign And Awning Elevations: Sign and awning elevations (minimum scale
1/4 inch equals 1 foot 0 inches) and materials samples.
   G.   Signage Criteria: Narrative document which forms the basis of a legally
binding agreement between landlord and tenant which sets forth requirements and
parameters for signage placement, sizes, quantities, quality, colors, materials
and graphic character. This will also serve as the basis of commission review
to permit future tenant modifications consistent with the aesthetic intent of
the project as a whole.
   H.   Material Samples: A display board which illustrates actual site and
building materials. Samples shall provide an accurate representation of color,
texture, finish, and range variations.
   I.   Other Information: Such other and additional data, information, or
documentation as the community development department or any board or
commission before which its application is pending may deem necessary or
appropriate to a full and proper consideration and disposition of the
particular application. (Ord. 08-09, 2-18-2008)
9-6-7: RELATION TO OTHER ORDINANCES:
This chapter supplements and is in addition to those provisions set forth in
the building code, zoning code, subdivision code and comprehensive plan for the
village. Nothing herein is to be construed as repealing any requirement
currently in effect relating to the proper wiring, plumbing and construction of
any building or structure or other work required to be in conformity with the
building code and other ordinances of the village within the boundaries of the
district. In all zoning districts, the provisions of the zoning ordinance,
municipal code, and this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 08-09, 2-18-2008)
9-6-8: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Fine: Any person who fails to perform any act required herein within
thirty (30) days of written notice of such failure, or performs any act
prohibited herein, shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
Each day such violation exists shall constitute a separate violation and
separate offense.
   B.   Injunction: In addition to the penalty provided above, the village may
bring an appropriate action in the circuit court or through administrative
adjudication as per title 6, chapter 8 of this code to enjoin any action by any
person in violation of this chapter and to restore any property to its
condition prior to such unauthorized action. (Ord. 08-09, 2-18-2008)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Compliance Requirements
10-1-2: Pending Actions
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: General Regulations
10-1-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to occupy or use any premises, building or structure in
the village excepting in full compliance with the provisions of this title, or
for any purpose other than those purposes or uses described in this title as
permitted uses in the district within which such buildings, premises or
structures may be located. And it shall be unlawful to occupy or use any
premises, building or structure in the village without compliance with all
provisions of this title relative to setbacks, parking lots or any other
restrictions or requirements applicable to the district in which such building
or premises or structure are located. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-1-2: PENDING ACTIONS:
The enactment of this title shall not in any way affect the liability of any
person for a violation of the zoning regulations enforced in the village prior
to the enactment of these provisions, and no use shall be considered as a
lawful nonconforming use under the provisions of this title unless such use was
a lawful use at the time it was commenced under the provisions of whatever
zoning provisions may have been in force at such time. The adoption of these
provisions shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under or by
virtue of the prior zoning provisions of the village, or as discontinuing,
abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or any
liability, for a violation of such prior zoning provisions. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion and protection of
the public health, safety, morals, welfare and convenience.
   B.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title upon the
use of land or buildings, bulk of buildings, floor area requirements, lot area
requirements and yard requirements are either more restrictive or less
restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other law, ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more
restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   C.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or other
private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this title are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such easements,
covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this title shall
govern.
   D.   No building, structure or use not lawfully existing at the time of the
addition of this title shall become or be made lawful solely by the reason of
the adoption of these provisions; to the extent that said unlawful building,
structure or use is in conflict with the requirements of this title, said
building, structure or use remains unlawful hereunder. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-1-4: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   All roadways, if not otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed
to be in the same zone as the property immediately abutting upon such street.
Where the centerline of a roadway serves as a district boundary the zoning of
such roadway unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be
the same as that of the abutting property up to such centerline.
   B.   The living area of a residence excludes garages, breezeways, porches
and basements or cellars.
   C.   Any area annexed to the village shall, upon such annexation, be
automatically zoned RE-1 single-family detached dwelling district unless
otherwise designated at the time of annexation.
   D.   Unless otherwise prohibited or restricted, uses and buildings
incidental to a permitted use are also permitted with or after but not before
the establishment of the permitted use, and only on the site or building plot
thereof. Such incidental uses or buildings shall be compatible with the
character of the district in which they are located. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense;
Words in the singular number shall include the plural number, the plural the
singular;
The word "building" shall include the word "structure";
The word "lot" shall include the word "plot";
The word "shall" is mandatory and not directory;
The word "may" is permissive;
All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot.
   ABUT, ABUTTING: Having a common property line or district line.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A subordinate building or structure or a
portion of a principal building, the use of which is incidental and customary
to that of the principal building, where an accessory building or structure is
attached to and made a part of the principal building, such accessory building
or structure shall comply in all respects with the principal building. With the
exception of an antenna, an accessory building or structure, unless attached to
and made a part of the principal building, as above provided for, shall not be
closer than ten feet (10') to the principal building.
   ADULT BUSINESS: Any establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade or business activity in a use such as, but not
limited to, the following: adults only bookstores, adults only motion picture
theaters, adult entertainment centers, rap parlors, adults only nightclubs or
adults only saunas, where explicit sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual
activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: See definition of Adult Business.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER: An enclosed building or part of an enclosed
building, which contains one or more coin operated mechanisms which when
activated permit a customer to view a live person nude or in such attire,
costume or clothing as to expose to view the human male or female genitalia;
pubic hair; buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; or, female breast, at or
below the areola thereof. In addition, the viewing of a live person, in the
above described manner, after paying of any admission or fee for the viewing of
same activity.
   ADULTS ONLY: Any items or activities emphasizing, depicting, describing or
relating to nudity, explicit sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity.
   ADULTS ONLY MEDIA STORE: An adults only establishment selling or renting
books, magazines, photographs, and films which are distinguished or
characterized by their principal emphasis on matters depicting, describing or
relating to nudity, explicit sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity. An
establishment, having adults only items as a substantial or significant portion
of its stock, that sells or displays adults only items for sale to patrons
therein.
   ADULTS ONLY MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building used regularly and
routinely for presenting adults only material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to nudity, explicit
sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual, homosexual or otherwise),
bestiality or sadomasochistic activity, for observation by patron therein.
   ADULTS ONLY NIGHTCLUB: An establishment or place either occasionally or
primarily in the business of featuring topless dancers, go-go dancers, exotic
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar entertainers, where
explicit sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or
implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
   ADULTS ONLY SAUNA: An establishment or place primarily in the business of
providing a steam bath and/or massage services, where explicit sexual conduct
is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or
tolerated.
   ALLEY: Any public right of way, with a width of not less than sixteen feet
(16') nor more than twenty four feet (24'), which affords a secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting properties. A street shall not be considered an
alley.
   ALTERATION: Any change in size, shape, occupancy or use of a building or
structure.
   ANIMAL CARE FACILITIES, INCLUDING VETERINARIAN OFFICES, ANIMAL HOSPITALS,
AND KENNELS: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation or treatment of domestic animals which may include boarding and/or
veterinary care
   ANIMAL/PET GROOMING SERVICES: Any business where clipping, bathing, and
related services are provided for dogs, cats, and other domestic pets but not
including veterinary care and/or daytime and overnight boarding.
   ANTENNA: Any structure designed for transmitting signals to a receiving
station or for receiving television, radio, data or other signals from
satellites or other sources, or both.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Any structure utilized for the principal purpose
of supporting an antenna.
   ANTIQUE STORE: A place offering antiques for sale. An antique is a product
that is sold or exchanged because of value derived or because of oldness as
respects the present age, and not simply because the same is not a new product.
An antique, for purposes of this chapter, shall be a work of art, piece of
furniture, decorative object or the like, of or belonging to the past, at least
thirty (30) years old.
   BANQUET HALL/ EVENT FACILITY: A building or portion (excluding facilities
located in restaurants or hotels) thereof where food, either prepared on the
premises or otherwise and/or beverages are provided on a prearranged basis for
consumption on premises which is primarily intended to accommodate one (1) or
more groups of diners or patrons for functions such as banquets, wedding
receptions and similar functions, is not open to the public, and the use
thereof is restricted to the invitees of the party contracting for use of the
facility or predetermined attendees such as ticket holders for a ticketed
event.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: An owner occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public which residence has no more than ten
(10) guest units for rent and is in operation for more than ten (10) nights in
a twelve (12) month period. Only the breakfast meal may be provided to the
registered guests. The service of food to the public for a charge is otherwise
prohibited. Bed and breakfast establishments shall not include motels, hotels,
boarding houses, or food service establishments.
   BEHAVIORAL/THERAPEUTIC SCHOOL: A school that offers an educational program
together with specialized structure and/or supervision tailored to students
with emotional and behavioral problems, substance abuse problems, or learning
difficulties. Therapeutic schools come in a variety of forms. They can be non-
residential and residential. The program may incorporate medications for
students with more serious disorders.
   BODY ART STUDIO: An establishment that provides body art services including
body piercing, artistic and cosmetic tattooing, and permanent make-up as
licensed and regulated by the Illinois Department of Public Health.
   BOOTH: Any enclosure that is specifically offered to patrons of an adult
business for the private viewing of any adults only item or movie. Said
definition does not include enclosures that are used as private offices by any
operator, employee or agent for attending to the tasks of their employment and
are not offered for use by the public.
   BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind, and which is
permanently affixed to the land.
   BUSINESS: Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials, or
where services are offered for compensation.
   CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or business
that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, dry,
cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary activities to make
cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or use at a processing
organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to- time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CANNABIS DISPENSING FACILITY OR DISPENSARY: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis- infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CANNABIS INFUSER FACILITY OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product
formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CANNABIS TRANSPORTING BUSINESS OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or business
that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to transport
cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a community college
licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot
Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be
amended from time-to- time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CEMETERY: A burial ground including structures such as mausoleums,
columbaria, incidental management offices, and maintenance facilities.
   COMMISSARY/COMMERCIAL KITCHEN: An establishment in which the principal use
is to engage in the preparation and production of prepared food items for off
premises consumption and/or sale. Typical uses for a commissary would be for
commercial food trucks, bakeries, and caterers. This classification does not
include businesses involved in the processing or manufacturing of wholesale
food products.
   CONSIGNMENT STORE: A retail establishment engaged in reselling new or used
merchandise, such as clothing, furniture, books, shoes or household appliances,
through a broker for the owner at an agreed upon price.
   CUBICLE: See definition of Booth.
   DAYCARE CENTER: A program, facility, or organization providing daytime
supervision or care for children or physically or mentally limited or
challenged adults in accordance with licensing as required by the State of
Illinois.
   DONATION-BASED: A business model that enables donation of money, real
estate, or used merchandise to help sustain a qualified non-profit charitable,
religious, educational or public service organization.
   DOOR: Full, complete, nontransparent closure device that obscures the view
or activity taking place within the enclosure.
   DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings,
and multiple-family dwellings; but not including hotels, motels, boarding or
rooming houses, tourist homes and trailers.
   DWELLING, DETACHED: A residential building which is entirely surrounded by
open space on the same lot.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A residential building containing one dwelling
unit, including detached, semidetached and attached buildings.
   DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as
living quarters for a family. A dwelling unit includes bathroom and kitchen
facilities in addition to sleeping and living areas.
   FAMILY: One of the following, except as otherwise provided herein:
   A.   Two (2) or more individuals related by blood, marriage or legal
adoption (including foster children), together with domestic servants and not
more than two (2) gratuitous guests, living as a single, not for profit
housekeeping unit occupying a dwelling unit.
   B.   Three (3) or fewer individuals not related by blood, marriage or legal
adoption (including foster children), living as a single, not for profit
housekeeping unit occupying a dwelling unit. Servants or guests residing with
said family shall be included in the unrelated person attained by this
definition, and shall not be in addition thereto.
   C.   No more than two (2) individuals who are not necessarily related to
each other by blood, and their dependents, together with domestic servants and
not more than two (2) gratuitous guests, living as a single, not for profit
housekeeping unit occupying a dwelling unit.
   FLOOR AREA: When prescribed as the basis of measurement for off street
parking spaces and loading spaces for any use shall be the sum of the gross
horizontal area of the several floors of the building, excluding hallways,
stairways, elevator shafts, boiler and air conditioning equipment rooms, areas
used for accessory off street parking facilities and the horizontal areas of
the basement and cellar floors that are devoted exclusively to uses accessory
to the operation of the building other than storage. All horizontal dimensions
shall be taken other than storage. All horizontal dimensions shall be taken
from the exterior faces of the exterior walls, or from the centerlines of walls
separating two (2) buildings.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO: A calculation of the size of a principal structure in
relation to the lot upon which it sits. The floor area ratio is calculated by
dividing the total floor area of a structure by the total area of the lot.
Covered porches and accessory motor vehicle storage structures (attached and
detached) shall be exempt from the floor area ratio.
   FRONT ELEVATION RATIO: A calculation of the visual bulk of a principal
structure from the public right-of-way in relation to the vertical plane of the
total lot width multiplied by the maximum allowable building height. The front
elevation ratio is calculated by dividing the overall area of the front
elevation of the principal structure by the maximum building height allowed in
the respective zoning district multiplied by the lot width as measured at the
frontage line.
   GROUP HOME: A single dwelling unit occupied on a relatively permanent basis
in a family like environment by unrelated persons with disabilities. Paid
professional support staff, provided by a sponsoring agency, either living with
the residents on a twenty four (24) hour basis, or present whenever residents
are present at the dwelling, shall be required unless a special use permit is
issued by the village to eliminate the requirement of supervision. A "group
home" shall comply with the zoning regulations for the district in which the
site is located.
   HOME OCCUPATION: A business, profession, occupation or trade that:
   A.   Is conducted for gain or support by a full time occupant of a dwelling
unit; and
   B.   Is incidental and secondary to the use of such dwelling unit for
dwelling purposes; and
   C.   Does not change the essential residential character of such dwelling
unit.
The regulations for a home occupation can be found in section
10-4-4 of this title.
   HOTEL: A building in which lodging or boarding and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation with ingress and egress to the rooms
through an inside lobby supervised at all hours.
   LOT: A parcel of land (whether legally described and subdivided as 1 or more
lots or parts of lots) located within a single block, occupied by or intended
for occupancy, by one principal building or principal use, together with any
accessory buildings and such open spaces are required by this title and having
its principal frontage upon a street.
   LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lot lines, measured within the lot boundaries.
   LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership, except that, where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley line.
   MASSAGE THERAPY: The manipulation of the body's soft tissues to treat body
stress or pain or facilitate wellness. Massage therapy shall be performed by
practitioners who are licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation.
   MEDIA: Anything printed or written, or any picture, drawing, photograph,
motion picture, film, videotape or videotape production, or pictorial
representation or any electrical or electronic reproduction of anything that is
or may be used as a means of communication. Media includes, but shall not
necessarily be limited to, books, newspapers, magazines, movies, videos, sound
recordings, CD-ROMs, other electronic or magnetic media, and undeveloped
pictures.
   MERCHANDISE: Goods, products or items that are purchased for consumption.
   MERCHANDISE, NEW: Not existing before, made, introduced or discovered for
the first time or already existing but seen, experienced or acquired recently
or now for the first time.
   MERCHANDISE, USED: Having already been used or introduced, having been
previously used or owned.
   MESSENGER SERVICE: A courier delivering messages, packages or letters from
one place or person to another place or person by way of foot, public
transportation, bicycle, motorcycle, or truck.
   MOTEL: A building or group of detached, semidetached or attached buildings
on a lot containing guestrooms or dwellings each of which has a separate
outside entrance leading directly from the outside of the building, with garage
or parking space conveniently located to each unit, and which is designed, used
or intended to be used primarily for the accommodation of automobile
transients. Motels do not include hotels, boarding houses or trailer camps.
   NIGHTCLUB: An establishment serving food and/or liquor and providing music
and space for dancing by patrons only. A nightclub shall not include an "adult
business".
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any building or structure and the use thereof or the use
of land that does not conform with the regulations of this title, or any
amendments thereto, governing use of the zoning district in which it is
located, but conforming with all the codes, ordinances and other legal
requirements applicable at the time such building or structure was erected,
enlarged or altered and the use of land was established.
   NUDITY: The display of the human male or female genitalia; pubic hair;
buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; female breast, at or below the
areola thereof, with no covering or with a less than fully opaque covering; or,
male genitalia, in a discernible turgid state, with or without covering.
   OBSCENE: Any material or performance is obscene if: a) the average person,
applying contemporary adult community standards, would find that, taken as a
whole, it appeals to the prurient interest; and b) the average person, applying
contemporary adult community standards, would find that it depicts or
describes, in a patently offensive way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic
sexual acts, whether normal or perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation,
excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the genitals; and c) taken as a
whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value 1 .
   OPERATOR: For purposes of an "adult business", as defined herein, any person
(whether said persons be an individual, partner, corporation, joint stock
company, fiduciary, officer, director, stockholder, employee, or manager),
which conducts, maintains or owns any adult business.
   OUTDOOR SALES LOT: An outdoor area set up to sell or display goods, arts and
crafts, plants, or other items, on a property. Outdoor sales may be temporary,
intermittent, or permanent.
   PARKING AREA: A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained area, either
within or outside of a building, of sufficient size to store one standard
automobile, but in no event less than ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20'),
exclusive of passageways, driveways or other means of circulation or access.
   PATRON: For purposes of an "adult business", as defined herein, any
customer, patron or visitor to an adult business who is not employed by any
operator of said establishment.
   PAWN STORE: Any business that loans money on deposit of personal property or
deals in the purchase or possession of personal property on condition of
selling the same back again to the depositor or to another party to recover the
money pledged.
   PERMANENT MAKE-UP: A cosmetic technique, often referred to as cosmetic
tattooing, which employs tattoos applied semi-permanently or permanently to
simulate the appearance of common cosmetic applications such as eyelines, lip
lines, eyebrow enhancements and beauty marks or to otherwise semi-permanently
or permanently restore or improve the appearance of damaged or disfigured skin
and outer bodily features to natural coloration and condition.
   PHOTOGRAPHY STUDIO: A workspace to take, develop, print, and duplicate
photographs. Photographic training and the display and sale of finished
photographs may also be accommodated in a photography studio.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM: An active solar energy system that converts solar
energy directly into electricity.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A parcel or tract of land under single ownership or
control, which contains two (2) or more principal buildings and one or more
principal use(s) planned and constructed as a unified development where
specific regulations of a given zoning district are modified through the
issuance of a special use permit.
   RAP PARLOR: An establishment or place primarily in the business of providing
nonprofessional conversation or similar services for adults, where explicit
sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly
encouraged or tolerated.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM: A system that generates energy from natural
resources such as sunlight, wind, and geothermal heat.
   ROOF-MOUNTED SYSTEM: A solar photovoltaic system attached to any part or
type of roof on a building or structure that is either the principal structure
or an accessory structure.
   ROOM: See definition of booth.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ACTIVITY: Flagellation or torture by or upon a nude person;
a person clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume. In addition, the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained with the
intent to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or the recipient.
   SECONDHAND MERCHANDISE, RETAIL SALES: Retail sales of previously used
merchandise, such as clothing, household furnishings or appliances, sports/
recreational equipment.
   SELL: Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the front line or the side
line of the building and the dedicated street line, disregarding steps and
unroofed porches.
   SETBACK ESTABLISHED BUILDING: When forty percent (40%) or more of the lots
fronting on one side of a street within a block are improved, the existing
building setbacks of such improved lots shall be the "established building
setback" for determining the required setbacks for the remainder of the lots
along such street frontage, as regulated in this title.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: Ultimate sex acts (whether autoerotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity. In addition,
physical contact, intended to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or
the recipient, with a person's unclothed genitalia, buttocks, perineum, anal or
pubic regions, or female breast.
   SHORT TERM RENTAL: Use of an entire dwelling unit located within a primary
structure for residential purposes for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days
or less.
   SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY: Use by a single occupant of private sleeping quarters
or living quarters within a primary structure designed for residential use,
typically with access to communal kitchen and bathroom facilities, for a
continuous period of thirty-one (31) days or more.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR: A device, structure or a part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A device or structural design feature, a substantial
purpose of which is to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of
solar energy for space heating or cooling, electricity generation, or water
heating.
   SPECIMEN COLLECTION FACILITY: A facility that collects materials derived
from the human body for the purpose of testing to provide information for the
diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of any disease or impairment of, or
assessment of the health of, human beings.
   STREET: Any public right-of-way containing a roadway which affords the
primary means of vehicular access to abutting properties. An alley shall not be
considered a street.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground including, but without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, advertising sign, backstops for tennis courts and pergolas.
   UNDERAGE: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age, the legally minimum
age at which one can purchase or view adults only items 2 .
   USE: The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   VENDING MACHINES: A nonattended machine or device that allows a person to
obtain goods or services. A vending machine will further be defined as a coin,
monetary or monetary equivalent machine or slot device operated, operable, or
actuated by such monetary equivalent as coins, bills, tokens or credit cards.
   WALL SIGN: Any flat sign which is placed against a building or other
structure and attached thereto in such manner that only one side is visible.
   YARD: An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky, except as hereinafter permitted. A "yard" extends
along a lot line and at right angles to such lot line to a depth or width
specified in the yard regulations for the district in which such lot is
located.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 95-09, 4-17-1995; Ord. 95-11, 6-5-1995; Ord.
97-23, 10-6-1997; Ord. 98-23, 9-14-1998; Ord. 01-25, 6-26-2001; Ord. 2014-12,
5-5-2014; Ord. 16-27, 9-12-2016; Ord. 2018-15, 8-6-2018; Ord. 18-17, 9-10-2018;
Ord. 2018-21, 10-8-2018; Ord. 2019-21, 8-19-2019; Ord. 2019-28, 12-2-2019; Ord.
20-20, 6-15-2020; Ord. 2021-21, 7-12-2021; Ord. 2022-05, 3-7-2022; Ord. 2022-
06, 3-7-2022; Ord. 2022-36, 11-7-2022; Ord. 2023-27, 10-2-2023; Ord. 2024-04,
2-19-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
2 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Zoning Districts Established
10-3-2: Allowable Use Of Land, Buildings Or Structures
10-3-3: Prohibited Use Of Land, Buildings Or Structures
10-3-4: Special Uses
10-3-5: Below Grade Regulation
10-3-6: Control Over Use
10-3-7: Building Height
10-3-8: Building On Lot
10-3-9: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-3-10: Yards In General
10-3-11: Permitted Obstructions In Required Yards
10-3-12: Outdoor Storage Of Recreational Vehicles, Boats, And Trailers (Rep. by
Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
10-3-13: Antennas
10-3-13-1: Residential Districts
10-3-13-2: Business And Industrial Districts
10-3-13-3: Additional Regulations
10-3-14: Amateur Radio Facilities With Surface Area Exceeding Ten Square Feet
10-3-15: Adult Business
10-3-16: Solar Regulations
10-3-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Districts Established: In order to carry out the purposes and
provisions of this zoning title, the village is hereby divided and organized
into the following zoning districts:
RE-1 Residential-estate dwelling district
   RE-2 Residential-estate dwelling district
   RE-3 Residential-estate dwelling district
   R-1 Single-family detached dwelling district
   R-2 Single-family detached dwelling district
   R-3 Single-family detached dwelling district
   R-4 Low density multiple-family district
   R-5 Medium density multiple-family district
   R-B Residential-business district
   B-1 Downtown business district
   B-2 Regional business district
   B-3 Business-service district
   O Office district
   ORD Office, research and development district
   L-1 Light industrial district
   SD Special development district
   B.   Zoning Map, Boundaries: The boundaries of designated districts are
shown upon the map made a part of this title, which map is designated as the
"zoning map of the village of West Dundee". The zoning map made a part of this
title and on file in the office of the village clerk and all notations,
references and other information shown thereon are a part of this title and
have the same force and effect as if the zoning map and all notations,
references and other information shown thereon were fully set forth or
described herein. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-3-2: ALLOWABLE USE OF LAND, BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
The following uses of land, buildings or structures are allowed in the
districts indicated hereinafter in chapters 4, 5 and 6 of this title, under the
conditions specified in this title:
   A.   Uses lawfully established and existing on the effective date hereof.
   B.   Uses lawfully established and existing on the effective date hereof,
rendered nonconforming by the provisions herein, shall be subject to the
regulations of chapter 11 of this title.
   C.   Permitted uses as designated in chapters 4, 5 and 6 of this title.
   D.   Special uses as designated in chapters 4, 5 and 6 of this title. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-3-3: PROHIBITED USE OF LAND, BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   No building or tract of land shall be devoted to any use other than one
which is specified as a permitted or special use in chapters 4, 5 and 6 of this
title of the zoning district in which such building or land is located.
However, where a building permit for a building or structure has been issued in
accordance with law, prior to the effective date hereof, and where construction
has been begun within six (6) months of such effective date and is being
prosecuted to completion, said building or structure may be completed in
accordance with approved plans on the basis of which the building permit was
issued; and further, may, upon completion, be occupied under a certificate of
occupancy by the use originally designated, subject to the provisions of
chapter 12 of this title.
   B.   The following uses are hereby prohibited to be conducted within the
boundaries of the village:
      1.   Cannabis craft growers;
      2.   Cannabis cultivated centers;
      3.   Cannabis infuser facility;
      4.   Cannabis processing facility; and
      5.   Cannabis transporting business. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord.
2019-28, 12-2-2019)
10-3-4: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   A classification of special uses is hereby established to provide for
the location of certain uses hereinafter specified which are deemed desirable
for the public welfare within a given district or districts, but which might
have an adverse effect upon nearby properties or upon the character and future
development of the district in which they are located. Procedures for special
uses are set forth in chapter 11 of this title.
   B.   Where a use exists on the effective date hereof and it is classified as
a special use by this title, it shall be considered to be a lawful special use.
Permits may be secured for additions or alterations to existing buildings or
land improvements for expansion of lawful special uses in accordance with the
procedures for special uses set forth in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
10-3-5: BELOW GRADE REGULATION:
No new dwelling unit shall be established or maintained where the entire
outside grade level shall be more than four feet (4') above the floor level of
the dwelling unit (excluding basements, cellars, recreation rooms, laundry
rooms, utility and storage areas). (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-3-6: CONTROL OVER USE:
No building or premises shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or
structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be erected, raised, moved,
reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered, except in conformity with the
regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located. (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989)
10-3-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The following items shall not be considered when computing the height of
buildings: steeples, church belfries, spires, chimneys and smokestacks, cooling
towers and elevator bulkheads, parapet walls and building equipment penthouses.
Also, an antenna structure attached to the roof of a building, for private
radio reception or transmission or television reception, to a height not
exceeding twelve feet (12') above the height of the building to which it is
attached; a ground supported antenna structure for private radio reception or
transmission or television reception to a height not exceeding twelve feet
(12') above the district height regulation; or as permitted in certain zoning
districts, an antenna structure ground or roof supported to a height not
exceeding twenty five feet (25') above the district height regulation, for
radio or television reception or transmission. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-3-8: BUILDING ON LOT:
   A.   In all residential districts and business districts, except in the case
of planned developments, not more than one principal detached building shall be
located on a zoning lot.
   B.   In the case of any lot or plot, substandard in area by the terms of
this title, but once legally buildable and thereafter singly and separately
held in fee ownership, the rights acquired or existing therein, for the use of
said lot or plot as a buildable parcel, shall terminate and become nonexistent
and void should the said substandard plot merge in fee with any adjoining land
or property, thereby creating a parcel to conform with the area requirements of
this title, or thereby enlarging a parcel already conforming with such
requirements. Such merger shall be deemed to occur when the same person or
persons acquire, obtain or have fee ownership in both parcels whether by
purchase, sale, devise, gift or otherwise. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-3-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Permitted In Various Districts: Accessory buildings, structures and
uses shall be permitted with all permitted and special uses as allowed in the
various zoning districts.
   B.   Compatibility: Accessory uses shall be compatible with the principal
use and shall not be established prior to the establishment of the principal
use, and shall not include the keeping, propagation or culture of pigeons,
poultry or livestock, whether or not for profit.
   C.   Conformance: Except as otherwise regulated by section
10-3-13 of this chapter or otherwise herein, an accessory building or structure
hereafter erected, altered, enlarged or moved on a lot shall conform with the
following:
      1.   An accessory building or structure containing less than two hundred
twenty (220) square feet shall not be closer to the nearest wall of the
principal building than three feet (3'), or ten feet (10') for accessory
structures containing more than two hundred twenty (220) square feet, and only
if all aspects of the accessory building conform to applicable building and
fire codes. Size limitations on accessory buildings in any permitted area
subject to provisions of this subsection C1.
      2.   An accessory building or structure shall not be located in a
required front yard. An accessory building or structure shall not be located
less than one hundred feet (100') from a front lot line in the RE-1 district,
seventy five feet (75') in the RE-2 and RE-3 districts and fifty feet (50')
from a front lot line in all other districts, except for a fence, which is
regulated by section
9-1A-7 of this code, or an accessory motor vehicle storage structure located on
corner lot in the R-3 district, which due to size limitation of the lot cannot
meet the fifty foot (50') front setback requirement may be located in the front
yard setback but not closer to the front lot line than the principal structure,
not between the principal structure and the street and no less than twenty one
feet (21') from the sidewalk. In no event shall an accessory building have a
front yard of less than the actual front yard of the principal building located
on said lot.
      3.   A detached accessory building or structure in a rear yard shall be
not less than three feet (3') from a lot line, except:
         a.   On corner lots, not less than the distance required for a side
yard abutting a street; or
         b.   On through lots, not less than the distance required for a front
yard; or
         c.   On all lots, an accessory building or structure having vehicular
access from an alley shall not be less than five feet (5') from the lot line
abutting the alley.
   D.   Total Ground Area Of Accessory Buildings: The total ground area of all
accessory buildings or structures permitted in a required rear yard shall not
occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the required rear yard.
   E.   Accessory Motor Vehicle Storage: Except as otherwise regulated by this
chapter, accessory motor vehicle storage uses (garages) shall not occupy more
than thirty percent (30%) of the required rear yard or exceed seven hundred
(700) square feet, whichever is greater. The maximum height shall not exceed
twenty four feet (24') in height or be higher than the principal structure. The
height of the structure is determined by the tallest portion of the roof
measured from grade. Principal structures with an attached motor vehicle
storage accessory use shall not be permitted a detached or a second attached
motor vehicle storage accessory use. Only one driveway or approach apron per
principal structure is allowed.
   F.   Total Ground Area Of Accessory Uses: The total ground area of all
accessory uses other than detached motor vehicle storage located in the
required rear yard may not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the
required rear yard or no more than two hundred twenty (220) square feet,
whichever is less. The square foot calculation applies to sheds, gazebos and
other structures except an aboveground or inground pool or hot tub; a
children's play set; a hard plastic type storage unit without foundation; an
open to the sky deck; a fountain or pond; a patio, walkway or retaining wall.
The height of a shed is limited to a maximum height of twelve feet (12'). Only
one shed is permitted per each zoning lot. (Ord. 2014-36, 10-6-2014; amd. Ord.
19-23, 10-7-2019)
10-3-10: YARDS IN GENERAL:
   A.   The minimum yard space required for one structure shall not again be
considered as yard space for another adjoining structure.
   B.   No lot shall be reduced in area so that the yards or other open spaces
and lot area become less than required by this title.
   C.   Except as may be otherwise required for setbacks along federal, state
or county highway rights of way, the setback requirement for a front yard shall
be as follows:
      1.   The depth required by the zoning district in which the lot is
located.
      2.   In the event that forty percent (40%) or more of the lots fronting
one side of a street within a block have established building setbacks, of a
depth other than required for a front yard by the zoning district in which the
lot is located, the front yard depth for each remaining lot, except for corner
lots, shall be as follows:
         a.   Extend a line from the closest front corner of the nearest
principal building adjacent to one side of the lot to the closest front corner
of the nearest principal building adjacent to the other side of the lot.
         b.   Extend a line, at a point equidistant between the side lot lines
the shortest distance between the front lot lines to a point where the said
line intersects the line mentioned in subsection C2a of this section.
         c.   Extend a line at said point of intersection to the side lot
lines, parallel to the front lot line. This line is the required setback line.
         d.   If no principal building exists on one side of the lot to the end
of the block, then extend the line described in subsection C2a of this section
to the point of intersection of the closest side lot line and front yard line
of the corner lot on such street frontage.
   D.   On a through lot, either of the lot lines abutting a street right of
way line in a given block may be established as the front lot line. However,
when the front lot line of a lot in a block containing through lots has been
established by an existing building, such front lot line shall be the front lot
line for the remaining lots in the block. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-3-11: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS IN REQUIRED YARDS:
The following obstructions, when located in the minimum area required for
specified yards, shall be permitted subject to compliance with all applicable
village ordinances:
   A.   In All Yards:
      1.   Chimneys projecting one and one-half feet (11/2') or less into the
required yard;
      2.   Flagpoles;
      3.   Ordinary projections of sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental
features projecting not more than one and one-half feet (11/2') into a required
yard;
      4.   Ornamental light standards;
      5.   Steps which are necessary for access to permitted buildings or for
access to lots from streets and required exterior fire escapes;
      6.   Signs and nameplates as regulated by the provisions of title 9,
chapter 4, "Sign Regulations", of this code.
   B.   In Front Yards:
      1.   Awnings and canopies, not ground supported, projecting not more than
three and one-half feet (31/2') into a required yard;
      2.   Fuel pumps and air and water outlets in conjunction with automobile
service stations, provided they shall be set back at least fifteen feet (15')
from the front lot line;
      3.   One-story bay windows, not ground supported, projecting three feet
(3') or less into a required yard, provided however, that the total width of
such bay windows shall not exceed one-half (1/2) the building width at the lot
line;
      4.   Open terraces not over four feet (4') above the average level of the
adjoining ground and not projecting over ten feet (10') into a required yard,
but not including permanently roofed over terraces or porches;
      5.   Overhanging eaves and gutters, projecting not more than fifteen
percent (15%) of the depth of the yards; (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
      6.   Fences, as regulated by the provisions of section
9-1A-7 of this code and subsection
10-4F-3D of this title. (Ord. 2001-20, 5-7-2001)
   C.   In Rear Yards:
      1.   Arbors and trellises;
      2.   Awnings and canopies not more than five feet (5') into a required
rear yard;
      3.   Balconies and open porches;
      4.   Detached private garages;
      5.   Fallout shelters, attached or detached;
      6.   One-story bay windows;
      7.   Overhanging roof eaves and gutters, provided that eaves and gutters
of detached accessory buildings are not less than two feet (2') from a lot
line;
      8.   Fences as regulated by the provisions of section
9-1A-7 of this code;
      9.   Open terraces not over four feet (4') above the average level of the
adjoining ground but not including permanently roofed over terraces or porches;
      10.   Open accessory off street parking and loading spaces;
      11.   Recreational playground, laundry drying equipment;
      12.   Private swimming pools;
      13.   Tennis courts;
      14.   Sheds, toolrooms or similar buildings customarily accessory to the
principal use.
   D.   In Side Yards:
      1.   Open accessory off street parking and loading spaces;
      2.   Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting not more than three feet
(3') into a required side yard but extending no closer than two feet (2') to a
lot line;
      3.   Awnings and canopies, not ground supported, extending no closer than
two feet (2') to a lot line;
      4.   Fences as regulated by the provisions of section
9-1A-7 of this code. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-3-12: OUTDOOR STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, BOATS, AND TRAILERS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2006-45, 8-17-2006)
10-3-13: ANTENNAS:
10-3-13-1: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
No antenna shall be erected, constructed, maintained or operated in any
residential zoning district except in conformance with the following
regulations:
   A.   Antennas With Surface Areas Of Ten Square Feet Or Less: Antennas and
antenna support structures having a combined surface area not greater than ten
(10) square feet, and no single dimension exceeding twelve feet (12'), shall be
permitted as an accessory use.
   B.   Antennas, Other Than Amateur Radio Facilities, With Surface Areas
Exceeding Ten Square Feet: Antennas and antenna support structures having a
combined surface area greater than ten (10) square feet, or having any single
dimension exceeding twelve feet (12'), shall be permitted as an accessory use
only in compliance with the following regulations:
      1.   Number Limited: No more than one such antenna and antenna support
structure may be located on any zoning lot.
      2.   Height Limited: No such antenna or antenna support structure shall
exceed twelve feet (12') in height unless such antenna and antenna support
structure is attached to a building pursuant to subsection B4 of this section
10-3-13-1.
      3.   Diameter Limited: No such antenna or antenna support structure shall
exceed ten feet (10') in diameter.
      4.   Attachment To Buildings Limited: No such antenna or antenna support
structure shall be attached to a principal or accessory structure unless all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         a.   Size: The antenna and its support structure shall not exceed
fifteen (15) square feet in area or twelve feet (12') in any dimension.
         b.   Height: The antenna and its support structure shall not extend
more than three feet (3') above the highest point of the building on which it
is mounted or the maximum permissible building height, whichever is less.
         c.   Mounting: The antenna and its support structure shall not be
attached or mounted upon any building appurtenance, such as a chimney. The
antenna and its support structure shall not be mounted or attached to the front
of any principal building or to the side of any building facing a street,
including any portion of the building roof facing any street. The antenna and
its support structure shall be designed to withstand a wind force of eighty
(80) miles per hour on its own and without the support of guy wires.
         d.   Color: The antenna and its support structure shall be a color
that blends with the roof or building side on which it is mounted.
         e.   Grounding: The antenna and its support structure shall be bonded
to a grounding rod.
         f.   Other Standards: The antenna and its support structure shall
satisfy such other design and construction standards as the building
commissioner determines are necessary to ensure safe construction and
maintenance of the antenna and its support structure.
         g.   Screening: The antenna and its support structure shall be located
so as to provide the maximum, reasonably achievable screening, as determined by
the building commissioner, of such antenna and antenna support structure from
view from adjoining properties and public or private streets.
      5.   Setback From Street: No such antenna or its support structure shall
be erected or maintained closer to any street than the wall of the principal
building to which it is accessory that is nearest to such street.
      6.   Guy Wires Restricted: No guy or other support wires shall be used in
connection with such antenna or its support structure except when used to
anchor the antenna or support structure to an existing building to which such
antenna or support structure is attached.
      7.   Screening: When any such antenna and antenna support structure is
ground mounted, appropriate landscaping or fencing shall be located and
maintained between such ground mounted antenna and antenna support structure
and each lot line of the property on which it is located so as to provide the
maximum, reasonably achievable screening as determined by the building
commissioner, of such antenna and antenna support structure from view from
adjoining properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more than ten feet (10') in
height. (Ord. 95-9, 4-17-1995)
10-3-13-2: BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
No antenna shall be erected, constructed, maintained or operated in any
business or industrial zoning district except in conformance with the following
regulations:
   A.   Antennas With Surface Areas Of Ten Square Feet Or Less: Antennas and
antenna support structures having a combined surface area not greater than ten
(10) square feet, and no single dimension exceeding twelve feet (12'), shall be
permitted as an accessory use.
   B.   Antennas, Other Than Amateur Radio Facilities, With Surface Areas
Exceeding Ten Square Feet: Antennas and antenna support structures having a
combined surface area greater than ten (10) square feet, or having any single
dimension exceeding twelve feet (12'), shall be permitted as an accessory use
only in compliance with the following regulations:
      1.   Number Limited: No more than one such antenna and antenna support
structure may be located on any zoning lot.
      2.   Height Limited: No such antenna or antenna support structure shall
exceed twelve feet (12') in height unless such antenna and antenna support
structure is attached to a building pursuant to subsection B4 of this section
10-3-13-2.
      3.   Diameter Limited: No such antenna or antenna support structure shall
exceed ten feet (10') in diameter.
      4.   Attachment To Buildings Limited: No such antenna or antenna support
structure shall be attached to a principal or accessory structure unless all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         a.   Height: The antenna and its support structure shall not extend
more than three feet (3') above the highest point of the building on which it
is mounted or the maximum permissible building height, whichever is less.
         b.   Mounting: The antenna and its support structure shall not be
attached or mounted upon any building appurtenance, such as a chimney. The
antenna and its support structure shall not be mounted or attached to the front
of any principal building or to the side of any building facing a street,
including any portion of the building roof facing any street. The antenna and
its support structure shall be designed to withstand a wind force of eighty
(80) miles per hour on its own and without the support of guy wires.
         c.   Color: The antenna and its support structure shall be a color
that blends with the roof or building side on which it is mounted.
         d.   Grounding: The antenna and its support structure shall be bonded
to a grounding rod.
         e.   Other Standards: The antenna and its support structure shall
satisfy such other design and construction standards as the building
commissioner determines are necessary to ensure safe construction and
maintenance of the antenna and its support structure.
         f.   Screening: The antenna and its support structure shall be located
so as to provide the maximum, reasonably achievable screening, as determined by
the building commissioner, of such antenna and antenna support structure from
view from adjoining properties and public or private streets.
      5.   Setback From Street: No such antenna or its support structure shall
be erected or maintained closer to any street than the wall of the principal
building to which it is accessory that is nearest to such street.
      6.   Guy Wires Restricted: No guy or other support wires shall be used in
connection with such antenna or its support structure except when used to
anchor the antenna or support structure to an existing building to which such
antenna or support structure is attached.
      7.   Screening: When any such antenna and antenna support structure is
ground mounted, appropriate landscaping or fencing shall be located and
maintained between such ground mounted antenna and antenna support structure
and each lot line of the property on which it is located so as to provide the
maximum, reasonably achievable screening as determined by the building
commissioner, of such antenna and antenna support structure from view from
adjoining properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more than ten feet (10') in
height. (Ord. 95-9, 4-17-1995)
10-3-13-3: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Certificate Of Compliance: In addition to any other provisions, no such
antenna or antenna support structure permitted under subsections
10-3-13-1B4,
10-3-13-2B4 and section
10-3-14 of this chapter shall hereafter be constructed, altered or enlarged in
the village unless a certificate of zoning compliance therefor has been issued
by the building commissioner. An application for such certificate shall be
accompanied by two (2) sets of plans, two (2) plats of survey, and electrical,
construction and design specifications drawn to scale and showing locations,
heights, structural design, and any other pertinent information or
certifications deemed necessary by the building commissioner to demonstrate
compliance with all provisions of the village's zoning regulations and building
code. When applicable, an application for a certificate of zoning compliance
shall include landscaping plans demonstrating that the screening requirements
of subsections
10-3-13-1B7 and
10-3-13-2B7 of this chapter will be satisfied within eight (8) months after the
date of the issuance of such certificate. A refundable cash deposit in an
amount estimated by the building commissioner as necessary to cover the cost of
implementing the proposed landscaping and screening must accompany each
application for a certificate of zoning compliance for the antenna and antenna
support structure. The deposit shall be returned when, but only when, a final
inspection by the building commissioner confirms that all required landscaping
and screening is in place.
   B.   Provisions Most Restrictive Apply: Unless specifically provided to the
contrary, when the regulations of section
10-3-13-1,
10-3-13-2, or
 10-3-14 of this chapter or this section are more restrictive than any other
regulations generally applicable within the zoning districts, the provision of
section
10-3-13-1,
10-3-13-2, or
10-3-14 of this chapter or this section shall apply.
   C.   Surface Area Determined: For purposes of sections
10-3-13-1,
10-3-13-2 and
10-3-14 of this chapter, the surface area of an antenna and its support
structure shall be determined by adding together the actual surface area of
each solid element or part of the antenna or its support structure, where
"solid" is defined to include all air spaces that are fully bounded by solid
elements.
   D.   Provisions Subject To This Chapter: Except as otherwise expressly
provided in sections
10-3-13-1,
10-3-13-2 and
10-3-14 of this chapter, all such antenna and antenna support structures shall
be subject to all the provisions of this chapter applicable to accessory uses
and structures.
   E.   Structures Exempt: The foregoing special regulations shall not apply to
antenna and antenna support structures owned or maintained by the village of
West Dundee. (Ord. 95-9, 4-17-1995)
10-3-14: AMATEUR RADIO FACILITIES WITH SURFACE AREA EXCEEDING TEN SQUARE FEET:
   A.   In any zoning district, any antenna and antenna support structure
having a combined surface area greater than ten (10) square feet or having any
single dimension exceeding twelve feet (12') that is capable of transmitting as
well as receiving signals and is licensed by the federal communications
commission as an amateur radio facility must satisfy each of the following
conditions:
      1.   Number Limited: No more than one such antenna support structure with
a surface area greater than ten (10) square feet or any single dimension
exceeding twelve feet (12') may be located on any zoning lot.
      2.   Height Limited: No such antenna support structure shall, if ground
mounted, exceed seventy five feet (75') in height of, if attached to a building
pursuant to subsection A3 of this section, the height herein specified.
      3.   Attachment To Buildings Limited: No such antenna or its support
structure shall be attached to a principal or accessory structure unless all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         a.   Height: The antenna and its support structure shall not extend
more than twenty feet (20') above the highest point of the building on which it
is mounted.
         b.   Mounting: The antenna and its support structure shall not be
attached to or mounted upon any building appurtenance, such as a chimney. The
antenna and its support structure shall not be mounted or attached to the front
of any principal building or to the side of any building facing a street,
including any portion of the building roof facing any street. The antenna and
its support structure shall be designed to withstand a wind force of eighty
(80) miles per hour on its own and without the support of guy wires.
         c.   Grounding: The antenna and its support structure shall be bonded
to a grounding rod.
         d.   Other Standards: The antenna support structure shall satisfy such
other design and construction standards as the building commissioner reasonably
determines are necessary to ensure safe construction and maintenance of the
antenna and its support structure.
      4.   Setback From Street: No such antenna or its support structure shall
be erected or maintained closer to any street than the wall of the principal
building to which it is accessory that is nearest to such street.
      5.   Setbacks From Adjacent Buildings: No such antenna or its support
structure shall be located in any required side yard or nearer than one-half
(1/2) the height of the antenna and support structure to any habitable building
on any adjacent property. (Ord. 95-9, 4-17-1995)
10-3-15: ADULT BUSINESS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: It is the intent of this section to protect and
preserve the health, safety, welfare and morals of the citizens of the village
by regulating adult business within the village.
   B.   General Standards:
      1.   Special Use Permit: A separate special use permit must be issued for
each "adult business" as defined in section
 10-2-1 of this title.
      2.   Location Restrictions: No adult business shall be operated within
one thousand feet (1,000') of a residential zoning district or within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the property boundaries of any school, daycare
center, cemetery, public park, public housing, nursing home, rest home,
sheltered care facility and place of religious worship. The distance limitation
shall be measured in a straight line from the lot lines of said adult business
and applicable residential zoning district, school, daycare center, cemetery,
public park, public housing, nursing home, rest home, sheltered care facility
and place of religious worship.
      3.   Number Allowed: Only one adult business shall be permitted per block
face.
      4.   Sign Requirements: The following sign requirements shall apply to
any adult business:
         a.   All signs shall be flat wall signs.
         b.   The amount of allowable sign area shall be one square foot of
sign area per foot of lot frontage on a street, or as permitted by the
ordinances of the village, whichever is more restrictive.
         c.   Window areas shall not be covered or made opaque in any way. No
sign shall be placed in any window. One 1-square foot sign may be placed on the
door to state hours of operation and admittance to adults only.
      5.   Advertising: No merchandise or pictures of the products or
entertainment on the premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area
where they can be viewed from the sidewalk in front of the building.
      6.   Alcoholic Liquor Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any adult
business to sell, distribute or permit beer or alcoholic beverages on the
premises. (Ord. 98-23, 9-14-1998)
10-3-16: SOLAR REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Regulations: Solar energy systems are permitted as an accessory
use to all structures within all residential zoning classifications subject to
the requirements as set forth below.
      1.   Setbacks/Distance To Roof Edges: No part of a solar energy system
may extend beyond the exterior perimeter of a principal or accessory structure.
Solar collectors shall maintain a minimum distance of three feet (3') from the
sides of the roof, three feet (3') from the ridge of the roof, and three feet
(3') from the eave/gutter line of the roof. See figure 10-3-16A.
      2.    Solar Collect or Arrangements/ Placement: Solar collectors shall
lie between visually dominant lines of the roof. Solar collectors shall create
arrays and be grouped in a consolidated, centered, and symmetrical manner to
the degree practical. See figure 10-3-16A.
Figure 10-3-16A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82bf72c11ded8ea8fc23d089b0f9ceda5d9441bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1996.png]
 
      3.   Equipment Location: Equipment (including but not limited to the
inverter) shall be located in the rear or side of the structure and near the
existing electric service.
      4.   Maximum Height: Solar collectors may be mounted on a principal and/
or accessory structure so long as the height shall neither exceed the maximum
height allowed in the zoning district nor the maximum height permitted for the
structure.
      5.   Solar Collector Positioning: On a pitched, roof solar collectors
shall be installed parallel to the roof plane and shall not extend more than
one foot (1') from the roof surface at any point. For a flat roof, solar
collectors may be oriented to achieve solar gain but shall not extend more than
two feet (2') in overall height from the roof surface, or where applicable,
extend beyond/above the parapet.
      6.   Screening And Visibility: To the degree practical, a solar energy
system should face or be oriented to the rear lot line or interior side lot
line(s) and street (unless required to achieve effectiveness) in order to
minimize visibility from the front of the house or a street and adjacent
properties.
   Where the effectiveness of a solar energy system requires that it be located
on a roof surface facing a street, the solar energy system shall not occupy
more than fifty percent (50%) of each roof plane directly facing the front lot
line. Coverage may be increased to one hundred percent (100%) of the street-
facing roof if the solar energy system is comprised of solar shingles.
      7.   Glare: A solar energy system shall have exterior surfaces that
possess a non-reflective finish, and the system shall be designed so that its
installation avoids or minimizes glare or reflection onto adjacent properties
and streets.
      8.   Appearance: A solar energy system shall be designed to blend into
the architecture of the building and have components that are color-coordinated
to harmonize with the roof, walls, and other dominant colors of the structure.
      9.   Trees: The location of a solar energy system may require extensive
pruning or removal of trees but only to the degree deemed necessary. If removal
of a tree is specified, information demonstrating need shall be provided.
   B.   Permit Requirements And Performance Standards:
      1.   Plan Review Required Documents:
         a.   The shortest distance between solar collectors and all edges of
the roof.
         b.   The distance between solar collectors and any other existing
rooftop features such as chimneys, spires, access points, vents, etc.
         c.   The height of solar collectors both from finished grade and,
where applicable, from the finished surface of the roof.
         d.   Information on the roof and its structure and the major
components of the solar energy system including but potentially not limited to
photovoltaic panels, mounting system, and inverter in order to perform
structural and electrical reviews.
         e.   The contact information for the installer of the proposed system.
         f.   Written approval of the proposed solar energy system from the
Homeowners Association, if applicable.
      2.   Decommissioning And Restoration:
         a.   The property owner where a solar energy system is located is
responsible for continuing maintenance and repair. The solar energy system must
be removed at the end of its useful life, when abandoned or non-operational, or
when in a state of disrepair.
         b.   The decommissioning of a solar energy system shall be accompanied
by the restoration of the property to the condition it was in prior to the
installation of the solar energy system.
         c.   The village shall have the right but not the obligation to file a
lien against the property where located for reimbursement of any and all
expenses incurred by the Village to pay for the costs of removal or disposal of
a solar energy system, roof or wall repair, legal fees and accrued interest.
   C.   Special Considerations; Historic District:
      1.   For West Dundee Property located within the Dundee Township National
Register Historic District, the location, design and installation of a solar
energy system shall be reviewed and considered by the Appearance Review
Commission (ARC) prior to consideration of a building permit.
      2.   Installation of a solar energy system shall not significantly alter
an original historic structure and no historic feature of the structure shall
be removed as part of the installation of a solar energy system.
      3.   Removal of a solar energy system shall not alter or damage an
original historic structure, and any historic feature of the structure affected
by the system's removal shall be repaired or restored to its condition prior to
the installation of the solar energy system.
   D.   Building Code Conformance: A solar energy system shall comply with all
applicable building codes, including, but not limited to, the International
Residential Code and the National Electric Code provided however the terms of
this chapter shall supersede any conflicting provisions. (Ord. 2019-21, 8-19-
2019)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Prohibited Uses
10-4-2: Special Uses
10-4-3: Dwelling Unit Grade Level
10-4-4: Home Occupations
10-4-1: PROHIBITED USES:
Animals; raising of poultry, pigeons, bees, livestock, and furbearing animals
except as regulated by the licensing provisions of title 6, chapter 3, "Animal
Control", of this Code.
Lease or rental of a room or rooms being a portion of an entire dwelling in a
Residential District unit or a portion of a single- family residence in a
Residential District.
Outdoor storage; open storage of building material and equipment except during
active construction for permissible uses.
Transient dwellings; trailer camping, tourist cabins and motor homes shall not
be utilized for dwelling purposes within any Residential District.
Vehicle repair; major automobile repair work on vehicles other than the
personal vehicles of the resident. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2010-30,
11-1-2010; Ord. 2018-33, 12-3-2018)
10-4-2: SPECIAL USES:
Community, civic or Municipal buildings.
Funeral homes.
Planned developments on a tract of land not less than two (2) acres.
Public libraries. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4-3: DWELLING UNIT GRADE LEVEL:
No new dwelling unit shall be established or maintained where the entire
outside grade level shall be more than four feet (4') above the floor level of
the dwelling unit (excluding basements, cellars, recreation rooms, laundry
rooms, utility and storage areas). (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4-4: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Incidental To Principal Use: Subject to the limitations of this
section, any home occupation that is customarily incidental to the principal
use of a building as a dwelling shall be permitted in any dwelling unit.
   B.   Use Limitations:
      1.   Employee Limitations:
         a.   The entrepreneur of every home occupation shall be domiciled in
the dwelling unit where such occupation is conducted.
         b.   Employees shall not be permitted other than persons domiciled in
the dwelling unit where such home occupation is conducted and no more than one
other employee, not domiciled in the dwelling.
      2.   Structural Limitations:
         a.   No alteration of any kind shall be made to the dwelling unit
where a home occupation is conducted that would change its residential
character as a dwelling unit, including the enlargement of public utility
services beyond that customarily required for residential use.
         b.   No separate entrance shall be provided in connection with the
conduct of any home occupation.
      3.   Operational Limitations:
         a.   Every home occupation shall be conducted wholly within a
principal dwelling unit or enclosed accessory use; provided, however, that this
subsection shall not apply to a daycare home operated as a home occupation.
         b.   The business conducted shall be incidental and secondary to the
use of such dwelling unit as a dwelling unit.
         c.   No more than a total of six hundred (600) square feet of floor
area (exclusive of garage floor area devoted to permissible parking of vehicles
used in connection with the home occupation) of any dwelling unit, shall be
specially designed, arranged or set apart for the conduct of a home occupation;
provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to a daycare home
operated as a home occupation.
         d.   No stock in trade shall be displayed on the premises of any home
occupation.
         e.   The attendance of up to four (4) persons at any one time may be
allowed for the purpose of receiving private instruction or training in any
subject or skill except singing, dance or musical instrument.
         f.   Individual instruction in singing, dance or musical instrument
shall be limited to no more than a single pupil at a time and shall only be
permitted in the single-family detached dwelling.
         g.   No mechanical, electrical or other equipment that produces noise,
electrical or magnetic interference, vibration, heat, glare, emissions, odor or
radiation outside the dwelling unit that is greater or more frequent than that
typical of equipment used in connection with residential occupancy shall be
used in connection with any home occupation.
         h.   No outdoor storage shall be allowed in connection with any home
occupation.
         i.   No refuse in excess of the amount allowable for regular
residential pick up shall be generated by any home occupation.
         j.   Vehicles used in connection with any home occupation shall be
subject to the requirements of chapter 9, "Off Street Parking And Loading", of
this title.
         k.   A "daycare" home, as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
         l.   No leasing or renting of a room within a dwelling unit within a
single-family residence in a Residential District for sleeping and living
purposes. (Ord. 2018-33, 12-3-2018)
      4.   Signage And Visibility:
         a.   Signage shall comply with title 9, chapter 4, "Sign Regulations",
of this Code.
         b.   Other than provided in subsection B4a of this section, no home
occupation shall be in any manner visible or apparent from any public or
private street.
      5.   Traffic Limitations: No home occupation shall generate more
vehicular or pedestrian traffic than is typical of residences in the area.
      6.   Nuisance Causing Activities: In addition to the foregoing specific
limitations, no home occupation shall cause or create any nuisance, or cause or
create any substantial or undue adverse impact on any adjacent property or the
character of the area, or threaten the public health, safety or general
welfare, or be noxious, offensive or hazardous.
   C.   Special Use Permit Required: Any resident who wishes to conduct a
business in their home but who does not meet the requirements of this section
may apply for a special use permit pursuant to chapter 12 of this title. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989)
ARTICLE A. RE-1 RESIDENTIAL-ESTATE DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Permitted Uses
10-4A-2: Special Uses
10-4A-3: Lot Area Requirements
10-4A-4: Additional Regulations
10-4A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses.
Cemeteries.
Churches.
Daycare homes for not more than eight (8) children (including occupant's
children) provided that the home has a state license and is registered with the
village.
Golf courses and country clubs.
Group homes, subject to the following:
   A.   The group home houses no more than eight (8) persons plus staff;
   B.   The group home is licensed or certified by the state of Illinois; and
   C.   There is a minimum distance of one thousand feet (1,000') maintained
between group homes.
Home occupations conducted in connection with residences by the occupants
thereof and in a manner incidental and not detrimental to residential property.
Parks and playgrounds.
Public and religious schools, but not private vocational, music or dancing
schools.
Single-family detached dwellings.
Vegetable gardening. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 97-24, 10-27-1997)
10-4A-2: SPECIAL USES:
Bed and Breakfast Establishments on properties that are three (3) acres in size
or more, provided that the operator is registered with the Village.
Short Term Rentals on properties that are three (3) acres in size or more,
provided that the operator is registered with the Village. (Ord. 2022-36, 11-7-
2022)
10-4A-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet.
      2.   Width: Minimum of one hundred fifty feet (150') at front building
line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard Or Setback: Not less than fifty feet (50').
      2.   Side Yard Or Setback: Not less than twenty feet (20'). A corner lot
side yard abutting a street not less than sixty feet (60').
      3.   Rear Yard Or Setback: Not less than seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Building Height: Not more than two (2) stories or forty feet (40'),
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4A-4: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dwelling Standards: Total living area not less than two thousand
(2,000) square feet. Private individual water wells and on site sewage disposal
systems are permitted provided that suitable soil and slope conditions for on
site systems are present and the systems are approved by the village.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall not be located closer
than ten feet (10') from a side or rear lot line. In addition, accessory
buildings shall not be closer than one hundred feet (100') from the front lot
line and in no case closer to said front lot line than the principal building
on the lot. For corner lots, accessory buildings shall not be located in the
side yard abutting the side street.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord.89-04, 4-3-1989)
ARTICLE B. RE-2 RESIDENTIAL-ESTATE DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Permitted Uses
10-4B-2: Lot Area Requirements
10-4B-3: Additional Regulations
10-4B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Same as permitted in the RE-1 district. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4B-2: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
      2.   Width: Minimum of one hundred feet (100') at front building line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard Or Setback: Not less than forty feet (40').
      2.   Side Yard Or Setback: A minimum total of thirty feet (30') for both
side yards with a minimum of ten feet (10') on one side. For a corner lot side
yard abutting a street, not less than forty feet (40').
      3.   Rear Yard Or Setback: Not less than fifty feet (50').
   C.   Building Height: Not more than two (2) stories or forty feet (40'),
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4B-3: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dwelling Standards: Total living area not less than one thousand eight
hundred (1,800) square feet. Private, individual water wells and on site sewage
disposal systems are permitted, provided that suitable soil and slope
conditions for on site systems are present and the systems are approved by the
village.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall not be located closer
than five feet (5') from a side or rear lot line. In addition, accessory
buildings shall not be located closer than seventy five feet (75') from the
front lot line and in no case closer to said front lot line than the principal
building on the lot. For corner lots, accessory buildings shall not be located
in the side yard abutting the side street.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
ARTICLE C. RE-3 RESIDENTIAL-ESTATE DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4C-1: Permitted Uses
10-4C-2: Lot Area Requirements
10-4C-3: Additional Regulations
10-4C-1: PERMITTED USES:
Same as permitted in the RE-1 district. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4C-2: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
      2.   Width: Minimum of one hundred feet (100') at front building line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard Or Setback: Not less than forty feet (40').
      2.   Side Yard Or Setback: A minimum total of thirty feet (30') for both
side yards with a minimum of ten feet (10') on one side. For corner lot side
yard abutting a street, not less than forty feet (40').
      3.   Rear Yard Or Setback: Not less than forty feet (40').
   C.   Building Height: Not more than two (2) stories or forty feet (40'),
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4C-3: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dwelling Standards: Total living area not less than one thousand eight
hundred (1,800) square feet. Municipal water and wastewater disposal services
required.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall not be located closer
than five feet (5') from a side or rear lot line. In addition, accessory
buildings shall not be located closer than seventy five feet (75') from the
front lot line and in no case closer to said front lot line than the principal
building on the lot. For corner lots, accessory buildings shall not be located
in the side yard abutting the side street.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
ARTICLE D. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4D-1: Permitted Uses
10-4D-2: Lot Area Requirements
10-4D-3: Additional Regulations
10-4D-1: PERMITTED USES:
Same as permitted in the RE-1 district. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4D-2: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      2.   Width: Minimum of eighty feet (80') at the front building line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard Or Setback: Not less than thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side Yard Or Setback: A minimum total of twenty feet (20') for both
side yards with a minimum of six feet (6') on one side. For a corner lot side
yard abutting a street, not less than thirty feet (30') and six feet (6') on
the opposite side yard.
      3.   Rear Yard: Not less than thirty five feet (35').
   C.   Building Height: Not more than two (2) stories or forty feet (40'),
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4D-3: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dwelling Standards: Total living area not less than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet. Municipal water and wastewater disposal services
are required.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall not be located closer
than three feet (3') from a side or rear lot line. In addition, accessory
buildings shall not be closer than fifty feet (50') from the front lot line,
and in no case closer to said front lot line than the principal building on the
lot. For corner lots, accessory buildings shall not be located in the side yard
abutting the side street.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: The maximum floor to area ratio (FAR) shall not
exceed thirty percent (30%) of the total lot area. This FAR requirement shall
apply only to lots where construction is voluntarily undertaken after June 26,
2001. It shall not apply to lots with existing structures as of June 26, 2001,
additions to those existing structures, and/or the replacement of those
structure(s) provided replacement is the result of destruction of existing
structure(s) by natural occurrences or acts of God (i.e., fire, flood, tornado,
etc.). (Ord. 01-25, 6-26-2001)
ARTICLE E. R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4E-1: Permitted Uses
10-4E-2: Lot Area Requirements
10-4E-3: Additional Regulations
10-4E-1: PERMITTED USES:
Same as permitted in the RE-1 district. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4E-2: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than eight thousand four hundred (8,400) square feet.
      2.   Width: Minimum of seventy feet (70') at the front building line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard Or Setback: Not less than thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side Yard Or Setback: A minimum total of fifteen feet (15') for both
side yards with a minimum of six feet (6') on one side. For corner lot side
yards abutting a street, not less than thirty feet (30') and six feet (6') on
the opposite side yard.
      3.   Rear Yard: Not less than thirty five feet (35').
   C.   Building Height: Not more than two (2) stories or forty feet (40'),
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4E-3: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dwelling Standards: Total living area not less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet. Municipal water and wastewater disposal services are
required.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Same as regulated in the R-1 district.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title.
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: Same as regulated in the R-1 single-family detached
dwelling district. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
ARTICLE F. R-3 SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4F-1: Permitted Uses
10-4F-2: Lot Area Requirements
10-4F-3: Additional Regulations
10-4F-1: PERMITTED USES:
Same as permitted in the RE-1 district. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4F-2: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet.
      2.   Width: Minimum of sixty feet (60') at the front building line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard Or Setback:
         a.   The front yard setback shall be established as the lessor of:
            (1)   Twenty five feet (25'); or
            (2)   The average of the existing front yard setbacks for the two
(2) immediately adjacent developed lots sharing the same frontage.
               (A)   For corner lots or lots adjacent to an undeveloped parcel,
the front yard setback shall not be less than the immediately adjacent
developed lot sharing the same frontage.
         b.   In no case shall the front yard setback be less than fifteen feet
(15').
      2.   Side Yards Or Setback: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the lot
width with a minimum of six feet (6') on one side. For corner lots abutting a
street, not less than twenty five feet (25') and six feet (6') on the opposite
side yard.
      3.   Rear Yard Or Setback: Not less than thirty feet (30').
   C.   Building Height: Not more than two (2) stories or forty feet (40'),
whichever is less.
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: Same as regulated in the R-1 single-family dwelling
district.
   E.   Front Elevation Ratio: The maximum front elevation ratio (FER) shall
not exceed thirty two percent (32%).
      1.   Increases to the FER shall be provided for certain architectural
features including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Detached garages located completely behind the principal
structure or side loading garages, plus seven percent (7%) FER.
         b.   Ceiling height of nine feet (9') or greater, plus five percent
(5%) FER.
         c.   First floor elevated three feet (3') to five feet (5') above
grade, plus three percent (3%) FER.
         d.   The village board may grant additional increases for other
features not listed herein.
      2.   The maximum FER with the applicable increases shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) for any property. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
      3.   This FER requirement shall apply only to lots where construction is
voluntarily undertaken after June 26, 2001. It shall not apply to lots with
existing structures as of June 26, 2001, additions to those existing
structures, and/or the replacement of those structure(s) provided replacement
is the result of destruction of existing structure(s) by natural occurrences or
acts of God (i.e., fire, flood, tornado, etc.). (Ord. 2001-20, 5-7-2001)
10-4F-3: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dwelling Standards: Total living area not less than eight hundred (800)
square feet. Municipal water and wastewater disposal services are required.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Same as regulated in the R-1 single- family zoning
district.
      1.   On lots larger than sixty feet (60') in width at the front lot line,
front loading attached or detached garages must be set back a minimum of
fifteen feet (15') from the front of the principal structure.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title. In addition, required parking
spaces shall not be located in required front or side yards, except driveways
perpendicular to the street. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   D.   Fences: Fences as regulated by the provisions of section
 9-1A-7 of this code are permitted obstructions within the required front yard.
(Ord. 2001-20, 5-7-2001)
ARTICLE G. R-4 LOW DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4G-1: Permitted Uses
10-4G-2: Lot Area Requirements
10-4G-3: Additional Regulations
10-4G-1: PERMITTED USES:
Two-, three-, four-, five-, and six-dwelling unit multi- family buildings.
Any other use permitted in the RE-1 district except for home occupations and
daycare homes. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4G-2: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet of lot area
per multi-family dwelling unit.
      2.   Width: Not less than thirty feet (30') in width for each dwelling
unit up to three (3) dwelling units. For four (4) or more dwelling units, not
less than one hundred feet (100').
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard Or Setback: Not less than thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side Yards Or Setback: A minimum of ten feet (10') on each side. For
corner side yards abutting a street, not less than thirty feet (30') and six
feet (6') on the opposite side yard.
      3.   Rear Yard Or Setback: Not less than fifty feet (50').
   C.   Building Height: Not more than forty feet (40') or three (3) stories
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4G-3: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dwelling Standards:
      1.   Living Area:
         a.   One bedroom or studio units shall have a minimum of five hundred
(500) square feet of living area.
         b.   Two (2) bedroom units shall have a minimum of six hundred (600)
square feet of living area.
         c.   Three (3) bedroom units shall have a minimum of seven hundred
(700) square feet of living area.
      2.   Water And Wastewater Services: Municipal water and wastewater
disposal services are required.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Same as regulated in the R-1 district.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title. In addition, required parking
spaces shall not be located in required front and side yards except in
driveways perpendicular to the street. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
ARTICLE H. R-5 MEDIUM DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4H-1: Permitted Uses
10-4H-2: Lot Area Requirements
10-4H-3: Additional Regulations
10-4H-1: PERMITTED USES:
Multi-family dwelling units not to exceed twenty four (24) units per building.
Any other use permitted in the RE-1 district except for home occupations and
daycare homes. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4H-2: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than four thousand three hundred (4,300) square feet
of lot area per dwelling unit.
      2.   Width: Not less than one hundred fifty feet (150') at the front
building line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard Or Setback: Not less than thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side Yards Or Setback: A minimum total of thirty feet (30') for both
side yards with a minimum of twelve feet (12') on one side. For a corner lot
side yard abutting a street, not less than thirty feet (30') and twelve feet
(12') on the opposite side yard. (Existing 10 percent of the frontage or 10
feet whichever is greater.)
      3.   Rear Yard: Not less than seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Building Height: Not more than forty feet (40') or three (3) stories
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-4H-3: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dwelling Standards: Same as regulated in the R-4 district.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Same as regulated in the R-1 district.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title. In addition, required parking
spaces shall not be located in required front or side yards, except driveways
perpendicular to the street. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 5
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Conduct Of Business
10-5-2: Temporary Uses And Structures
10-5-2-1: Purpose
10-5-2-2: Temporary Use Permits
10-5-2-3: Procedures
10-5-2-4: Permitted Uses And Structures
10-5-2-5: Standards
10-5-2-6: Use Matrix
10-5-1: CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Within Enclosed Buildings; Exceptions: All business, service, repair,
processing, storage or merchandising display shall be conducted wholly within
enclosed buildings, with the following exceptions:
      1.   In automotive service stations.
         a.   The sale of automotive fuels, lubricants and coolants.
         b.   The display of automotive tires within closable units especially
constructed for the storage and display and not exceeding five hundred (500)
cubic feet in total volume of all such units in any single station, provided
that, where such closable units are located within six feet (6') of side or
rear property lines, and where such units do not exceed seven feet (7') in
height, or four feet (4') in depth, and where they are not less than twenty
five feet (25') from any street, their volume shall not be so limited, provided
further, that all such tire display units shall be of the same color and shall
be maintained so as to remain free of rust, corrosion, decay and dirt.
         c.   The storage of not more than four (4) inoperable automobiles;
provided that storage must be effectively screened from view from streets and
surrounding properties. If such screening cannot be accomplished, the storage
of inoperable vehicles will not be permitted.
      2.   The display and sale of nursery stock, garden and farm equipment,
and outdoor furniture and recreation equipment.
      3.   Display for the purpose of sale or rental of new or used
automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, trailers and boats; all in operable
condition, except that utility hauling trailers stored for sale or rent shall
be screened from view from streets and surrounding properties.
      4.   Vending machines, in conjunction with another permitted use.
      5.   Outdoor recreational uses (including swimming pools, golf courses,
golf driving ranges and miniature golf), drive-in restaurants and parking lots.
      6.   The village board may grant permission, without public hearing for
the relaxation of regulations regarding outdoor display and sales for annual
promotional events not exceeding three (3) consecutive days in duration.
All merchandise displayed outdoors shall be displayed in a neat and orderly
manner. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   B.   Merchandise Sold: Goods sold and any goods produced on the premises
shall be sold at retail on the premises unless otherwise permitted herein for
specified uses. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 5-5-2014)
   C.   Nuisances Prohibited: Processes and equipment employed and goods
processed or sold shall be limited to those which are not objectionable by
reason of odor, dust, smoke, cinders, gas, noise, vibration, refuse matter or
water carried waste. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5-2: TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES:
10-5-2-1: PURPOSE:
Provisions of this section are based on the recognition that there are uses,
buildings and structures which because of their unique characteristic should
not be permitted in a particular zoning district on a permanent basis, but
which may be either necessary or desirable for a temporary period provided that
they are carefully regulated with respect to location and operation. Temporary
uses, buildings, and other structures permitted in this section shall be
established and maintained so as not to interfere with the use and enjoyment of
neighboring uses, buildings and other structures and to ensure public safety.
The following regulations govern the operation of certain transitory or
seasonal type uses related to temporary uses, buildings, and structures. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5-2-2: TEMPORARY USE PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: A temporary use permit shall be required prior to the
establishment of every temporary use, building or other structure. Any permit
issued and found to be in conflict with the provisions of this section shall be
null and void upon notice by the village of said conflicts to said permittee.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   B.   Fees: No temporary use permit shall be issued until all necessary fees
are paid according to the fee schedule. A temporary use permit fee is twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per request. (Ord. 96-11, 6-3-1996)
   C.   Conditions Of Approval: In addition to specific regulation standards
and time limitations set forth in this section, temporary uses and structures
shall be subject to such conditions and restrictions on their location and
operation as deemed necessary from time to time by the village board. (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989)
10-5-2-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Petition For Temporary Use: A petition for temporary use may be made by
the owner of the affected property, his duly authorized agent or a Dundee
township not for profit organization with the written acknowledgment by the
property owner.
   B.   Filing: All temporary use applications shall be filed with the building
commissioner. Petitions for temporary use shall include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      1.   Information necessary to accurately locate and portray the property
such as a survey or legal description of the property to be used, rented, or
leased for the temporary use.
      2.   A written description of the temporary use and a drawing of the
proposed temporary structure.
      3.   Sufficient information to determine the yard requirements, sanitary
facilities, and available parking spaces to adequately service the proposed
temporary use or structure.
      4.   Specifications as to when the temporary use is to occur, including
the hours of operation, if applicable.
      5.   Other information as may be deemed necessary to complete the
evaluation of the proposed temporary use or structure. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5-2-4: PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES:
Temporary uses and structures which may be allowed pursuant to this section
shall include, but are not limited to, the following;
   A.   Carnivals, Zoos, Animal Exhibits, Petting Zoos And Animal Rides: A
temporary use permit for a carnival, zoo, animal exhibit, petting zoo or animal
rides may be granted to Dundee township not for profit organizations. Such
activities may be allowed in all business zoning districts. Each such permit
shall be valid for a period not to exceed three (3) days. A limit of two (2)
permits per calendar year per organization will only be allowed provided there
is a thirty (30) day separation between the first and second permit. Any
temporary structure and/or tents erected to house all or part of the carnival,
zoo, animal exhibit, petting zoo or animal rides shall be removed within three
(3) days of the completion of the carnival, zoo, animal exhibit, petting zoo or
animal rides.
   B.   Christmas Tree Sales: A temporary use permit shall be required to
display in the open lot sales of Christmas trees, and such permits may only be
granted to Dundee township not for profit organizations. However, a temporary
use permit shall not be required for the display and sales of Christmas trees
within permanent outdoor sales areas which are incidental and accessory to an
approved permitted use. Display and open lot sales of Christmas trees may be
allowed only in business zoning districts or on property owned by a not for
profit organization. Each such permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed
forty five (45) days. All unsold trees or temporary structures utilized in
conjunction with the sale of the Christmas trees must be removed by January 1
of each calendar year.
   C.   Contractors Offices, Equipment Sheds And Trailers: A temporary use
permit shall be required for a contractor's office, equipment shed and trailer,
incidental and necessary to a specific construction project located on that
property in the village. Such activities and temporary uses may be allowed in
all zoning districts. Each permit shall be valid for only the duration of the
construction project. The office, shed, trailer, and/or storage area shall be
removed within fifteen (15) days of the completion of the project for which it
was installed.
   D.   Temporary Real Estate Offices:
      1.   Model Units: A temporary use permit shall be required for a
temporary real estate office located in model units in any new construction
project in the village for the sale of units within that subdivision or
development project only. Such activities may be allowed in all zoning
districts. Each such permit shall be valid only until the sale of the last unit
in the project.
      2.   Trailers: A temporary use permit shall be required for temporary
real estate offices located in trailers in any new construction project in the
village for the sale of units within that project only. Such activities may be
allowed in all zoning districts. Each such permits shall be valid for a period
of six (6) months or until the first model unit of the project is completed,
whichever occurs first.
   E.   Temporary Outdoor Sales:
      1.   Seasonal Or Gardening Products: A temporary use permit shall be
required for all temporary outdoor sales of seasonal or gardening products.
Outdoor sales shall be conducted only in accordance with all applicable village
codes and regulations. Each such permit shall be valid for a period of not more
than forty five (45) days and may be renewed two (2) times during any calendar
year. A permit may be renewed to permit only two (2) consecutive forty five
(45) day periods which would allow a single sale period to extend no more than
ninety (90) consecutive days. When two (2) consecutive use permits are issued
no additional permit will be approved within thirty (30) days after the
expiration date of the renewed permit. Temporary use permits issued for periods
less than forty five (45) days will be counted as one 45-day permit. When
separate permits are desired, each forty five (45) day permit will not be
renewed within thirty (30) days after the expiration date of the preceding
permit. Temporary outdoor sales of seasonal or gardening products shall be
limited to the display and sale of flowers, vegetables, bagged garden products,
other seasonal type materials and landscape border products. Landscape
materials including statuary, fencing, lumber and other similar products shall
not be allowed.
      2.   Arts And Crafts Shows: A temporary use permit shall be required for
all temporary outdoor arts and crafts shows. Outdoor arts and crafts shows
shall be conducted only in accordance with all applicable village codes and
regulations. The permit shall be accompanied by information providing evidence
that there is ample parking for the temporary use. Each such permit shall be
valid for a period of not more than three (3) calendar days and not renewed
more than once during any calendar year.
      3.   Other Sales: A temporary use permit shall be required for all other
temporary outdoor sales. Outdoor sales shall be conducted only in accordance
with all applicable village codes and regulations. Each such permit shall be
valid for a period of not more than three (3) days and may not be renewed more
than once during any calendar year.
   F.   Tent Promotions And Meetings:
      1.   Noncommercially Sponsored Events: A temporary use permit shall be
required for a tent or other temporary structure use to house a noncommercially
sponsored event. Such activities may be allowed in all zoning districts. Each
such permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed seven (7) days and may
not be renewed during any calendar year. Any tent or other temporary structure
erected to house all or part of the events shall be removed within three (3)
days of the completion of the function.
      2.   Commercially Sponsored Events: A temporary use permit shall be
required for a tent or other temporary structure used to house a commercially
sponsored event. Such activities may be allowed in all business zoning
districts. Each such permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed seven (7)
days and may not be renewed during a calendar year. Should liquor be offered
for sale or distribution, village board approval as well as the local liquor
control commission is required. Any tent or other temporary structure erected
to house all or part of the event shall be removed within three (3) days of
completion of the function.
   G.   Similar And Compatible Uses: Other uses which are similar and
compatible to those allowed as temporary uses in this section. Determination of
what constitutes similar and compatible uses shall be made by the building
commissioner in conjunction with the village manager with notification provided
to the village board. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   H.   Special Use Request: Any uses, buildings or structures which are of a
temporary nature which do not fall under the above mentioned regulations would
be permitted to be considered for approval via the special use process which
includes formal review and recommendation by the planning and zoning commission
and approval by the village board. The filing fee for a special use request
would be applicable. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
10-5-2-5: STANDARDS:
A temporary use permit shall be issued only when the proposed temporary use
structure complies with all the following:
   A.   Compatible With Existing Development: The nature and intensity, of the
temporary use and the size and placement of any temporary structure is so
planned that the temporary use or structure will be compatible with the
existing development.
   B.   Not Typically Located Within A Permanent Building Or Structure: The
temporary use is of such a nature that it is not typically located within a
permanent building or structure nor will it cause prolonged undue economic
competition with the adjoining permanent permitted or special use.
   C.   Parcels Of Sufficient Size: The size of the parcel is sufficient size
to adequately accommodate the temporary use or structure.
   D.   Traffic: The location of the temporary use or structure is such that
adverse effects on surrounding properties will be minimal, particularly
regarding the traffic generated by the temporary use or structure.
   E.   Parking And Access: Off street parking areas are of adequate size for
the particular temporary use or structure and properly located, and the
entrance and exit drives are laid out so as to prevent traffic hazards and
nuisances.
   F.   Effect On Surrounding Area: In all respects, the temporary use or
structure is not significantly or materially detrimental to the health, safety
and welfare of the public or injurious to other properties or improvements in
the surrounding area.
   G.   Display Area: All temporary uses, structures, and outdoor sales areas
must be maintained and displayed in a neat, orderly and safe manner. Failure to
do so may result in revocation of the temporary permit issuance. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
10-5-2-6: USE MATRIX:
Uses B-1 B-2 B-3
Permitted: "P" Special Use: "S" Prohibited: "-"
Uses                                                                               B- B- B-
                                                                                   1  2  3
Permitted: "P" Special Use: "S" Prohibited: "-"
Accessory uses to permitted uses.                                                  P  P  P
Animal care facilities, including veterinarian offices, animal hospitals, and      S  S  P
kennels.
Animal/pet grooming services.                                                      P  P  P
Antique and consignment stores.                                                    P  P  P
Art galleries, museums and other semipublic, indoor exhibition areas.              P  P  P
Automotive sales, including dealership, outdoor sales lots, parts and accessory    -  S  S
stores, and retail gasoline sales.
Automotive services, including washing facilities, mechanical repair, and body and -  -  S
paint shops.
Banquet halls/event facilities.                                                    S  S  S
Behavioral/therapeutic day schools.                                                -  S  S
Business and professional offices, including doctor, dentist, outpatient medical
services, outpatient therapy and counseling services, attorney, insurance,         P  P  P
financial establishments, and real estate.
Cannabis dispensary facility subject to the following:
   1.   Operations may only be permitted between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.;
   2.   No drive-through windows permitted;
   3.   Deliveries permitted only at the rear entrance of the facility which -us-  S
not be in any public area;
   4.   To be located no less than two hundred-fifty feet (250') from the property
lines of schools, daycares and residential zoning districts;
   5.   No "on premise" consumption of cannabis permitted; and
   6.   Only one (1) cannabis dispensary facility shall be permitted.
Colleges and universities.                                                         -  S  S
Commercial/recreational vehicles and trailers - rental                             -  S  S
Commercial services including advertising, and media offices, interior decorating,
office supplies, photography studios, printing, and appliance and electronics      P  P  P
repair.
Commissaries/commercial kitchens.                                                  -  S  S
Daycare centers.                                                                   S  P  P
Donation-based used merchandise stores; shall not be within seven hundred fifty    -  -  S
feet (750') of another similar user.
Educational services including trade schools, dancing, music and singing schools.  S  P  P
Firearm and gun stores.                                                            S  S  S
Game rooms and amusement centers.                                                  S  S  S
Group and private fitness instruction.                                             S  S  S
Healthcare facilities, including clinics.                                          -  P  P
Hospitals.                                                                         -  S  S
Hotels, motels and resorts.                                                        S  S  P
Indoor entertainment and recreation facilities including live music venue, move/   S  S  S
live theater, bowling alley, pool hall, and roller and ice skating rinks.
Massage therapy but only as ancillary or supplementary to a full-service spa.      P  P  P
Massage therapy establishments as a standalone clinic.                             S  S  S
Medical laboratories.                                                              -  S  S
Messenger services.                                                                S  S  S
Motor vehicle rental, including cars, motorcycles, motor scooters and mopeds.      -  S  S
Outdoor entertainment and recreation facilities, including miniature golf, driving -  S  S
ranges, and drive-in theaters.
Outdoor sales lots other than automobiles.                                         S  S  S
Outdoor stadiums.                                                                  -  S  S
Pawn stores.                                                                       -  -  S
Permanent make-up services as a standalone operation or the primary use within a   S  S  S
hairstyling or beauty salon.
Permanent make-up services but only as ancillary or supplementary to a full-       P  P  P
service hairstyling or beauty salon.
Personal services including hairstyling, clothes cleaning, and shoe repair.        P  P  P
Planned unit developments.                                                         S  S  S
Public utility and public service uses, including fire stations, police stations,
electric substations, telecommunications, and transit and transportation           S  S  S
facilities.
Repair and improvement services, including carpentry, plastering, painting,        -  S  P
plumbing, sewer, energy, heating, cooling, and electrical services.
Residential dwelling units above first floor only.                                 P  S  S
Restaurants.                                                                       P  P  P
Restaurants where alcoholic liquor is served in an outdoor area in conjunction     S  S  S
with food service.
Restaurants where entertainment is permitted subject to the following:
   1.   Entertainment is ancillary or supplementary to a restaurant and is limited
to the hours of food and liquor service;
   2.   Entertainment is limited to a maximum of three (3) musicians (includiPg P  P
singers) playing acoustic, unamplified or limited-amplified instruments; and
   3.   Entertainment is provided only in the room(s) where food and liquor
service is provided and maintained.
Restaurants where entertainment is permitted but does not meet at least one of the S  S  S
above criteria.
Retail sale of construction materials, but not including warehouse sales outlets.  -  P  P
Retail sales of household goods, garden supplies, sporting goods and personal
products, including food, drugs, clothing, furniture, appliances, hardware, gifts  P  P  P
and specialty items.
Senior citizen housing and retirement homes.                                       S  S  S
Short term rentals.                                                                P  -  -
Specimen collection facilities.
   1.   Only one (1) specimen collection facility shall be permitted for each-  S  S
eligible business zoning district.
 
(Ord. 2021-21, 7-12-2021; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 3-7-2022; Ord. 2022-06, 3-7-2022;
Ord. 2023-27, 10-2-2023; Ord. 2025-19, 4-7-2025)
ARTICLE A. R-B RESIDENTIAL-BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Permitted Uses
10-5A-2: Special Uses
10-5A-3: Lot Area Requirements
10-5A-4: Additional Regulations
10-5A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Apartments, above ground floor only.
Bed and breakfast establishment.
Retail goods establishment.
Accessory uses to the above permitted uses.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014; Ord. 18-17, 9-10-2018;
Ord. 2024-04, 2-19-2024)
10-5A-2: SPECIAL USES:
Apartments, ground floor.
Retail service establishment.
Short-term rentals.
Single room occupancy units.
Any other uses reocmmended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approved
by the Village Board. (Ord. 2024-04, 2-19-2024)
10-5A-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A. Lot Specifications:
      1. Area: Nine-thousand (9,000) minimum total square feet.
      2. Width: Sixty feet (60') minimum width at front setback line.
   B. Yards:
      1. Front yard: Thirty feet (30') minimum.
      2. Side yard: Six feet (6') minimum, thirty feet (30') minimum on corner
lot.
      3. Rear yard: Twenty five feet (25') minimum for main buildings, three
feet (3') minimum for accessory buildings. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord.
2024-04, 2-19-2024)
10-5A-4: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Dwelling Standards:
      1.   For apartments and short-term rentals, as governed in the
appropriate sections under zoning districts - residential.
      2.   For single-room occupancy units, not less than one hundred (100)
square feet of floor area.
      3.   No new buildings shall be erected nor shall any existing buildings
be structurally altered or extended, nor shall any additional parking spaces be
generated without review of plans by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
their written recommendation for denial or approval. If denial is recommended,
the Village Board may veto such decision by a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote.
   B.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with application
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title.
   C.   Signs: In accordance with application regulations set forth in
title 9, chapter 4, "Sign Regulations", of this Code. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989;
amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014; Ord. 2024-04, 2-19-2024)
ARTICLE B. B-1 DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: General Purpose
10-5B-2: Uses
10-5B-3: Lot Area Requirements
10-5B-4: Additional Regulations
10-5B-1: GENERAL PURPOSE:
The zoning regulations for this zoning district shall recognize the historic
significance, spatial layout, yard and parking limitations of the original
Downtown Business District. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5B-2: USES:
See Appendix A, Use Matrix, for a detailed listing of permitted and special
uses allowed in the B-1 District. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 5-
5-2014; Ord. 18-17, 9-10-2018; Ord. 2018-21, 10-8-2018; Ord. 2021-21, 7-12-
2021)
10-5B-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than two thousand (2,000) square feet; and
      2.   Width: Not less than twenty feet (20') at the front building line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard or setback: None required unless adjacent property has a
front yard established, in which case the front yard setback shall be the
average of the front yard setbacks of the buildings on the adjacent lots. A
side yard adjoining a street shall be considered as a front yard;
      2.   Side yard or setback: None required unless adjacent property has a
side yard established, in which case the side yard setback shall be not less
than the average of the side yard setbacks of the buildings on the adjacent
lots; and
      3.   Rear yard or setback: Not less than twenty feet (20').
   C.   Building Standards:
      1.   Floor area ratio: Not to exceed 3.1 (the total floor area shall not
be more than 3 times the total square foot area of the lot).
   D.   Building Height: Not more than forty feet (40') or three (3) stories,
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5B-4: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Business Operation Standards: See title 3, chapter 1 of this Code.
(Ord. 98-18, 8-3-1998)
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings used in conjunction with the
principal use on a lot, shall have a front yard of not less than fifty feet
(50'), and a side and rear yard of not less than three feet (3') from the
established lot lines. In no event shall an accessory building have a front
yard of less than the front yard of the principal building located on said lot.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In accordance with the applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9, "Off Street Parking And Loading", of this
title. (Ord. 98-06, 2-2-1998)
   D.   Signs: Signs shall be in accordance with the applicable regulations set
forth in title 9, chapter 4, "Sign Regulations", of this Code. (Ord. 89-04, 4-
3-1989)
ARTICLE C. B-2 REGIONAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5C-1: General Purpose
10-5C-2: Uses
10-5C-3: Lot Area Requirements
10-5C-4: Additional Regulations
10-5C-1: GENERAL PURPOSE:
The zoning regulations for this district shall recognize the need to provide a
large, modern, unified zoning district to serve great numbers of regional and
local customers. The spatial layout, yard and parking requirements shall
reflect existing development areas, and a regional viewpoint. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
10-5C-2: USES:
See Appendix A, Use Matrix, for a detailed listing of permitted and special
uses allowed in the B-2 District. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2021-21, 7-
12-2021)
10-5C-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet; and
      2.   Width: Not less than one hundred fifty feet (150') at the front
building line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard Or Setback: Not less than twenty feet (20') plus one
hundred percent (100%) of the building height, with a minimum of thirty five
feet (35') from a public right of way;
      2.   Side Yard Or Setback: Not less than ten feet (10') per side yard,
and not less than a cumulative of thirty feet (30') for two (2) side yards. A
side yard adjoining a street shall be considered as a front yard; and
      3.   Rear Yard Or Setback: Not less than twenty feet (20').
   C.   Building Standards:
      1.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed 1.3 to one ratio of floor area to
lot size (the total floor area shall be not more than 1.3 times the total
square foot area of the lot).
   D.   Building Height: Not more than forty feet (40') or three (3) stories,
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5C-4: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Business Operation Standards: See title 3, chapter 1 of this code.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings used in conjunction with the
principal use on a lot, shall have a front yard of not less than fifty feet
(50'), and a side and rear yard of not less than three feet (3') from the
established lot lines. In no event shall an accessory building have a front
yard of less than the front yard of the principal building located on said lot.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In addition to the applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title, the following parking
regulations shall apply in the B-2 regional business district.
      1.   One parking space per two hundred (200) square feet of floor area is
required; and
      2.   "Floor area", as defined under the B-1 district.
   D.   Signs: Signs shall be required in accordance with the applicable
regulations set forth in title 9, chapter 4, "Sign Regulations", of this code.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
ARTICLE D. B-3 BUSINESS-SERVICE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5D-1: General Purpose
10-5D-2: Uses
10-5D-3: Lot Area Requirements
10-5D-4: Additional Regulations
10-5D-1: GENERAL PURPOSE:
The zoning regulations for this zoning district shall recognize the need to
provide business services to transient and local customers. The development
regulations recognize the spatial layout, yard and parking requirements of such
districts, and the need to provide vehicular access without increasing traffic
congestion on arterial and residential streets. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5D-2: USES:
See Appendix A, Use Matrix, for a detailed listing of permitted and special
uses allowed in the B-2 District. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 5-
5-2014; Ord. 2021-21, 7-12-2021)
10-5D-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications: All newly platted lots shall have the following
specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet; and
      2.   Width: Not less than one hundred feet (100') at the front building
line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard or setback: Not less than thirty feet (30'). A side yard
adjoining a street shall be considered as a front yard;
      2.   Side yard or setback: Not less than ten feet (10') per side, and not
less than a cumulative of twenty five feet (25') for two (2) side yards; and
      3.   Rear yard or setback: Not less than twenty feet (20').
   C.   Building Standards:
      1.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed 1.3 to one ratio of floor area to
lot size (the total floor area shall be not more than 1.3 times the total
square foot area of the lot).
   D.   Building Height: Not more than forty feet (40') or three (3) stories,
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5D-4: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Business Operation Standards: See title 3, chapter 1 of this code.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings, used in conjunction with the
principal use on a lot, shall have a front yard of not less than fifty feet
(50'), and a side and rear yard of not less than three feet (3') from the
established lot lines. In no event shall an accessory building have a front
yard of less than the front yard of the principal building located on said lot.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In addition to the applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title, the following parking
regulations shall apply in the B-3 business-service district. Parking lot and
driveway setbacks shall be as follows:
      1.   Front yard setback: Ten feet (10'); and
      2.   Side and rear yard setback: Five feet (5').
   D.   Signs: Signs shall be required in accordance with the applicable
regulations set forth in title 9, chapter 4, "Sign Regulations", of this code.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
ARTICLE E. O OFFICE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5E-1: General Purpose
10-5E-2: Permitted Uses
10-5E-3: Special Uses
10-5E-4: Lot Area Requirements
10-5E-5: Additional Regulations
10-5E-1: GENERAL PURPOSE:
   A.   To permit the development of small scale office facilities offering
personal services of a professional nature which typically generate less
vehicular traffic.
   B.   To serve as a buffer between residential uses and other commercial or
industrial uses. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5E-2: PERMITTED USES:
Business and professional offices including, but not limited to, accountants,
architects, attorneys, engineers and insurance offices.
Executive or administrative offices of manufacturing, commercial, service and
industrial companies and corporations where only executive, administrative and
clerical functions are performed.
Offices for educational, fraternal, professional and religious organizations.
Residential dwelling units above first floor only.
Accessory uses to the above permitted uses. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord.
2018-35, 11-12-2018)
10-5E-3: SPECIAL USES:
Banks and savings and loans.
Governmental agencies.
Medical and dental offices and clinics, excluding animal clinics and hospitals.
Miscellaneous personal services.
Real estate offices.
Research and development offices and laboratories. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd.
Ord. 2019-16, 8-5-2019)
10-5E-4: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Not less than thirty feet (30') in depth. In those
instances where the first floor area of new construction exceeds four thousand
(4,000) square feet, the front yard setback shall be not less than seventy five
feet (75') in depth.
      2.   Side Yard: Not less than ten feet (10') each side. On a corner lot
not less than thirty feet (30') for front yard and not less than thirty feet
(30') for side yard that abuts street. In those instances where the first floor
area of new construction shall exceed four thousand (4,000) square feet, the
side lot setback shall be thirty feet (30') and a double fronting corner lot
shall have a seventy five foot (75') setback requirement on both streets.
      3.   Rear Yard: Not less than twenty feet (20') in depth.
      4.   Green Space: The first ten feet (10') of the front yard setback
shall remain as green space. "Green space" shall be defined as that area
improved with existing or installed natural plantings and vegetation. Any
structures will require a variance request under the appropriate section of
this title excepting fences as otherwise permitted.
      5.   Lots With Existing Structures: Lots, with existing structures, to be
rezoned O Office District, yard requirements shall be that which they are
currently zoned.
   B.   Lot Sizes:
      1.   Not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
         a.   One hundred feet (100') wide by two hundred feet (200') deep.
      2.   Lots, with existing structures, to be rezoned O office district, lot
size requirements shall be that which they are currently zoned.
   C.   Building Standards:
      1.   Height: Not more than forty feet (40') or two (2) stories, whichever
is less.
      2.   Floor/Lot Area Ratio: Not to exceed 1.0.
      3.   Usable Floor Area: There shall be at least six hundred (600) square
feet of usable floor area per business.
      4.   Lots With Existing Structures: Lots, with existing structures, to be
rezoned O office district, building standard requirements shall be that which
they are currently zoned. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5E-5: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Off Street Parking: Parking spaces shall be in accordance with
provisions set forth in chapter 9 of this title; provided, however that in
those instances of new construction where the first floor of any structure
shall exceed four thousand (4,000) square feet in area and shall have a
required setback of seventy five feet (75') or more, that parking shall be
permitted in said front yard from a thirty foot (30') setback line to the
actual setback of structure.
   B.   Signs: Signs shall be in accordance with provisions set forth in title
9, chapter 4, "Sign Regulations", of this code, except that no sign shall
exceed forty feet (40') in height.
   C.   Green Spaces:
      1.   Twenty percent (20%) of the lot size shall be preserved as a "green
space" as defined in subsection
10-5E-4A4 of this article. No structures or improvements shall be built on the
designated green area.
      2.   When an O district lot abuts a lot zoned for single-family
residential use, the following standard shall apply:
After subtracting the area of the lot occupied by buildings and improvements,
excluding parking lots, fifty percent (50%) of the remaining lot shall be
preserved as a green space. No improvements shall be built on the designated
green area. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
ARTICLE F. ORD OFFICE, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5F-1: General Purpose
10-5F-2: Permitted Uses
10-5F-3: Special Uses
10-5F-4: Lot Area Requirements
10-5F-5: Additional Regulations
10-5F-6: Performance Standards
10-5F-1: GENERAL PURPOSE:
The zoning regulations for this district shall recognize the need to provide a
spacious, campus/park like environment attractive for executive corporate
headquarters, innovative and applied research and development facilities with
activities in life and physical sciences. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5F-2: PERMITTED USES:
Administrative or executive offices serving as corporate or regional
headquarters.
Medical laboratory.
Personnel training center.
Research and development laboratories in all life and physical sciences.
Warehouse storage, and distribution facilities provided that the corporate or
regional office headquarters are adjacent.
Any other office use that does not depend on local walk in clientele. (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989)
10-5F-3: SPECIAL USES:
Agricultural research center.
Planned developments.
Religious seminaries and retreats. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5F-4: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than five (5) acres.
      2.   Width: Not less than three hundred feet (300') at the front building
line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard Or Setback: Not less than one hundred feet (100').
      2.   Side Yard Or Setback: Not less than fifty feet (50') on each side.
For corner lot side yards abutting a street, not less than one hundred feet
(100').
      3.   Rear Yard Or Setback: Not less than one hundred feet (100').
   C.   Building Standards:
      1.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed 1.0 to one ratio of floor area to
lot size.
      2.   Minimum Floor Area: Not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet
per floor.
   D.   Building Heights: Not more than fifty feet (50') or four (4) stories,
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5F-5: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Business Operation Standards: No office shall be open to the public
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.,
seven (7) days a week.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall not be located closer
than twenty feet (20') from a side or rear lot line. In addition, accessory
buildings shall not be closer than one hundred fifty feet (150') from the front
lot line and in no case closer to said front lot line than the principal
building on the lot. For corner lots, accessory buildings shall not be located
in the side yard abutting the side street.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In addition to the applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title, the following parking
regulations shall apply in the ORD district.
      1.   Front Yard Or Setback: No parking space, loading dock or interior
driveway shall be located in the required front yard setback.
      2.   Side, Rear Yard Or Setback: No parking space or interior driveway
shall be located within forty feet (40') of a side or rear property line.
   D.   Signs: In accordance with applicable regulations set forth in title 9,
chapter 4, "Sign Regulations", of this code. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-5F-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Any use permitted in the ORD office, research and development districts shall
comply with all of the provisions contained in the following subsections:
   A.   General Regulations:
      1.   No retail store, retail service establishment, or enterprise which
provides for personal use shall be located within this district, provided,
however, that test items produced on the premises may be offered for sale and
removal from the premises.
      2.   No residence or living quarters shall be permitted on the premises
other than that of a watchman or caretaker employed on the premises, and
temporary lodging incidental to personnel training.
      3.   All principal operations and activities shall be conducted wholly
inside a building or buildings. Tanks or drums of fuel directly connected with
heating devices or equipment located within principal buildings are excluded
from this provision. All private roads and driveways shall be treated, if
necessary, for the prevention of dust.
      4.   All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials and products
shall be enclosed by a fence or wall adequate to conceal such facilities from
adjacent property and shall not be located within a required front, side or
rear yard.
      5.   No materials or wastes shall be deposited on a zoning lot in such
form or manner that they may be transferred off the zoning lot by natural
causes or forces.
      6.   All materials or wastes which might cause fumes or dust or
constitute a fire hazard or which may be edible by or otherwise be attractive
to rodents or insects shall be stored outdoors only in closed containers.
   B.   Emissions: No use permitted in this district shall emit odors, gas,
dust, smoke, radiation, lighting effects or noise, to an extent greater than
the following maximum allowable levels:
      1.   Permitted Noise Levels: At no point on or beyond the boundary line
of any zoning lot in the ORD office, research and development district, shall
the sound pressure level resulting from any use or activity, either open or
enclosed (except noises resulting from the construction and maintenance of
buildings and facilities, including site preparation, and the noises of safety
signals, warning devices, and railroads) exceed the maximum decibel levels for
the designated octave band as set forth in the following tables:
Octave Bank Frequency In Cycles Per Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure Level In
Second                              Decibels
Octave Bank Frequency In Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Pressure
                                           Level In Decibels
0 -     74                                 76  
150 -   299                                63  
300 -   599                                59  
600 -   1,199                              50  
1,200 - 2,399                              45  
2,400 - 4,799                              38  
4,800 and over                             36  
 
         a.   Method Of Measurement: Sound levels shall be measured with a
sound level meter and associated octave band filter and impact noise filter
manufactured according to standards prescribed by the American Standards
Association. Measurements shall be made using the flat network and "slow" meter
response of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to
the performance standards herein prescribed provided that such noises are
capable of being accurately measured with such equipment. Noises capable of
being so measured, for the purposes of this article, shall be those noises
which cause rapid fluctuations of the needle of the sound level meter with a
variation of no more than plus or minus two (±2) decibels. Noises incapable of
being so measured but objectionable because of intermittence, beat, frequency,
or shrillness, shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent
uses.
      2.   Vibration: Steady state vibrations are vibrations which, for the
purpose of this article, are continuous, or vibrations in discrete pulses more
frequent than one hundred (100) per minute. Discrete pulses which do not exceed
one hundred (100) impulses per minute shall not cause displacement in excess of
twice the values established in subsection B2a, "Permitted Vibration
Displacements", of this section. "Impact vibrations" shall mean vibrations
occurring in discrete pulses separated by an interval of at least one minute
and numbering no more than eight (8) per twenty four (24) hour period.
         a.   Permitted Vibration Displacements: At no point on or beyond the
boundary of any lot shall the ground transmitted steady state or impact
vibration caused by any use of activity (except those not directly under the
control of the property user) exceed the limits as established in the following
tables for any ORD office, research and development zoning district boundary,
which is adjacent to a residential zone:
STEADY STATE VIBRATIONS
 
Frequency In Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Vibration Displacement In
                               Inches
   Less than 10             0.0008
   10 through 19            0.0005
   20 through 29            0.0003
   30 through 39            0.0002
   40 through 49            0.0001
   50 and over              0.0001
 
IMPACT VIBRATIONS
 
Frequency In Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Vibration Displacement In
                               Inches
   Less than 10             0.0016
   10 through 19            0.0016
   20 through 29            0.0006
   30 through 39            0.0004
   40 through 49            0.0002
   50 and over              0.0002
 
         b.   Method Of Measurement: For the purpose of measuring vibrations, a
three (3) component measuring system shall be used.
      3.   Permitted Smoke And Particulate Matter: The emission, from all
sources within any zoning lot, of particulate matter containing more than five
percent (5%) by weight of particles having a particle diameter larger than
forty four (44) microns is prohibited. Dust and other types of air pollution
borne by the wind from such sources as storage areas, yards, and roads within
the boundaries of any zoning lot shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate
landscaping, paving, oiling, or other acceptable means. Emission of particulate
matter from such sources in excess of the weight limitations specified herein
is prohibited. The emission of smoke or particulate matter of a density equal
to, or greater than, no. 2 on the Ringelmann chart is prohibited at all times,
except as follows:
         a.   Smoke Emission: The emission of more than twelve (12) smoke units
per stack in any one hour period is prohibited; however, once during any six
(6) hour period each stack shall be permitted up to twelve (12) additional
units in a fifteen (15) minute period for soot blowing and fire cleaning. Only
during such fifteen (15) minute period shall smoke of a density equal to, but
not exceeding, Ringelmann no. 3 be permitted, and then only for fire cleaning
and for not more than four (4) minutes per period.
         b.   Particulate Matter Emission: Particulate matter emission of
particulate matter from all sources within the boundaries of any zoning lot
shall not exceed the rate established in the following table:
Height Of Emission In Feet Rate In Pounds Per Hour Per Acre
Height Of Emission In Feet Rate In Pounds Per Hour Per Acre
   Under 50             1.00
   Over 50              1.01
   Over 100             1.06
   Over 150             1.10
   Over 200             1.16
   Over 300             1.30
   Over 400             1.50
 
         c.   Methods Of Measurement:
            (1)   Smoke: For the purpose of grading the density of emission of
smoke, the Ringelmann chart, published and used by the United States bureau of
mines, shall be employed. For the purpose of determining smoke units, the
Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least every minute during the
period of observation. Each reading (Ringelmann number) shall be multiplied by
the time in minutes for which it is observed, and the products added together
to give the total number of smoke units observed during the total period of
observation.
         d.   Particulate Matter: Determination of the total net rate of
emission of particulate matter within the boundaries of any lot shall be made
as follows:
            (1)   Determine the maximum emission in pounds per hour from each
source of emission and divide this figure by the number of acres of lot area,
thereby obtaining the hourly rate of emission in pounds per acre. Add together
the individual rates of emission as derived above to obtain the total rate of
emission from all sources of emission within the boundaries of the lot. It is
this total that shall not exceed the rate established in subsection B3b,
"Particulate Matter Emission" of this section.
      4.   Odors: No continuous, frequent, or repetitive emission of odors or
odor causing substances which would be offensive beyond any property line of
any industrial use will be permitted. An odor emitted no more than fifteen (15)
minutes in any one day shall not be deemed as continuous, frequent, or
repetitive within the meaning of these regulations. The existence of an odor
shall be presumed to be in existence in such quantities as to be readily
detectable when diluted in the ratio of one volume of odorous air to four (4)
volumes of clean air at the point of measurement. Any process which may involve
the creation or emission of any odors shall be provided with a secondary
safeguard system, so that control will be maintained if the primary safeguard
should fail. There is hereby established as a guide only in determining such
quantities of offensive odors, table III, "Odor Thresholds," in chapter 5, "Air
Pollution Abatement Manual", copyright 1952 by the Manufacturing Chemists
Association, Inc., Washington, D.C.; subject to investigation, measurement, and
analysis in accordance with the provisions of section 15 thereof.
      5.   Toxic And Noxious Matter: No emission which would be demonstrably
injurious to human health, animals, or plant life beyond the lot boundaries of
any ORD use in any ORD zone will be permitted. Where an ORD use could produce
such emissions as a result of accident or equipment malfunction, adequate
safeguards considered standard for safe operation in the industry involved
shall be taken; provided, however, that these requirements shall not be deemed
a limitation and restriction on the manufacturing of pharmaceuticals or
chemicals consistent with methods, manufacturing equipment, and processes
recognized by the Manufacturing Chemists' Association, Inc.
      6.   Fire And Explosive Hazards: The storage, utilization, or manufacture
of solid materials or products ranging from free or active burning to intense
burning is permitted, provided said materials or products are stored, utilized,
or manufactured within completely enclosed buildings having incombustible
exterior walls, protected throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing system.
Nothing herein contained shall be a limitation on open storage of coal or coke
stored behind a solid fence or wall with a height adequate for concealment and
located not less than seventy five feet (75') from exterior property line.
      7.   Storage Of Flammable Materials: The storage, utilization,
manufacture of flammable liquids, or of materials that produce flammable or
explosive vapors or gases (exclusive of storage of finished products in
original sealed containers, which is not restricted) is permitted on any lot
having an area of five (5) acres in accordance with the minimum gallonage
requirements of the following table; provided, however, that the number of
containers containing the respective quantities may be increased in proportion
to each addition of five (5) acres or multiples thereof, within said additional
containers having the same quantity limitations as shown in the table:
 
Closed Cup Flashpoint In Degrees Fahrenheit Aboveground Belowground
   Greater than 187                      2,000       50,000
   105 to 187                            0           50,000
   Less than 105                         0           50,000
 
      8.   Radiation Hazards: The handling of radioactive materials, the
discharge of such materials into air and water, the disposal of radioactive
wastes, shall be in conformance with:
         a.   The applicable regulations of the atomic energy commission; and
         b.   The applicable regulations of any instrumentality of the state of
Illinois.
      9.   Sewage Waste: Sewage waste shall not be permitted unless neutralized
to a permissible range of pH 5.5 to pH 9.0. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 6
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. L-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: General Purpose
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Special Uses
10-6A-4: Lot Area Requirements
10-6A-5: Additional Regulations
10-6A-1: GENERAL PURPOSE:
The zoning regulations for this zoning district are designed to minimize the
potential for land use conflicts between permitted light industrial uses and
adjacent residential and commercial land uses. To accomplish this objective,
light industrial use activities are subject to the standard zoning yard and
setback provisions and a series of performance standards limiting smoke, noise,
heat, vibration and other industrial emissions. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
A mixture of light industrial, manufacturing/assembly and warehouse/storage
uses is permitted as follows:
Assembly operations.
Automotive products and service operations including car washes, body repair
shops, wholesale/used parts, but not including automobile manufacturing and
assembly.
Beverage warehouse and distribution buildings.
Building materials sales including lumberyards and home improvement centers,
but not asphalt plants or brickyards.
Light manufacturing operations.
Public and private utility substations.
Radio, television and telephone transmission/relay structures.
Social fitness and athletic club.
Wholesale and warehouse operations including rental self-storage yards. (Ord.
2007-05, 1-22-2007)
10-6A-3: SPECIAL USES:
Adult media store.
Body art studios, as regulated in Title 3 Chapter 14 of this Code.
Gravel mining and other quarry products.
Heavy contractor's yard/storage.
Heavy machinery and equipment sales and service.
Outdoor sales lots.
Planned developments on tracts of land not less than ten (10) acres in area.
Salvage yards. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2025-19, 4-7-2025)
10-6A-4: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Specifications:
      1.   Area: Not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet; and
      2.   Width: Not less than one hundred feet (100') at the front building
line.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard or setback: Not less than thirty five feet (35'). A side
yard adjoining a street shall be considered as a front yard.
      2.   Side yard or setback: Not less than fifteen feet (15') per side.
      3.   Rear yard or setback: Not less than thirty feet (30') except where
the rear yard is adjacent to residential property, then the rear yard shall not
be less than sixty feet (60').
   C.   Floor Area Ratio: Not to exceed 0.8 to one ratio of floor area to lot
size (the total floor area shall not be more than 0.8 times the total square
foot area of the lot).
   D.   Building Height: Not more than forty feet (40') or three (3) stories,
whichever is less. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-6A-5: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Business Operation Standards: No business shall be open to the public
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.,
seven (7) days a week.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings, used in conjunction with the
principal use on a lot, shall have a front yard of not less than sixty feet
(60') and a side and rear yard of not less than five feet (5') from the
established lot lines. In no event shall an accessory building have a front
yard of less than the front yard of the principal building located on said lot.
   C.   Off Street Parking And Loading: In addition to the applicable
regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this title, the following parking
regulations shall apply in the L-1 light industrial district:
      1.   Parking lot and driveway setbacks shall be as follows:
         a.   Front yard setback: Fifteen feet (15').
         b.   Side and rear yard setback: Ten feet (10').
   D.   Signs: In accordance with application regulations set forth in title 9,
chapter 4, "Sign Regulations", of this code.
   E.   Performance Standards: Same as those required by section
 10-5F-6 of this title. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 7
SD SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7-1: General Purpose
10-7-2: Definitions
10-7-3: District Location Standards (Rep. by Ord. 09-16, 7-6-2009)
10-7-4: Establishment Of Use Areas
10-7-5: Use Areas
10-7-5-1: Office Park Use Area Regulations
10-7-5-2: Light Industrial Park Use Area Regulations
10-7-5-3: Commercial Use Area Regulations
10-7-5-4: Retail Center Use Area Regulations
10-7-5-5: Single-Family Use Area Regulations
10-7-5-6: Multi-Family Use Area Regulations
10-7-5-7: Gaming And Docking Use Area Regulations
10-7-6: Parking Requirements
10-7-1: GENERAL PURPOSE:
The SD special development district is designed to promote high quality
development of large sites, which due to close access to the regional
transportation network, can support uses having regional significance. Because
of the nature and size of such sites, full development potential can only be
achieved by accommodating a mix of uses on the site. Thus, this district is
intended to provide for mixed use flexibility while maintaining appropriate
design standards for the individual uses allowed in the district. The SD
special development district is also intended to establish design standards and
development controls that are appropriate for regionally significant
development sites. (Ord. 93-09, 7-12-1993)
10-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be applied to this chapter:
   ACCESSORY USE: An activity conducted or located within a building or
structure, or on the open area of the lot which:
   A.   Is conducted or located on the same zoning lot as the principal
building or use, except as may be specifically provided elsewhere in this
chapter;
   B.   Is clearly incidental to, subordinate in purpose to, and serves the
principal use; and
   C.   Is in either the same ownership as the principal use or is clearly
operated and maintained solely for the comfort, convenience, necessity, or
benefit of the occupants, employees, customers, or visitors of or to the
principal use.
   ANIMAL CARE FACILITIES, INCLUDING VETERINARIAN OFFICES, ANIMAL HOSPITALS,
AND KENNELS: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation or treatment of domestic animals which may include boarding and/or
veterinary care.
   ANIMAL/PET GROOMING SERVICES: Any business where clipping, bathing, and
related services are provided for dogs, cats, and other domestic pets but not
including veterinary care and/or daytime and boarding.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The maximum vertical distance above a reference datum
measured to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line
of a mansard roof, or to the average height of the highest gable of a pitched
or hipped roof. The reference datum shall be the grade of adjacent ground
within ten feet (10') of the building based on either natural grade or an
approved grading plan. "Permitted rooftop mechanical equipment", as defined
herein, shall be excluded from the measurement of maximum height.
   DEVELOPMENT PARCEL: An area of land that may contain multiple lots and
buildings which is planned and constructed as a coordinated development.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO: The number obtained by dividing the floor area of all
permanent roofed over buildings on a lot, by the area of the lot on which the
building or buildings are located. For the purpose of calculating floor area
ratio, floor area shall include the floor area of all aboveground floors or
stories, but shall not include floor area contained in basements or below grade
floors.
   GAMING FACILITY: Those facilities, including, but not limited to, docking
facilities, established pursuant to licenses issued under the riverboat
gambling act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/1 et seq., or facilities
established pursuant to the Illinois horseracing act of 1975, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1 relating to off track betting, and accessory facilities
and uses ancillary thereto, but expressly excluding land based casino and
gambling facilities.
   HALF STORY: That portion of a building under a gable, hip, or mansard roof,
the wall plates of which on at least two (2) opposite sides, are not more than
four and one-half feet (41/2') above the finished ceiling of the story
immediately below.
   INDUSTRIAL ASSEMBLY USE: An industrial use in the light industrial park use
area engaged in the fabrication of finished or partially finished products from
premade component parts produced off site. Assembly use shall not engage in
metal stamping, food processing, chemical processing, or painting.
   LANDSCAPE AREA: A portion of the lot devoted exclusively to landscaping,
except that streets, drives, and sidewalks may be located within such area to
provide reasonable access.
   LANDSCAPE COVERAGE: The portion of a lot free from buildings, structures and
pavement, but inclusive of water bodies and detention areas. Landscape coverage
is expressed as a percentage of lot area.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USE: The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods or
materials using processes that ordinarily do not create noise, smoke, fumes,
odors, glare, or health or safety hazards outside the building. Such processes
shall occur entirely within an enclosed building. No outdoor storage is
allowed. Light industrial use generally includes processing and fabrication of
finished products, predominately from previously prepared materials, and
includes processes which do not require extensive floor or land areas.
   MINIMUM DEVELOPMENT PARCEL AREA: The smallest amount of land permitted to be
designated for development under a particular use area.
   OFFICE USE: A type of business use, which may or may not offer services to
the consuming public, that is engaged in the processing, manipulation or
application of business information or professional expertise. An office use is
not materially involved in fabricating, assembling or warehousing of physical
products for the retail or wholesale market, nor is an office engaged in the
repair of products or retail services. Examples of professional offices
include: accounting, investment services, architecture, engineering, legal
services and real estate services. Unless otherwise specified, office use shall
include doctor's and dentist's offices.
   PARKING SETBACK: An area in which off street parking is prohibited, although
driveways and sidewalks are permitted when needed to provide reasonable access.
   PERMITTED ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT: Mechanical equipment and accessory
structures located above the maximum height permitted shall be limited to the
following: a) on flat roof buildings, accessory structures and buildings not
more than fifteen feet (15') in height are permitted, provided that structures
over six feet (6') in height are located at least twenty feet (20') from the
exterior wall of the building; and b) on all other roofs, accessory structures
shall be limited to chimneys, antennas, utility service poles, flagpoles, vents
and other similar structures which do not exceed ten feet (10') in height.
   RETAIL GOODS ESTABLISHMENT: A building, property, or activity, the principal
use of which is the sale of physical goods, products or merchandise directly to
the consumer.
   RETAIL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: A building, property, or activity, the
principal use of which is the provision of personal services directly to the
consumer. The term "retail service establishment" shall include, but not be
limited to, barbershops, beauty parlors, laundry and dry cleaning
establishments (plant off premises), tailoring shops, shoe repair shops and
other similar establishments.
   SPECIMEN COLLECTION FACILITY: A facility that collects materials derived
from the human body for the purpose of testing to provide information for the
diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of any disease or impairment of, or
assessment of the health of, human beings. Said facilities shall be limited to
a maximum of two (2) within SD Special Development District Zoning.
   STREETS, ARTERIAL: A street or road under the jurisdiction of IDOT or the
county highway department.
   STREETS, COLLECTOR: Public or private streets within the development
designed to the standards of a collector street as established in the
subdivision regulations.
   STREETS, LOCAL: Any public or private street that is not an arterial street
or a collector street.
   USE AREA: An area of land designated for a particular range of uses, and
subject to design standards as established in this chapter.
   WAREHOUSE/DISTRIBUTION: A use engaged in the short term storage of materials
for one company within an entirely enclosed building and using trucks/tractor
trailers for the transport of such goods. This use shall not include truck
freight terminals.
(Ord. 93-09, 7-12-1993; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 3-7-2022; Ord. 2023-27, 10-2-2023)
10-7-3: DISTRICT LOCATION STANDARDS:
(Rep. by Ord. 09-16, 7-6-2009)
10-7-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF USE AREAS:
To adequately control the development of mixed uses, use areas are established
as a method to control the grouping of uses. "Use area", as defined herein,
shall be established that require the grouping of like/similar uses within the
prescribed area and the application of design standards related to the use
group. Thus, while the SD district allows the owner/developer certain
locational discretion in terms of the arrangement of uses, the use area
regulations of the district place controls on such discretion to ensure
compatibility of use and design standards. In addition to the specific design
standards of each use area, the following general regulations for use areas
shall apply:
   A.   Designation Of Use Areas: Given the size and nature of sites designated
in the SD district, it is anticipated that development will occur sequentially
over a long period of time. This sequential development process shall be
initiated by the owner's/developer's designation of a use area for the portion
of the site that is to be the subject of the current phase of development. This
designation of a use area shall be part of an application for subdivision
approval as contained in the village's subdivision regulations.
   B.   Application Of Subdivision Regulations: The layout of streets, public
improvements and other aspects of land subdivision shall be subject to the full
application of the village's subdivision regulations. Conformance to design
standards shall be based on the use area regulations contained in the SD
district regulations.
   C.   Minimum Size Of Use Area Development Parcels: The size of use areas
must conform to the minimum development parcel size requirements contained
within the use area regulations for each use area.
   D.   Use Area Boundaries: Use areas conforming to applicable minimum
development parcel size requirements shall be defined by the following
boundaries:
      1.   Boundaries of land ownership, other than public rights of way, shall
constitute a use area boundary.
      2.   Collector level streets, as defined in the subdivision regulations,
shall constitute a use area boundary.
      3.   Arterial streets, as defined in the subdivision regulations, or
state highways, shall constitute a use area boundary.
      4.   SD district boundaries shall constitute use area boundaries.
      5.   Use area boundaries other than those listed above shall be described
via survey and established at the time of preliminary subdivision. (Ord. 93-09,
7-12-1993)
10-7-5: USE AREAS:
   A.   Categories: Seven (7) categories of use areas are hereby established:
      1.   Office park use area.
      2.   Light industrial park use area.
      3.   Commercial use area.
      4.   Retail center use area.
      5.   Single-family use area.
      6.   Multi-family use area.
      7.   Gaming and docking use area.
   B.   Purpose Statements: Consistent with the intent of the SD district to
foster high quality and integrated land development, the purpose of each of the
seven (7) use areas is described below:
      1.   Office Park Use Area: To create campus like settings for
professional offices and related principal and accessory uses which include
generous landscape areas and well planned vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
      2.   Light Industrial Park Use Area: To create clean and attractive
centers for light industries which exhibit attractive landscaping, indoor
operations, properly located loading facilities and appropriate yard and bulk
standards.
      3.   Commercial Use Area: To allow for a wide range of commercial uses,
which may include larger scale use of regional significance, within the context
of an attractive setting.
      4.   Retail Center Use Area: To create integrated shopping centers
exhibiting safe and efficient ingress and egress, attractive and coordinated
landscaping, compatible architecture and signage, and well functioning internal
circulation and parking lots.
      5.   Single-Family Use Area: To provide for attractive single- family use
areas within the context of a large mixed use planned development.
      6.   Multi-Family Use Area: To provide standards for multi-family uses to
promote high quality development exhibiting good site planning, compatible
architecture, appropriate yards and attractive landscaping.
      7.   Gaming And Docking Use Area: To provide appropriate development
controls over gaming and docking facilities and related uses. (Ord. 93-09, 7-
12-1993)
10-7-5-1: OFFICE PARK USE AREA REGULATIONS:
The range of permitted and special uses and the design of buildings, lots and
lot improvements shall conform with the following regulations:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Accessory uses.
      Art galleries.
      Banks, including those with drive-through facilities.
      Credit unions.
      Daycare, for adults and children when accessory to a permitted use.
      Finance companies.
      Government offices/services (excluding maintenance shops).
      Graphics and drafting services.
      Insurance offices.
      Medical and dental offices.
      Meeting halls.
      Offices; business, professional, governmental and institutional.
      Private social and fitness clubs.
      Real estate offices.
      Research laboratories, accessory to permitted uses.
      Restaurants, accessory; located within the building of a principal
permitted use.
      Retail goods establishment, accessory; located within the building of a
principal permitted use.
      Retail service establishment, accessory; located within the building of a
principal permitted use.
      Savings and loans, including those with drive-through facilities.
      Savings banks, including those with drive-through facilities.
      Schools; technical, business or vocational.
      Studios; art, music and photographic.
   B.   Special Uses:
      Colleges and universities.
      Daycare, adult and children.
      Health clubs.
      Heliports.
      Hotels and motels.
      Research and development facilities.
      Laboratories; research and testing.
      Libraries.
      Museums.
      Public parks and open space.
      Schools, primary or secondary, either public or private.
      Specimen collection facilities.
      Utility service buildings, towers and uses, excluding ordinary
transmission lines, wires, poles, etc., providing service to individual uses.
   C.   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Development Parcel Area: Twenty (20) acres.
      2.   Minimum Lot Area: 2.5 acres, provided that corner lots abutting an
arterial or collector street shall be not less than five (5) acres.
      3.   Minimum Lot Width: Two hundred fifty feet (250'), provided that:
         a.   On corner lots the lot width shall not be less than three hundred
feet (300'); and
         b.   On corner lots abutting an arterial or collector street the lot
width shall not be less than four hundred fifty feet (450').
      4.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
         a.   Front Yard And Corner Side Yard:
            (1)   For Lots Along Arterial And Collector Streets: Seventy five
feet (75').
            (2)   For Lots Along Local Streets: Thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Interior Side Yard: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      5.   Minimum Parking Setbacks: Parking areas on lots within the office
park use area shall maintain the following minimum setbacks:
         a.   In Front And Corner Side Yards Abutting Arterial And Collector
Streets: Twenty five feet (25'), except that where the setback coincides with a
scenic easement, no parking setback shall be required.
         b.   In Front And Corner Side Yards Abutting Local Streets: Fifteen
feet (15').
         c.   Minimum Setback Along Any Property Line: Ten feet (10').
         d.   Internal Parking Setbacks From Buildings: A minimum of fifteen
feet (15') of landscaped area shall be provided around all principal buildings.
      6.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   Principal Buildings: Maximum building height shall be one hundred
twenty five feet (125'), provided that for each foot in height over seventy
feet (70'), each required yard shall be increased one foot (1').
         b.   Accessory Buildings: Fifty feet (50'), provided that for each
foot the building exceeds thirty five feet (35') in height, each required yard
shall be increased one foot (1').
      7.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio: 1.0, including the floor area of all
principal and accessory buildings.
      8.   Required Space Between Buildings: Multiple buildings are permitted
on a lot, provided that the following spacing between buildings is provided:
         a.   Space Between Principal Buildings: Forty feet (40'), provided
that for each three feet (3') of height over seventy feet (70'), this space
shall be increased one foot (1').
         b.   Space Between Principal And Accessory Buildings: Twenty feet
(20'), provided that for each foot the accessory building exceeds thirty five
feet (35'), this space shall be increased one foot (1').
         c.   Space Between Accessory Buildings: Twenty feet (20').
      9.   Minimum Landscape Coverage: The minimum landscape coverage shall be
not less than thirty five percent (35%) of the lot area.
      10.   Transitional Buffer Requirements: Where a boundary line for an
office park use area abuts a boundary line for any residential use area without
separation of a public right of way, a landscape buffer fifty feet (50') in
width shall be required in addition to any required yards. The landscape buffer
shall be improved as required by the village's D. Hill landscape standards.
   D.   Business Operation Standards: No business shall be open to the public
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.,
seven (7) days a week, except that said standard shall not apply to automobile
service stations or hotel and motel complexes providing twenty four (24) hour a
day services. Further, that automatic operated devices, including specifically
cash station and other automatic cash machines provided in association with
banking and lending institutions, newspaper vending machines, and pop and food
vending machines, all used and operated as an accessory use to the principal
use as a business otherwise operating in this use area, should not be
considered in violation of the business operation standards as long as they are
fully automated and do not require attendant personnel between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 93-09, 7-12-1993; amd.
Ord. 2022-05, 3-7-2022)
10-7-5-2: LIGHT INDUSTRIAL PARK USE AREA REGULATIONS:
The range of permitted and special uses and the design of buildings, lots and
lot improvements shall conform with the following regulations:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Accessory uses.
      Automotive products and service operations.
      Blueprinting and photostating shops.
      Business machine sales, rental and service.
      Contractor offices, no outdoor storage.
      Daycare, for adults and children when accessory to a permitted use.
      Equipment sales and rental.
      Government offices and services.
      Industrial assembly use.
      Laboratories; medical, dental and optical.
      Laboratories; research and testing.
      Light industrial uses.
      Mail order houses.
      Newspaper distribution agencies.
      Precision instrument manufacture.
      Rental self-storage.
      Research and development facilities.
      Warehouse, distribution and wholesale uses.
   B.   Special Uses:
      Adult media store.
      Body art studios, as regulated in title 3, chapter 14 of this code.
      Communication transmission towers.
      Freight terminals.
      Health clubs/indoor recreation.
      Public parks and open space.
      Specimen collection facilities.
      Utility service buildings, towers and uses, excluding ordinary
transmission lines, wires, poles, etc., providing service to individual uses.
      Vehicle parking/storage.
   C.   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Development Parcel Area: Twenty (20) acres.
      2.   Minimum Lot Area: One acre, provided that corner lots abutting an
arterial or collector street shall be not less than two (2) acres.
      3.   Minimum Lot Width: One hundred fifty feet (150'), provided that on
corner lots, the lot width shall not be less than three hundred feet (300').
      4.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
         a.   Front Yard And Corner Side Yard:
            (1)   For Lots Along Arterial And Collector Streets: Fifty feet
(50').
            (2)   For Lots Along Local Streets: Thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Interior Side Yard: Fifteen feet (15').
         c.   Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      5.   Minimum Parking Setbacks: Parking areas on lots within the light
industrial park use area shall maintain the following minimum setbacks:
         a.   In Front And Corner Side Yards Abutting Arterial And Collector
Streets: Twenty feet (20'), except that where the setback coincides with a
scenic easement, no parking setback shall be required.
         b.   In Front And Corner Side Yards Abutting Local Streets: Fifteen
feet (15').
         c.   Minimum Setback Along Any Property Line: Ten feet (10').
         d.   Internal Parking Setbacks From Buildings: A minimum of ten feet
(10') of landscaped area shall be provided around all principal buildings,
provided that where access is needed from parking or service areas, this number
may be reduced to zero.
      6.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   Principal Buildings: Maximum building height shall be forty five
feet (45').
         b.   Accessory Buildings: Thirty five feet (35').
      7.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio: 0.6, including the floor area of all
principal and accessory buildings.
      8.   Required Space Between Buildings: Multiple buildings are permitted
on a lot, provided that the following spacing between buildings is provided:
         a.   Space Between Principal Buildings: Thirty feet (30').
         b.   Space Between Principal And Accessory Buildings: Twenty feet
(20').
         c.   Space Between Accessory Buildings: Twenty feet (20').
      9.   Minimum Landscape Coverage: The minimum landscape coverage shall be
not less than thirty percent (30%) of the lot area.
      10.   Transitional Buffer Requirements: Where a boundary line for a light
industrial park use area abuts a boundary line for any residential use area
without separation of a public right of way, a landscape buffer fifty feet
(50') in width shall be required in addition to any required yards. The
landscape buffer shall be improved with plant material as required by the
village's D. Hill landscape standards.
   D.   Business Operation Standards: No business shall be open to the public
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.,
seven (7) days a week, except that said standard shall not apply to automobile
service stations or hotel and motel complexes providing twenty four (24) hour a
day services. Further, that automatic operated devices, including specifically
cash station and other automatic cash machines provided in association with
banking and lending institutions, newspaper vending machines, and pop and food
vending machines, all used and operated as an accessory use to the principal
use as a business otherwise operating in this use area, should not be
considered in violation of the business operation standards as long as they are
fully automated and do not require attendant personnel between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 93-09, 7-12-1993; amd.
Ord. 2021-33, 12-6-2021; Ord. 2022-05, 3-7-2022; Ord. 2025-19, 4-7-2025)
10-7-5-3: COMMERCIAL USE AREA REGULATIONS:
The range of permitted and special uses and the design of buildings, lots and
lot improvements shall conform with the following regulations:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Accessory uses.
      Animal/pet grooming services.
      Art galleries.
      Automobile sales.
      Banks, including those with drive-through facilities.
      Bars and taverns.
      Bars with live entertainment and/or dancing.
      Blueprinting and photostat shops.
      Building materials, retail, within enclosed building, except that garden
sales may occur outside.
      Business machine sales and rental.
      Business service uses.
      Concert halls and performance theaters, indoor.
      Credit unions.
      Daycare, adults and children.
      Employment agencies.
      Finance companies.
      Garden centers.
      Government offices and services.
      Health clubs and fitness centers.
      Hotels and motels.
      Libraries and reading rooms.
      Medical and dental offices.
      Motion picture theaters.
      Offices, professional and business, not to exceed thirty percent (30%) of
the use area.
      Restaurants; including those with drive-in facilities, alcohol service
and/or entertainment.
      Retail goods establishment.
      Retail service establishment.
      Riding stables and schools.
      Schools; business, vocational, technical, music and dance.
   B.   Special Uses:
      Animal care facilities, including veterinarian offices, animal hospitals
and kennels.
      Bowling alleys.
      Car and truck rental.
      Cemeteries and mausoleums.
      Convalescent and nursing homes.
      Convention centers.
      Dance halls.
      Game rooms.
      Golf courses.
      Golf driving ranges.
      Funeral homes.
      Heliports.
      Hospitals.
      Laboratories, testing and research.
      Nurseries and greenhouses.
      Offices; business and professional, in excess if thirty percent (30%) of
the use area.
      Outdoor motion picture theaters.
      Outdoor retail sales.
      Pool halls.
      Restaurants, where alcohol service and/or entertainment is conducted
outdoors.
      Skating rinks, indoor.
      Specimen collection facilities.
      Utility service buildings, towers and uses, excluding ordinary
transmission lines, wires, poles, etc., providing service to individual uses.
   C.   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Development Parcel Area: Ten (10) acres.
      2.   Minimum Lot Area: Twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, provided
that corner lots abutting an arterial or collector street shall be not less
than one acre.
      3.   Minimum Lot Width: One hundred feet (100'), provided that on corner
lots the lot width shall not be less than two hundred feet (200').
      4.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
         a.   Front Yard And Corner Side Yard:
            (1)   For Lots Along Arterial And Collector Streets: Fifty feet
(50').
            (2)   For Lots Along Local Streets: Thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Interior Side Yard: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      5.   Minimum Parking Setbacks: Parking areas on lots within the
commercial use area shall maintain the following minimum setbacks:
         a.   In Front And Corner Side Yards Abutting Arterial And Collector
Streets: Twenty feet (20'), except that where the setback coincides with a
scenic easement, no parking setback shall be required.
         b.   In Front And Corner Side Yards Abutting Local Streets: Ten feet
(10').
         c.   Minimum Setback Along Any Property Line: Ten feet (10').
         d.   Internal Parking Setbacks From Buildings: A minimum of ten feet
(10') of landscaped area shall be provided around all principal buildings,
provided that where access is needed from parking or service areas, this number
shall be reduced to zero.
      6.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   Principal Buildings: Maximum building height shall be one hundred
twenty five feet (125'), provided that for each foot in height over seventy
feet (70'), each required yard shall be increased one foot (1').
         b.   Accessory Buildings: Fifty feet (50'), provided that for each
foot the building exceeds thirty five feet (35') in height, each required yard
shall be increased one foot (1').
      7.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio: 1.0, including the floor area of all
principal and accessory buildings.
      8.   Required Space Between Buildings: Multiple buildings are permitted
on a lot, provided that the following spacing between buildings is provided:
         a.   Space Between Principal Buildings: Forty feet (40'), provided
that for each three feet (3') of height over seventy feet (70'), this space
shall be increased one foot (1').
         b.   Space Between Principal And Accessory Buildings: Twenty feet
(20'), provided that for each foot the accessory building exceeds twenty five
feet (25'), this space shall be increased one foot (1').
         c.   Space Between Accessory Buildings: Twenty feet (20').
      9.   Minimum Landscape Coverage: The minimum landscape coverage shall be
not less than thirty percent (30%) of the lot area.
      10.   Transitional Buffer Requirements: Where a boundary line for a
commercial use area abuts a boundary line for any residential use area without
separation of a public right of way, a landscape buffer fifty feet (50') in
width shall be required in addition to any required yards. The landscape buffer
shall be improved with plant material as required by the village's D. Hill
landscape standards.
   D.   Business Operation Standards: No business shall be open to the public
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.,
seven (7) days a week, except that said standard shall not apply to automobile
service stations or hotel and motel complexes providing twenty four (24) hour a
day services. Further, that automatic operated devices, including specifically
cash station and other automatic cash machines provided in association with
banking and lending institutions, newspaper vending machines, and pop and food
vending machines, all used and operated as an accessory use to the principal
use as a business otherwise operating in this use area, should not be
considered in violation of the business operation standards as long as they are
fully automated and do not require attendant personnel between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
(Ord. 93-09, 7-12-1993; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 3-7-2022)
10-7-5-4: RETAIL CENTER USE AREA REGULATIONS:
The range of permitted and special uses and the design of buildings, lots and
lot improvements shall conform with the following regulations:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Accessory uses.
      Animal/pet grooming services.
      Art galleries.
      Banks, including those with drive-through facilities.
      Bars and taverns.
      Bars with live entertainment and dancing.
      Building materials, retail, within an enclosed building, except that
garden sales may occur outdoors.
      Credit unions.
      Employment agencies.
      Finance companies.
      Game rooms.
      Government offices and services.
      Health clubs and fitness centers.
      Medical and dental offices.
      Offices, business and professional, not to exceed thirty percent (30%) of
the use area.
      Restaurants; including those with drive-through, alcohol service and
entertainment.
      Retail goods establishment.
      Retail service establishment.
   B.   Special Uses:
      Bowling alleys.
      Dance halls.
      Golf driving ranges.
      Hotels and motels.
      Laboratories, testing and research.
      Offices; business and professional, in excess of thirty percent (30%) of
the use area.
      Outdoor retail sales.
      Pool halls.
      Restaurants, with alcohol service and/or entertainment outdoors.
      Retail gasoline sales/fueling center.
      Skating rinks, indoor.
      Specimen collection facilities.
   C.   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Development Parcel Area: Five (5) acres.
      2.   Minimum Lot Area: Twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, provided
that all lots are part of an integrated retail development.
      3.   Minimum Lot Width: One hundred feet (100').
      4.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
         a.   Front Yard And Corner Side Yard: Forty feet (40').
         b.   Interior Side Yard: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      5.   Minimum Parking Setbacks: Parking areas on lots within the retail
center use area shall maintain the following minimum setbacks:
         a.   In Front And Corner Side Yards: Fifteen feet (15'), except that
where the setback coincides with a scenic easement, no parking setback shall be
required.
         b.   Minimum Setback Along Any Property Line: Ten feet (10').
         c.   Internal Parking Setbacks From Buildings: A minimum of ten feet
(10') of landscaped area shall be provided around all principal buildings,
provided that where access is needed from parking or service areas, this number
shall be reduced to zero.
      6.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   Principal Buildings: Maximum building height shall be forty five
feet (45'), excluding rooftop equipment and decorative architectural features.
         b.   Accessory Buildings: Thirty five feet (35').
      7.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio: 0.4, including the floor area of all
principal and accessory buildings.
      8.   Required Space Between Buildings: Multiple buildings are permitted
on a lot, provided that the following spacing between buildings is provided:
         a.   Space Between Principal Buildings: Twenty five feet (25').
         b.   Space Between Principal And Accessory Buildings: Twenty feet
(20').
         c.   Space Between Accessory Buildings: Twenty feet (20').
      9.   Minimum Landscape Coverage: The minimum landscape coverage shall be
not less than fifteen percent (15%) of the lot area.
   D.   Business Operation Standards: No business shall be open to the public
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.,
seven (7) days a week, except that said standard shall not apply to automobile
service stations or hotel and motel complexes providing twenty four (24) hour a
day services. Further, that automatic operated devices, including specifically
cash station and other automatic cash machines provided in association with
banking and lending institutions, newspaper vending machines, and pop and food
vending machines, all used and operated as an accessory use to the principal
use as a business otherwise operating in this use area, should not be
considered in violation of the business operation standards as long as they are
fully automated and do not require attendant personnel between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
(Ord. 93-09, 7-12-1993; amd. Ord. 2021-33, 12-6-2021; Ord. 2022-05, 3-7-2022;
Ord. 2023-27, 10-2-2023)
10-7-5-5: SINGLE-FAMILY USE AREA REGULATIONS:
The range of permitted and special uses and the design of buildings, lots and
lot improvements shall conform with the following regulations:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Accessory uses.
      Municipal service uses.
      Single-family detached dwellings.
   B.   Special Uses:
      Golf courses, including accessory driving ranges.
      Parks and open space, public and private.
      Religious institutions.
      Riding stables and schools.
      Schools, primary and secondary, public and private.
   C.   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Development Parcel Area: Twenty (20) acres.
      2.   Minimum Lot Area: Fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
      3.   Minimum Lot Width: Eighty feet (80') for interior lots, one hundred
feet (100') for corner lots.
      4.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
         a.   Front Yard And Corner Side Yard: Thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Interior Side Yard: Fifteen feet (15').
         c.   Rear Yard: Thirty five feet (35').
      5.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories, whichever is less. (Ord. 93-09, 7-12-1993)
10-7-5-6: MULTI-FAMILY USE AREA REGULATIONS:
The range of permitted and special uses and the design of buildings, lots and
lot improvements shall conform with the following regulations:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Accessory uses.
      Multi-family dwellings.
      Townhouse dwellings.
   B.   Special Uses:
      Cluster single-family detached dwellings.
      Municipal service uses.
      Parks and open space, public.
      Religious institutions.
      Schools, public.
   C.   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Development Parcel Area: Twenty (20) acres.
      2.   Minimum Development Area: The minimum area of a specific multi-
family/townhouse development shall not be less than three (3) acres.
      3.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
         a.   Front Yard And Corner Side Yard: Thirty feet (30').
         b.   Interior Side Yard:
            (1)   Multi-Family Dwellings: Fifteen feet (15').
            (2)   Cluster Single-Family Dwellings: Six feet (6'), except that
one interior side yard may be reduced to one foot (1').
            (3)   Townhouse Dwellings: Fifteen feet (15'), except that where
dwellings are attached, the interior side yard may be zero.
         c.   Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      4.   Required Space Between Buildings: All buildings containing multi-
family and townhouse dwellings shall conform to the following space between
building requirements:
         a.   Multi-Family Dwellings:
            (1)   The front face of a building shall not be within sixty feet
(60') of another building.
            (2)   The rear face of a building shall not be within fifty feet
(50') of another building.
            (3)   Where the side face of a building faces the side face of
another building, the minimum space between the two (2) buildings shall be not
less than thirty feet (30').
         b.   Townhouse And Cluster Single-Family Dwellings:
            (1)   The rear face of a building shall not be within forty feet
(40') of another building.
            (2)   Where the side face of a building faces the side face of
another building, the minimum space between the two (2) buildings shall be not
less than twenty feet (20').
         c.   Space Between Principal And Accessory Buildings: Ten feet (10').
         d.   Space Between Accessory Buildings: Ten feet (10').
      5.   Gross Development Area Per Dwelling Unit: There shall be not less
than eight thousand five hundred (8,500) square feet of gross development area
per dwelling unit.
      6.   Maximum Building Height: Forty five feet (45') or three and one-half
(31/2) stories, whichever is less. (Ord. 93-09, 7-12-1993)
10-7-5-7: GAMING AND DOCKING USE AREA REGULATIONS:
The range of permitted and special uses and the design of buildings, lots and
lot improvements shall conform with the following regulations:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Accessory uses.
      Art galleries.
      Bars and taverns.
      Bars with live entertainment and/or dancing.
      Concert halls and performance theaters, indoor.
      Gaming and docking facilities.
      Health clubs and fitness centers.
      Hotels and motels.
      Motion picture theaters.
      Restaurants; including those with drive-in facilities, alcohol service
and/or entertainment.
      Retail goods establishment.
      Retail service establishment.
   B.   Special Uses:
      Dance halls.
      Heliports.
      Restaurants, where alcohol service and/or entertainment is conducted
outdoors.
      Utility service buildings, towers and uses, excluding ordinary
transmission lines, wires, poles, etc., providing service to individual uses.
   C.   Lot Area Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Development Parcel Area: Fifteen (15) acres.
      2.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area for separate uses on a lot of
record shall not be less than two (2) acres.
      3.   Minimum Lot Width: Three hundred feet (300').
      4.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
         a.   Front Yard And Corner Side Yard:
            (1)   For Lots Along Arterial And Collector Streets: Seventy five
feet (75').
            (2)   For Lots Along Local Streets: Fifty feet (50').
         b.   Interior Side Yard: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      5.   Minimum Parking Setbacks: Parking areas on lots within the gaming
and docking use area shall maintain the following minimum setbacks:
         a.   In Front And Corner Side Yards Abutting Arterial And Collector
Streets: Twenty five feet (25').
         b.   In Front And Corner Side Yards Abutting Local Streets: Fifteen
feet (15').
         c.   Minimum Setback Along Any Property Line: Ten feet (10').
         d.   Internal Parking Setbacks From Buildings: A minimum of fifteen
feet (15') of landscaped area shall be provided around all principal buildings,
provided that where access is needed from parking or service areas, this number
may be reduced to zero.
      6.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   Principal Buildings: Maximum building height shall be one hundred
twenty five feet (125'), provided that for each foot in height over seventy
feet (70'), each required yard shall be increased one foot (1').
         b.   Accessory Buildings: Fifty feet (50'), provided that for each
foot the building exceeds thirty five feet (35') in height, each required yard
shall be increased one foot (1').
      7.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio: 1.0, including the floor area of all
principal and accessory buildings.
      8.   Required Space Between Buildings: Multiple buildings are permitted
on a lot, provided that the following spacing between buildings is provided:
         a.   Space Between Principal Buildings: Forty feet (40'), provided
that for each three feet (3') of height over seventy feet (70'), this space
shall be increased one foot (1').
         b.   Space Between Principal And Accessory Buildings: Twenty feet
(20'), provided that for each foot the accessory building exceeds twenty five
feet (25'), this space shall be increased one foot (1').
         c.   Space Between Accessory Buildings: Twenty feet (20').
      9.   Minimum Landscape Coverage: The minimum landscape coverage shall be
not less than thirty five percent (35%) of the lot area. (Ord. 93-09, 7-12-
1993)
   D.   Special Site Plan Review Authority: Given the unique nature of uses
within the gaming and docking use area, special site plan review approval shall
be required prior to the issuance of any permit or certificate. Application for
site plan approval shall be made to the village manager, who shall bring the
application before the planning and zoning commission for its review and
recommendation. The village board shall then render final review and approval
on the application. (Ord. 93-09, 7-12-1993; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
   E.   Business Operation Standards: No business shall be open to the public
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.,
seven (7) days a week, except that said standard shall not apply to automobile
service stations or hotel and motel complexes providing twenty four (24) hour a
day services. Further, that automatic operated devices, including specifically
cash station and other automatic cash machines provided in association with
banking and lending institutions, newspaper vending machines, and pop and food
vending machines, all used and operated as an accessory use to the principal
use as a business otherwise operating in this use area, should not be
considered in violation of the business operation standards as long as they are
fully automated and do not require attendant personnel between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 93-09, 7-12-1993)
10-7-6: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Given the mixed use nature and regional significance of development within the
SD district, special parking requirements are needed to respond to conditions
within the district. The following parking standards shall apply to development
within the SD district, taking precedent over the standards contained within
chapter 9 of this title.
Land Use Required Number Of Parking Spaces
Land Use                                Required Number Of Parking Spaces
                                        3 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
Automobile sales                        floor area of showroom area, plus 2
                                        spaces per service bay, if any
Community center                        1 space per 1,000 square feet, 1 space
                                        per 3 seats in auditorium
Convalescent homes/hospitals            1 space per 3 beds, plus 1 space per
                                        employee
Dance/music school                      1 space per employee, plus 1 space per
                                        3 students
                                        3 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                        floor area, plus 4 stacking spaces for
Financial institutions                  the first drive-up window and 2
                                        stacking spaces for each additional
                                        window
Government offices                      3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                        1 space per room, plus 1 space per
Hotel/motel                             maximum employee, plus additional
                                        parking for other uses
Library/art gallery                     2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Office, professional                    3 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Residential:
                                        1 space per studio and 1 bedroom unit;
 Multi-family                           2 spaces per unit with 2 or more
                                        bedrooms
 Single-family detached, two-family and 2 spaces
 attached single-family
Senior housing:
 Assisted living                        0.5 space per unit
                                        1 space per studio, 1 bedroom unit and
 Independent living                     2 bedroom unit; and 2 spaces per unit
                                        with 3 or more bedrooms
Theater                                 1 space per 3.5 seats
Trade/vocational school                 1 space per employee, plus 1 space per
                                        maximum student
 
(Ord. 93-09, 7-12-1993)
CHAPTER 8
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Objectives
10-8-3: Definitions
10-8-4: Density Transfer Subdivision
10-8-5: Standards For Planned Developments
10-8-6: Permitted Deviations From Requirements
10-8-7: Review Procedures
10-8-7-1: Preliminary Development Plan
10-8-7-2: Action On Preliminary Development Plan
10-8-7-3: Application For Approval Of Final Development Plan
10-8-7-4: Action On Final Plan
10-8-8: Failure To Begin Development
10-8-9: Amendments
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the planned development regulations is to encourage and allow
more creative and imaginative design for land developments than is possible
under district zoning regulations. The planned development also provides for
more efficient use of the land, and thus, results in more economical land
development. Preservation of natural site qualities, better urban amenities,
more open space, and a higher quality project are the expected results of the
planned development process.
The planned development is intended to provide for projects incorporating a
single type or a variety of related uses which are planned and developed as a
unit. The planned development should provide amenities not otherwise required
by law and often establishes facilities and open space greater than the minimum
required by law.
Such development may consist of conventionally subdivided lots to be sold,
unsubdivided single ownership, separate condominium ownership of structures, or
other ownership methods, and shall provide for development by means of a
planned development plat which establishes the location and extent of the
features of the planned development in keeping with the purposes of the plan.
The unique and substantially different character of planned developments
requires that they be classified as a "special use" specific requirements and
conditions which are established in the following provisions. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
10-8-2: OBJECTIVES:
The following objectives may be obtained through the use of the planned
development procedure:
   A.   To permit a maximum choice in the types of environment available to the
public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other sections of this chapter.
   B.   To promote a creative approach to the use of land and related physical
facilities that results in better design and development, with the inclusion of
aesthetic amenities.
   C.   To combine and coordinate architectural styles, building forms and
building relationships with a possible mixing of different urban uses in an
innovative design.
   D.   To encourage a pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation,
topographic, and geological features, and environmentally appropriate features.
   E.   To provide for the prevention and/or control of soil erosion, surface
flooding, and the preservation of subsurface water.
   F.   To create a method for the permanent preservation of common open space
for the continued use of the residents of the development and/or the general
public.
   G.   To provide for more usable and suitably located recreation facilities,
schools, municipal facilities, and other public and private facilities.
   H.   To promote the more efficient use of land resulting in more economic
networks of streets, utilities, and other facilities.
   I.   To encourage land use patterns which promote the public health, safety,
comfort, morals, and general welfare.
   J.   To create a method for the permanent preservation of architectural,
archeological, and/or historic landmarks. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
   COMMON OPEN SPACE: Open space pertains to the land with a development that
is devoid of structures other than recreational facilities and uses accessory
thereto and is suitable for active and passive recreational activities. Open
space specifically excludes parking lots, street rights of way, front, rear,
and side yard setbacks if buildings and lots are subdivided and individually
owned, school sites, and retention ponds, unless they are capable of sustaining
water based recreation.
   DENSITY TRANSFER SUBDIVISION: A density transfer subdivision is a
comprehensively planned single-family residential development in which dwelling
units are clustered at one or more locations, but where the overall density
does not exceed the maximum density permitted under the regulations for the
zoning district in which said subdivision is located. The remaining land
"saved" is devoted to common open space.
   A.   Active Open Space: An appropriately sized and usable open space area
capable of comfortably supporting one or more active recreational activities,
such as playgrounds, ball fields, tennis courts, swimming pools, and other
miscellaneous activities.
   B.   Passive Open Space: Open space that is incapable of comfortably
supporting active recreational activities due to its size, soil conditions,
slope or substantial vegetation. If there are two (2) or more owners, the
application for such planned development shall be filed jointly by all owners.
If the title is held in a trust the names of all beneficiaries shall be
disclosed in a sworn statement.
   MISCELLANEOUS CONDITIONS: To meet the unique circumstances presented by each
planned development and to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of
the existing village residents and the residents of the proposed development,
the village board reserves the right to attach any other conditions it deems
necessary, but not specifically provided herein, for all proposed planned
developments.
   OPEN SPACE OWNERSHIP: Prior to the final approval of any planned
development, the public or private ownership and maintenance responsibilities
shall be established by the village. Public ownership shall be either the
village or park district. Private ownership shall be a property owners'
association duly established by articles of incorporation and bylaws, in
accordance with the Illinois condominium property act. The instrument of
conveyance shall include restrictive covenants running with the land to
guarantee that the open space will be properly cared for and used only for
purposes designated in the approved final development plan. In the event that
any portion of the property shall be developed under the Illinois statutes
relating to condominiums, the condominium covenants, conditions and
restrictions shall include a provision whereby the village shall have the
right, but not the obligation, to enforce covenants or obligations of the
association or the owners of the units as defined and provided within the
declaration of condominium, and further shall have the right, upon thirty (30)
days' prior written notice specifying the nature of a default, to enter upon
common open spaces and cure such default, or cause the same to be cured at the
cost and expense of the association or the owner or owners thereof. The village
shall also have the right to charge or place a lien upon the property of the
condominium association for the repayment of such costs and expenses, including
reasonable attorney fees in enforcing such obligations. The declaration shall
further provide that this provision may not be amended without the approval of
the village. Prior to recording, the finalized declaration of condominium shall
be submitted to the village for their approval.
   TOTAL GROUND AREA OCCUPIED BY BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES: The total ground area
occupied by buildings and structures shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%)
of the total ground area of the planned development.
   USABLE COMMON OPEN SPACE: At least thirty percent (30%) of the net area of
every residential planned development shall be usable common open space.
"Usable" shall be defined as follows:
   A.   Parcel Size: Each parcel of common open space used for active
recreation shall be at least ten thousand (10,000) square feet with a minimum
dimension of fifty feet (50'). For trail purposes, the minimum dimension shall
be twenty feet (20').
   B.   Parcel Location: Each parcel must be highly accessible to all the
residents it is intended to serve. The parcels must be linked by
pedestrianways, bike paths or trails.
   C.   Water Coverage: Not more than thirty three percent (33%) of the land
designated as open space may be covered by water on a permanent basis. Open
space which is used for water drainage purposes shall not be considered for
active use.
   D.   Slope: Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the open space may have a
finished grade exceeding ten percent (10%). (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-8-4: DENSITY TRANSFER SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Districts Where Allowed: Density transfer subdivisions may be allowed
by special use permit only in the following zoning districts: RE-1, RE-2, R-1,
R-2.
   B.   Allowable Uses: Since a density transfer subdivision is simply a
special type of single-family, detached home development, the only uses that
may be developed therein are single-family detached dwellings, including zero
lot line homes, customary accessory uses and associated noncommercial uses as
permitted in the R-1 district.
   C.   Permitted Deviations From Requirements: Density transfer subdivisions
may deviate from the generally applicable requirements of the zoning ordinance
and the subdivision ordinance, but only as indicated in the subsections below.
Any other deviation shall require a variation.
      1.   Lot Size And Yards/Setbacks: Density transfer subdivisions may
deviate from the district lot area, width, depth, and yard setback requirements
in proportion to the amount of common open space incorporated into the
development plan and to the extent deemed reasonable under the circumstances by
the village.
      2.   Street Width: Density transfer subdivisions may deviate from the
standard street width specifications if adequate off street parking for
residents and guests is provided to the extent deemed reasonable under the
circumstances by the village.
      3.   Block Standards: Density transfer subdivisions may deviate from the
block standards outlined in the subdivision ordinance to the extent deemed
reasonable by the village.
      4.   Sidewalks: Density transfer subdivisions need not comply with the
full sidewalk requirements of the subdivision ordinance if alternate
pedestrianways and bicycle paths will be provided. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-8-5: STANDARDS FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Districts Where Allowed: Planned developments may be allowed by special
use permit in all zoning districts.
   B.   Allowable Uses: Planned developments are designed to permit a wide
variety of land use types, such as, single-family residential, multi-family
residential, office, retail commercial, and industrial uses in an appropriate
development plan that is in accordance with the comprehensive plan of the
village.
   C.   Building Location: No building may be closer to an adjacent building or
an exterior lot line than the distance equaling the height of the taller of the
two (2) buildings.
   D.   Landscaped Buffer Areas: There shall be a landscaped buffer area of not
less than thirty five feet (35') wide whenever a residential land use abuts an
office, retail commercial or industrial land use. Said landscaped buffer area
may contain a pedestrianway or bicycle path, but must be adequately landscaped
as per the landscaping standards of the village or screened if off street
parking areas are involved.
   E.   Density Ranges: Density ranges shall be calculated on the gross acreage
of the site within the following ranges:
      1.   One to four (4) single-family with a base density of one unit per
acre and with the incentives listed in subsection F of this section, shall not
exceed four (4) units per acre.
      2.   Four (4) to six (6) single-family with a base density of four (4)
units per acre and with using the incentives listed in subsection F of this
section, shall not exceed six (6) units per acre.
      3.   Seven (7) to ten (10) multiple-family with a base density of seven
(7) units per acre and with using the incentives listed in subsection F of this
section, shall not exceed ten (10) units per acre.
      4.   Ten (10) to thirteen (13) multiple-family with a base density of ten
(10) units per acre and with using the incentives listed in subsection F of
this section, shall not exceed thirteen (13) units per acre.
   F.   Incentives: To encourage excellence in design the following incentives
are provided:
                                        1 percent for each 10 feet in width
                                        (excluding setback requirements as
Landscaped buffer strip                 hereinafter set forth), not to exceed 3
                                        percent on all peripheral lot lines
                                        with a less restricted use
Playground and recreational equipment   1 percent for each 8,000 square foot
(other than tennis courts and swimming  lot not to exceed 3 percent
pools)
                                        Provision of 50 percent of all required
Underground or enclosed parking         parking to be underground or enclosed
                                        (multiple-family only)
                                        1 percent of the gross area of the site
                                        built as one-family detached dwellings
                                        at a density not to exceed 4 units to
Single-family detached dwelling density the acre, a 1 percent incentive will be
                                        allowed not to exceed the maximum
                                        density allowed within the density
                                        range
                                        3 percent excellence in quality and
Tree and shrub planting                 amount of standard tree and shrub
                                        planting, including peripheral and
                                        interior screen planting and fencing
Swimming pool                           5 percent for each pool not to exceed
                                        10 percent
Tennis courts                           1 percent for each court not to exceed
                                        5 percent
Community center and/or club building   5 percent
Lakes and water features                3 percent
                                        3 percent provisions for pedestrian
Pedestrian facilities                   facilities such as plazas, trails,
                                        bicycle trails, interior sidewalks and
                                        benches
                                        1 percent use of sculptures, fountains,
Sculptures, fountains                   reflecting pools and similar features
                                        in design
Parking lot design                      2 percent which includes tree and shrub
                                        plantings
 
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-8-6: PERMITTED DEVIATIONS FROM REQUIREMENTS:
The planned development concept is intended to afford both the developer and
the municipality considerable flexibility in formulating major development
proposals. Thus, PUDs are not strictly bound by the use and density regulations
of a particular zoning district to the extent indicated below, provided that a
PUD must be consistent with the comprehensive plan. Any other deviation, over
and above, those outlined in the planned development section shall require a
separate zoning or subdivision ordinance variance.
   A.   Lot Size And Yard/Setbacks: Same as in subsection
 10-8-4C1 of this chapter.
   B.   Street Width: Same as in subsection
10-8-4C2 of this chapter.
   C.   Block Standards: Same as in subsection
 10-8-4C3 of this chapter.
   D.   Sidewalks: Same as in subsection
10-8-4C4 of this chapter.
   E.   Location Of Parking/Loading Spaces: Required off street parking spaces
for residential uses with PUDs need not be situated on individual lots, but may
be clustered, provided that no building containing dwelling units is more than
two hundred feet (200') from a parking area serving the building. In addition,
parking areas serving residential uses shall not be shared with any other land
use except for recreational facilities.
   F.   Height: Buildings in a PUD may deviate from the height restrictions
outlined in the zoning ordinance by twenty five percent (25%) or ten feet
(10'), whichever is less. In addition, buildings with required parking spaces
beneath the main building may exceed the height requirement by twenty feet
(20'). (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-8-7: REVIEW PROCEDURES:
10-8-7-1: PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
An applicant seeking the establishment of a planned development shall prepare
and submit for planning and zoning commission review a preliminary development
plan containing the following documents and information: (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989;
amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
   A.   Site Description: Legal description of the site, its gross acreage and
the proposed name for the development.
   B.   Names And Addresses Of Owners: Names and addresses of all owners of
property within the proposed planned development.
   C.   Planning Objectives: Narrative statement of the planning objectives met
by the proposed planned development including a description of its character,
the rationale behind the concept, and how it fits in with the comprehensive
land use plan of the village.
   D.   Development Schedule: Development schedule indicating the approximate
date when construction of the planned development or its various stages can be
expected to begin and be completed.
   E.   Traffic Facilities: General analysis of the impact of the development
on traffic facilities.
   F.   Municipal Utilities: General analysis of the impact of the development
on municipal utilities.
   G.   Data Sheet: Data sheet containing the following:
      1.   Net acreage devoted to each proposed land use type including parks,
open space, and streets.
      2.   Total number and types of proposed dwelling units including square
footage and bedroom mix.
      3.   Estimated selling price of dwelling units, if applicable, and
pertinent market data as to the economical need for each proposed land use
type.
      4.   Estimated population by housing type broken into elementary school,
middle school, high school and adult groupings.
   H.   Graphic Materials: Graphic materials containing the following data on
existing conditions (on and within 200 feet of the tract). Maps shall be at a
scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') unless the village
determines that this scale is unworkable for the proposed planned development:
      1.   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet (2') with reference to USGS datum, except in unusual
topographic conditions when such vertical intervals may be required to be
altered as determined by the village.
      2.   Soil types, as outlined by a soil scientist.
      3.   Other natural features such as source of water supply, water courses
(with highest flood levels indicated), marshes, ponds, springs, rock outcrop,
wooded areas, isolated preservable trees six inches (6") or more in caliper at
one foot (1') above ground level, and other features.
      4.   Existing improvements, including the location, widths and names of
all existing or previously platted streets or other rights of way showing type
of improvement (if any), railroad and utility rights of way, parks and other
public open spaces, buildings and structures, historic sites and landmarks.
      5.   Existing improvements, including the location, capacity, and size of
domestic water supply, water mains, sewer lines, culverts, drainage or farm
tile, towers, poles, and other underground and aboveground facilities, also
indicating such data as locations and surface and invert grade elevations of
catch basins, manholes and fire hydrants. If water mains and sewers are not on
or adjacent to the tract, indicate the direction and distance to, and the size
of nearest usable facilities. (If requested, additional drawings, maps or
photographs shall be submitted in order to accurately locate existing
features.)
      6.   Easements, including location width and purpose.
      7.   Political boundaries, including corporate limits, school, park and
fire protection district boundaries and national and local historic district
boundaries.
   I.   Design Features: Proposed planned development design features:
      1.   Proposed zoning.
      2.   Layout of streets, including right of way widths, street names (not
duplicating or similar to the name of any street heretofore used in Dundee
Township unless such street is an extension or in line with an already named
street in which event the name shall be used), and proposed through streets
extended to the boundaries of the subdivision and approximate grades and
gradients.
      3.   Other rights of way, including location and width of alleys,
pedestrianways, bike paths, drainageways and utility and other easements.
      4.   Lots, including layout, number, dimension and area (in square feet),
for each lot in the subdivision.
      5.   Setback lines, including front and side street building setback
lines and dimensions if applicable.
      6.   Location of utilities, including proposed method of sewage and waste
disposal and location of sewer lines, water mains, stormwater drains and
surface drainage for each lot or building area, and method of stormwater
detention and retention. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
      7.   When required by the planning and zoning commission, the applicant
shall submit detailed grading plans of blocks and lots. No land will be
approved for subdivision which is subject to periodic flooding or which
contains inadequate drainage facilities or other topographic and soil
conditions which may increase danger to health or property, or aggravate
erosion or flood hazard unless the subdivider agrees to make improvements which
will make such land safe for development and occupancy. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989;
amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
      8.   Sites intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use or set
aside for use of property owners in the subdivision including the conditions,
if any, of such dedication or reservation.
   J.   Miscellaneous Information: Miscellaneous information required as
follows:
      1.   Draft of proposed annexation agreement, if applicable.
      2.   Architectural elevations for all residential planned developments
except the single-family detached portions thereof.
      3.   General landscape plan indicating the treatment of common open
spaces and the location of required buffer areas.
      4.   A list of requested variations from the standard zoning regulations
for each land use type.
      5.   Any additional information required by the village to evaluate the
character and impact of the proposed planned development. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
   K.   Meeting Date And Filing Fee: Upon receipt of all the required data and
the payment of a planned development filing fee of two hundred dollars
($200.00), the application shall be considered filed and a meeting of the
planning and zoning commission be scheduled not less than ten (10) nor more
than thirty (30) days after the completed data submission. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
10-8-7-2: ACTION ON PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Hearing, Findings And Recommendation Of Planning And Zoning Commission:
The planning and zoning commission shall, within sixty (60) days after a
preliminary development plan is filed with it, hold a public hearing on the
preliminary development plan. Such public hearing shall consider all aspects of
the preliminary development plan including all proposed stages and/or units of
development. Within thirty (30) days after the last public hearing on such
plan, the planning and zoning commission shall prepare and transmit to the
village board and to the applicant specific findings of fact with respect to
the extent to which the preliminary development plan complies with the
standards set out in this chapter, together with its recommendations to the
village board with respect to the action to be taken on the preliminary
development plan. The planning and zoning commission may recommend approval,
disapproval or approval with amendments, conditions or restrictions. Copies of
their findings and recommendations shall be made available to any other
interested persons.
   B.   Action By The Board: The village board shall approve, approve with
conditions, or disapprove the preliminary development plan within sixty (60)
days after it receives the findings and recommendations of the planning and
zoning commission unless extended by mutual consent of the village board and
applicant. Approval of the preliminary development plan does not constitute
acceptance of the planned development. Approval of the preliminary development
plan shall remain in effect for a period of twelve (12) months, after which it
will become null and void unless a final development plan has been approved.
The village board may extend the time period, but said twelve (12) month period
shall not exceed five (5) years. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-
19-2014)
10-8-7-3: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Filing Of Final Development Plan: An application for approval of a
final development plan may be filed for all the land included in a planned
development or for a state or unit thereof. Such application shall be filed by
the developer with the planning and zoning commission within the time specified
in subsection
10-8-7-2A of this chapter and shall be in substantial compliance with the
preliminary development plan as approved. The application shall include: (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
      1.   Detailed engineering plans and specifications for land grading, site
preparation, streets, utilities, drainage, and any other requirements of the
village's subdivision regulations on an acceptable reproducible material.
      2.   Final development plan information on acceptable reproducible
material:
         a.   Date of preparation of the final development plan and by whom
prepared.
         b.   Seal and certification of land surveyor.
         c.   Scale shall be one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or
the same scale used on the preliminary development plan.
         d.   North point.
         e.   Legal description.
         f.   Layout of streets, showing right of way widths, street names and
the length of all streets as measured at the centerline, and the location and
widths of all cross walkways. The location, right of way widths and names of
all streets adjoining the plat shall also be shown.
         g.   All easements established for public use and utility rights of
way, with approval of the utility companies marked on the plat.
         h.   All block and lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions
given in hundredths of feet.
         i.   Proposed building setback lines on all lots and other sites.
         j.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of all areas dedicated
or reserved for public use, with the deed to be transferred included; and all
areas to be reserved by deed covenant for the common use of all property
owners, together with the proposed uses indicated thereon.
         k.   Water elevations of all lakes and streams, within or adjoining
the tract, at the date of survey and the approximate high and low water
elevations of such lakes or streams. All elevations shall be referred
approximately to USGS datum. If the subdivision borders on a lake or stream,
the distances and bearing of a meander line established not less than twenty
feet (20') back from the average high water mark of the lake or stream, as
determined from flood hazard maps or other data, with said distances noted.
         l.   Accurate angular and linear dimensions for all lines, angles,
radii, and arcs used to describe all boundaries including perimeter survey of
tract, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved or dedicated for public
use, and other important features. Error of closure of boundary line surveys
shall not exceed one in ten thousand (1 foot for each 10,000 feet of perimeter
survey). Angular error shall not exceed plus or minus twenty (±20) seconds.
         m.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines
and official monuments (not less than 3), which shall be accurately described
in the plat by location, size and elevation, to which all dimensions, angles,
bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referred.
         n.   Municipal, township, county and section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
         o.   Certificates and signature blocks as required by statute.
         p.   Additional required documents:
            (1)   Proof that the developer has acquired legal title to all land
within the planned development or is the contract purchaser of the property.
            (2)   Articles of incorporation and bylaws for any property owners'
association to be established.
            (3)   Restrictive covenants and other legal instruments deemed
necessary to guarantee the proper upkeep and use of the common open space and
recreational facilities therein.
            (4)   Restrictive covenants whereby the owner proposes to regulate
and maintain land uses in general and otherwise protect the proposed
development. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-8-7-4: ACTION ON FINAL PLAN:
   A.   Planning And Zoning Commission: A development plan submitted for final
approval shall be deemed to be in substantial compliance with the preliminary
plan, as approved, provided any modification by the developer of the
preliminary plan, as approved, does not involve a reduction of the area set
aside for common open space, increase by more than five percent (5%) the floor
area proposed for nonresidential use; nor increase by more than five percent
(5%) the total ground area covered by buildings. A public hearing shall not be
held to consider modifications in the location and design of streets or
facilities for water and for disposal of stormwater, stormwater detention and
retention facilities, and sanitary sewerage unless so required by the planning
and zoning commission.
Although a public hearing shall not be held on an application for approval of a
final development plan when said plan, as submitted for final approval, is in
substantial compliance with the preliminary plan, as approved, the burden shall
nevertheless be upon the developer to show the planning and zoning commission
good cause for any variation between the preliminary plan, as approved, and the
final plan as submitted. In the event a public hearing is not required for
final approval, and the application for final approval has been filed, together
with all drawings, specifications and other documents required in support
thereof the planning and zoning commission shall, within thirty (30) days of
such filing, grant such plan final approval; provided, however, that, in the
event the final plan as submitted contains variations from the preliminary
plan, as approved, but remains in substantial compliance with the preliminary
plan, as approved, the planning and zoning commission may, after a meeting with
the developer, refuse to approve the final plan and shall, within thirty (30)
days from the filing of the application for final approval, so advise the
developer in writing of such refusal, setting out the reasons why one or more
of said variations are not in the public interest. In the event of such
refusal, the developer may refile his application for final approval without
the variations objected to by the planning and zoning commission at any time
within which he shall be entitled to apply for final approval shall have
expired at the time when the planning and zoning commission advised the
developer that the variations were not in the public interest, then the
developer shall have sixty (60) additional days within which to refile his
application for final approval without the said variation. If the developer
shall fail to refile within said period, he shall be deemed to have refused to
accept such requirements and final approval shall be deemed to have been
denied.
In the event the final development plan, as submitted for approval, is not in
substantial compliance with the preliminary plan, as approved, the planning and
zoning commission shall, within thirty (30) days of the date the application
for approval of the final plat is filed, so notify the developer in writing,
setting out the particular ways in which the final plan is not in substantial
compliance with the preliminary plan, as approved. The developer may make such
changes in the final plan as are necessary to bring it into compliance with the
preliminary plan, or he may file a written request with the planning and zoning
commission that it hold a public hearing on his application for final approval.
The developer may take either such alternate action at any time within which he
would be entitled to apply for final approval, or within sixty (60) additional
days if the time for applying for final approval shall have expired at the time
when the planning and zoning commission advised the developer that the final
plan was not in substantial compliance. In the event the developer shall fail
to take either of these alternate actions within said time, he shall be deemed
to have abandoned the plan. Such public hearing shall be held, notice thereof
shall be given, and the hearing shall be conducted.
   B.   Village Board: The village board shall approve, approve with conditions
or disapprove the proposed final development plan within sixty (60) days after
receiving findings and recommendations from the planning and zoning commission.
Approval of the final development plan shall not constitute a waiver of the
requirement to obtain building permits, utility tap on permits, occupancy
permits, and shall not constitute acceptance of the required improvements by
the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
10-8-8: FAILURE TO BEGIN DEVELOPMENT:
If a substantial amount of construction has not begun prior to the first
anniversary of the final development plan approval, the final development plan
shall lapse upon written notice to the applicant from the village board, and
shall be of no further effect. However, in its discretion and for good cause,
the village board may extend for a reasonable time the period for beginning
construction. If a final development plan for a planned development lapses as
per this section: (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   A.   After a public hearing before the planning and zoning commission, the
village board may revoke the special use permit. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd.
Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
   B.   If the special use permit is revoked then any building permit shall
automatically become null and void.
   C.   Without a special use permit, any variations granted to the planned
development in the final development plan shall automatically become null and
void. The lots and buildings shall be made to conform to the regulations
applicable in the underlying zoning districts. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-8-9: AMENDMENTS:
A preliminary or final development plan may be amended by the village board,
but only after a public hearing has been held and the findings of fact and
recommendations have been prepared by the planning and zoning commission and
transmitted to the village board pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 9
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-9-1: Off Street Parking
10-9-1-1: General Purpose
10-9-1-2: General Regulations
10-9-1-3: Location Of Off Street Parking Spaces
10-9-1-4: Parking Space/Aisle Dimensions
10-9-1-5: Driveway Curb Cut
10-9-1-6: Parking Lot Design And Maintenance Standards
10-9-1-7: Handicapped Parking Spaces
10-9-1-8: Required Off Street Parking Spaces
10-9-2: Off Street Loading
10-9-2-1: General Purpose
10-9-2-2: General Requirements
10-9-2-3: Location Of Off Street Loading Areas
10-9-2-4: Loading Space Design And Maintenance Standards
10-9-2-5: Required Off Street Loading Area Formula
10-9-1: OFF STREET PARKING:
10-9-1-1: GENERAL PURPOSE:
The off street parking regulations are designed to promote traffic safety and
an orderly traffic flow without congestion on the public streets. In addition,
cars shall be parked off street in such a manner as to promote smooth internal
traffic circulation without placing a burden on adjacent properties. (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989)
10-9-1-2: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Off Street Parking Required: Every land use shall provide the number of
off street parking spaces as specified in section
10-9-1-8 of this chapter, unless otherwise provided for elsewhere within this
chapter. Such required off street parking spaces approximate the parking demand
generated by each land use.
   B.   Accessory Use: All off street parking spaces and lots shall be
considered as accessory uses to the principal land use.
   C.   Additions/Alterations/Change In Use: Whenever a land use is expanded,
altered, or changed in such a manner as to increase the number of required off
street parking spaces as specified in section
 10-9-1-8 of this chapter the expanded, altered or changed use shall provide
the appropriate additional off street parking spaces, except where otherwise
provided elsewhere within this chapter.
   D.   Computation: When determination of the required number of off street
parking spaces results in a fraction of a parking space, the fraction shall be
rounded to the nearest whole number of parking spaces.
   E.   Garage And Enclosed Parking Spaces: Garage and other enclosed off
street parking spaces may be included toward meeting the off street parking
requirement for a land use provided that such spaces have clear access to the
public street and are not occupied by trailers or miscellaneous storage items.
This clear access provision does not apply to single-family detached
residential districts.
   F.   Repair And Service: No commercial motor vehicle repair work of any kind
shall be permitted in off street parking lots. Gasoline, motor oil and any
other automotive product shall not be sold from an off street parking lot
except in conjunction with a bona fide automobile service station.
   G.   Off Site Employee Parking: Each business utilizing off site employees
shall provide one off street parking space for each off site employee. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-9-1-3: LOCATION OF OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
   A.   On Site Parking: All required off street parking spaces shall be
located upon the same zoning lot as the land use served except in the B-
1 downtown business district as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   B-1 District Off Site Parking: Land uses within the B-1 district may
have their required off street parking spaces off site provided that:
      1.   Such off site, off street parking spaces are located within three
hundred feet (300') walking distance from the main entrance of the land use
served; and
      2.   That the land use served has a long term lease for such required off
street parking spaces from a donor land use that maintains more than the
required number of off street parking spaces for the donor's use.
   C.   Parking Space/Aisle Setback: All off street parking spaces/aisles or
interior driveways shall be set back according to the following standards:
      1.   In all single-family detached residential districts and any multi-
family district where the multi-family building has an attached garage, off
street parking shall be permitted in either the front or side yard provided
that the off street parking occurs on a driveway perpendicular to the public
street leading to a garage or the property.
      2.   In all business, office, industrial districts and multi-family
districts where the multi-family building does not have an attached garage, no
off street parking space, parking aisle or interior driveway shall be located
within ten feet (10') from the front property line nor within five feet (5')
from any side property line or rear property line, except in the B-1 downtown
business district or where otherwise provided elsewhere in this chapter. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-9-1-4: PARKING SPACE/AISLE DIMENSIONS:
   A.   Parking Space Size: A required off street parking space shall be at
least nine feet (9') in width and at least nineteen feet (19') in length,
including bumper overhang of a continuous concrete curb/wheel stop. Handicapped
parking spaces shall be at least twelve feet (12') in width and at least
nineteen feet (19') in length. Each parking space shall have a vertical
clearance of at least seven feet (7').
   B.   Parking Aisle Width: The required minimum parking aisle width shall be
a function of the parking space angle and whether the aisle allows one-way or
two-way traffic and shall be determined according to the following table:
   Minimum Parking Aisle Width (In Feet)
 
Traffic Type Parking Space Angle Degrees    
            90 60 45 30 Parallel
One-way      24 20 18 16 12
Two-way      24 -  -  -  22
 
Note: A parking space angle of 60, 45, or 30 degrees in a two-way traffic aisle
shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-9-1-5: DRIVEWAY CURB CUT:
No private driveway/curb cut opening to a public street shall exceed twenty
four feet (24') in width at the property line. Appropriate curb radii shall be
required by the village. Divided driveway with landscaped medians that exceed
twenty four feet (24') in width must be submitted to the village board for
approval. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-9-1-6: PARKING LOT DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Parking Space Access: Each required off street parking space shall open
directly upon a parking aisle or driveway of such design as to provide a safe
and efficient means of vehicle access to such parking space.
   B.   Surfacing: All open off street parking areas for commercial,
industrial, and multi-family districts shall be improved with a compacted
gravel or stone base and surfaced with bituminous asphalt or reinforced
concrete as provided in the approved manual of practice (engineering
specifications).
   C.   Drainage: All off street parking lots containing ten (10) or more cars
shall provide positive on site storm water detention and/or ground water
aquifer recharge where soil conditions are suitable. Such storm water drainage
and detention plans must be approved by the village engineer.
   D.   Lighting: All off street parking lots containing ten (10) or more cars
shall provide adequate parking lot lighting. No light standard shall exceed
thirty feet (30') in height.
      1.   Commercial: All commercial or industrial parking lot lighting that
is within one hundred fifty feet (150') of residential property shall use a
shielded light source that shall not emit light at an angle greater than forty
five degrees (45°) from the vertical. All parking lot lighting shall be
extinguished no later than thirty (30) minutes after the close of the use being
served, except as may otherwise be deemed security lighting.
      2.   Residential: All residential parking lot lighting shall use a
shielded light source that shall not emit light at an angle greater than forty
five degrees (45°) from the vertical. Only security lighting may be on all
night.
   E.   Screening: All open, off street parking areas containing five (5) or
more parking spaces shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or
fronting any residential property or any institutional property by a well
maintained, solid wall, fence, berm or a densely planted compact evergreen
hedge not less than five feet (5') high. Hedges must have bushes planted not
more than two and one-half feet (21/2') centerline to centerline.
   F.   Landscaping:
      1.   All nonresidential parking lot setback areas that are not subject to
the screening provisions of subsection E of this section shall be landscaped in
such a manner as to not obstruct sightlines and according to the following
landscape schedule for each one hundred (100) linear feet visible to the public
right of way:
 
2 approved urban shade trees 3 inch diameter
2 small ornamental trees     5 to 6 feet high
3 evergreen trees            3 to 4 feet high
6 small bushes
 
      2.   All off street parking lots designed to contain twenty (20) or more
cars shall submit a parking lot landscaping plan to the village for approval.
The landscaping standard shall be one 200-square foot nonperimeter planting
island improved with one 3-inch diameter shade tree and five (5) small bushes
for each twenty (20) parking spaces.
   G.   Sweeping: Each off street parking lot containing fifty (50) or more
parking spaces shall be periodically swept or vacuumed to remove dirt, litter,
glass, oil, and exhaust emission byproducts so that these items are not washed
into the storm water system or clog storm sewer inlets.
   H.   Striping: Each off street parking lot containing five (5) or more
parking spaces shall be appropriately striped to conform with the village's
parking space size dimensions. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-9-1-7: HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES:
Each off street parking lot containing ten (10) or more parking spaces shall
provide handicapped parking spaces, suitably striped and signed, according to
the following formula:
 
10 – 25 parking spaces1 handicapped parking space
26 – 50 parking spaces2 handicapped parking spaces
51 – 75 parking spaces3 handicapped parking spaces
76 – 100 parking space4 handicapped parking spaces
101 + parking spaces    4 handicapped parking spaces plus 1 additional space
                        for every 100 parking spaces above 101 spaces
 
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-9-1-8: REQUIRED OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
Uses Required Parking Formula
Uses                           Required Parking Formula
Industrial
                               1 space per employee as related uses to the
Manufacturing/assembly         working period when the maximum number of
                               employees are employed on the premises
Warehouse/storage uses         Same as manufacturing
Institution and miscellaneous
Auditoriums/gyms               1 space for every 4 seats or parking equal to 25
                               percent of capacity
Churches                       1 space for every 4 seats
Daycare center                 1 space for every 5 children capacity
Elementary school              2 spaces per classroom
Funeral homes                  15 spaces per chapel
Museums and libraries          1 space per 500 square feet of floor area
Nursing home                   1 space for every 3 beds
Office
Banks and savings and loans    1 space per 200 square feet of floor area plus 5
                               stacking spaces per drive-up teller
Doctor/dentist office          3 spaces for each examining treatment room
General office use             1 space per 250 square feet of floor space
Residential
                               2 spaces per dwelling unit plus 3 parking spaces
Multiple-family buildings      for each multiple of 7 units in a building to be
                               used for guest parking
Single-family detached home    2 spaces per unit
Retail
Furniture/appliance store      1 space per 600 square feet of showroom floor
                               area
General retail use             1 space per 200 square feet of floor area
                               1 space per 200 square feet for the first 1,000
Motor vehicle sales            square feet of showroom floor area plus 1 space
                               per 1,000 square feet thereafter
Restaurant/tavern              1 space for every 3 seats
Service/entertainment
                               4 stacking spaces per gasoline lane plus 2
Auto service station           spaces per service stall plus 1 space per
                               employee
Banquet halls/event facilities 1 space per 200 square feet of floor area
Barber/beauty salons           3 spaces per chair
Bowling alley                  5 spaces per alley plus 1 space for every 3
                               seats of accessory restaurant lounge use
Hotel/motel                    1 space per room plus 1 space for every 3 seats
                               of accessory restaurant lounge use
Indoor theater                 1 space for every 4 seats
Other                          Parking spaces on the same basis as required
                               herein for the most similar use as determined
 
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 20-20, 6-15-2020; Ord. 2022-06, 3-7-2022)
10-9-2: OFF STREET LOADING:
10-9-2-1: GENERAL PURPOSE:
The off street loading regulations are designed to promote safe and efficient
loading operations for all land uses requiring truck deliveries. In addition,
such off street loading areas shall be located to minimize traffic disruption
due to loading operations. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-9-2-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Off Street Loading Space Required: Every land use that contains over
five thousand (5,000) square feet of building areas and requires the receipt or
distribution of materials or merchandise by truck shall provide off street
loading areas meeting the minimum requirements of this section.
   B.   Accessory Use: All off street loading areas shall be considered as
accessory uses to the principal land use.
   C.   Repair And Storage: No motor vehicle repair work or outdoor storage of
any kind shall be permitted within any required off street loading area. (Ord.
89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-9-2-3: LOCATION OF OFF STREET LOADING AREAS:
   A.   On Site Loading: All required off street loading areas shall be located
upon the same lot as the land use served, except in the B-1 downtown business
district where the entire lot is covered by a building as provided in
subsection B of this section.
   B.   B-1 District Off Site Loading: Land uses within the B-1 district may
have their required off street loading area off site provided that:
      1.   Such off site, off street loading area is immediately adjacent to
the land use served; and
      2.   Does not interfere with other off street parking or loading areas.
      3.   That the land use served has a long term lease for such required off
street loading areas from an adjacent, donor land use that either jointly
shares the use of the off street loading area or has ample room to operate an
additional off street loading area.
   C.   Loading Area Setback: All off street loading spaces shall be set back
according to the following standards:
      1.   No off street loading area shall be located closer than one hundred
feet (100') from any residential district.
      2.   No off street loading area shall be located within a required front
or side yard. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-9-2-4: LOADING SPACE DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Loading Area Dimensions: A required off street loading area shall be at
least ten feet (10') in width by at least fifty feet (50') in length, exclusive
of aisle and maneuvering space. Each loading space shall have a clearance of at
least fourteen feet (14').
   B.   Loading Space Access: Each required off street loading shall open
directly upon a parking aisle, driveway or alley of such design as to minimize
interference with traffic movements.
   C.   Surfacing: All open, off street loading spaces shall be improved with a
compacted gravel or stone base and surfaced with bituminous asphalt or
reinforced concrete as provided in the approved manual of practice (engineering
specifications).
   D.   Screening: All open, off street loading spaces shall be effectively
screened on each side adjoining or fronting any residential district or any
institutional property by a solid wall, fence and/or evergreen landscaping not
less than ten feet (10') high. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-9-2-5: REQUIRED OFF STREET LOADING AREA FORMULA:
All land uses required to provide off street loading space(s) shall do so
according to the following formula based upon the floor area of the building:
 
5,000 – 20,000 square fee1 off street loading space
20,001– 40,000 square fee2 off street loading spaces
40,001– 60,000 square fee3 off street loading spaces
60,001 + square feet       3 off street loading spaces plus 1 additional space
                           for each additional 40,000 square feet
 
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 10
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose
10-10-2: Definitions
10-10-3: Applicability
10-10-4: General Requirements
10-10-5: Permitted Uses
10-10-6: Administratively Approved Uses
10-10-7: Special Use Permits
10-10-8: Buildings And Other Equipment Storage
10-10-9: Removal Of Abandoned Antennas And Towers
10-10-10: Nonconforming Uses
10-10-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide specific regulations for the
placement, construction and modification of personal wireless service
facilities. The provisions of this chapter are not intended to and shall not be
interpreted to prohibit or to have the effect of prohibiting the provision of
personal wireless services, nor shall the provisions of this chapter be applied
in such a manner as to unreasonably discriminate between providers of
functionally equivalent personal wireless services. To the extent that any
provision or provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with or in conflict
with any other provision of this code or any ordinance of the village, the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to control. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
   B.   In the course of reviewing any request for any approval required under
this chapter made by an applicant to provide personal wireless services or to
install personal wireless service facilities, the planning and zoning
commission or the village board, as the case may be, shall act within a
reasonable period of time after the request is duly filed with the village,
taking into account the nature and scope of the request. Any decision to deny
such a request shall be in writing and supported by substantial evidence
contained in a written record. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-
19-2014)
   C.   The purpose of this chapter is to also establish general guidelines for
the siting of wireless communications towers and antennas. The goals of this
chapter are to:
      1.   Protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers and antennas;
      2.   Encourage the location of towers in nonresidential areas;
      3.   Minimize the total number of towers throughout the community;
      4.   Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites as
a primary option rather than construction of additional single use towers;
      5.   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the extent
possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
      6.   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas through
careful design, siting, landscape screening, and innovative camouflaging
techniques;
      7.   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services
to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively, and
efficiently;
      8.   Consider the public health and safety of communication towers; and
      9.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through engineering and careful siting of tower structures.
In furtherance of these goals, the village shall give due consideration to the
village's comprehensive land use plan, zoning map, existing land uses, and
environmentally sensitive areas in approving sites for the location of towers
and antennas. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
10-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below:
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE: Manmade trees, clock towers, bell steeples,
light poles and similar alternative design mounting structures that camouflage
or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   ANTENNA: Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals.
   BACKHAUL NETWORK: The lines that connect a provider's towers/cell sites to
one or more cellular telephone switching offices, and/or long distance
providers, or the public switched telephone network.
   FAA: The federal aviation administration.
   FCC: The federal communications commission.
   HEIGHT: When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured
from the finished grade of the parcel to the highest point on the tower or
other structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
   PREEXISTING TOWERS AND PREEXISTING ANTENNAS: Any tower or antenna for which
a building permit or special use permit has been properly issued prior to the
effective date of this chapter, including permitted towers or antennas that
have not yet been constructed so long as such approval is current and not
expired.
   TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas for telephone, radio and similar
communication purposes, including self- supporting lattice towers, guyed
towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission
towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers,
alternative tower structures, and the like. The term includes the structure and
any support thereto. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
10-10-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   New Towers And Antennas: All new towers or antennas in the village
shall be subject to these regulations, except as provided in subsections B
through D of this section, inclusive.
   B.   Amateur Radio Station Operators/Receive Only Antennas: This chapter
shall not govern any tower, or the installation of any antenna, that is under
seventy feet (70') in height and is owned and operated by a federally licensed
amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive only
antennas. Said antennas are governed by section
10-3-14 of this title.
   C.   Preexisting Towers Or Antennas: Preexisting towers and preexisting
antennas shall not be required to meet the requirements of this chapter other
than the requirements of subsections
10-10-4F and G of this chapter.
   D.   AM Array: For purposes of implementing this chapter, an AM array,
consisting of one or more tower units and supporting ground system which
functions as one AM broadcasting antenna, shall be considered one tower.
Measurements for setbacks and separation distances shall be measured from the
outer perimeter of the towers included in the AM array. Additional tower units
may be added within the perimeter of the AM array by right. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-
1997)
10-10-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Principal Or Accessory Use: Antennas and towers may be considered
either principal or accessory uses. A different existing use of an existing
structure on the same lot shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or
tower on such lot.
   B.   Lot Size: For purposes of determining whether the installation of a
tower or antenna complies with district development regulations, including, but
not limited to, setback requirements, lot coverage requirements, and other such
requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the
antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within such lot.
   C.   Inventory Of Existing Sites: Each applicant for an antenna and/or tower
shall provide to the building commissioner an inventory of its existing towers,
antennas, or sites approved for towers or antennas, that are either within the
jurisdiction of the village or within one mile of the border thereof, including
specific information about the location, height, and design of each tower. The
building commissioner may share such information with other applicants applying
for administrative approvals or special use permits under this chapter or other
organizations seeking to locate antennas within the jurisdiction of the
village, provided, however that the building commissioner is not, by sharing
such information, in any way representing or warranting that such sites are
available or suitable.
   D.   Aesthetics: Towers and antennas shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject
to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness.
      2.   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and
landscaping that will blend them into the natural setting and surrounding
buildings.
      3.   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
      4.   Barbed or razor wire shall not be permitted.
   E.   Lighting: Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by
the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the lighting
alternatives and design chosen must cause the least disturbance to the
surrounding views.
   F.   State Or Federal Requirements: All towers must meet or exceed current
standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the
state or federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas.
If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers
and antennas governed by this chapter shall bring such towers and antennas into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six (6) months of
the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a different
compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal agency.
Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower
or antenna at the owner's expense.
   G.   Building Codes; Safety Standards: To ensure the structural integrity of
towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance
with standards contained in applicable state or local building codes and the
applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic Industries
Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the village
concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards and
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to
the owner of the tower, the owner shall have thirty (30) days to bring such
tower into compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such tower into
compliance within said thirty (30) days shall constitute grounds for the
removal of the tower or antenna at the owner's expense.
   H.   Measurement: For purposes of measurement, tower setbacks and separation
distances shall be calculated and applied to facilities located in the village
irrespective of municipal and county jurisdictional boundaries.
   I.   Not Essential Services: Towers and antennas shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to this chapter and shall not be regulated or permitted as
essential services, public utilities, or private utilities.
   J.   Franchises: Owners and/or operators of towers or antennas shall certify
that all franchises required by law for the construction and/or operation of a
wireless communication system in the village have been obtained and shall file
a copy of all required franchises with the building commissioner.
   K.   Public Notice: For purposes of this chapter, any special use request,
variance request, or appeal of an administratively approved use or special use
shall require public notice to all abutting property owners and all property
owners of properties that are located within the corresponding separation
distance listed in subsection
10-10-7B5b of this chapter, table 2, in addition to any notice otherwise
required by chapter 12 of this title.
   L.   Signs: No signs shall be allowed on an antenna or tower.
   M.   Buildings And Support Equipment: Buildings and support equipment
associated with antennas or towers shall comply with the requirements of
section
10-10-8 of this chapter.
   N.   Multiple Antenna/Tower Plan: The village encourages the users of towers
and antennas to submit a single application for approval of multiple towers
and/or antenna sites. Applications for approval of multiple sites shall be
given priority in the review process. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
10-10-5: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   General: The uses listed in this section are deemed to be permitted
uses and shall not require administrative approval or a special use permit.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are specifically permitted: Antennas
or towers located on property owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the
village provided a license or lease authorizing such antenna or tower has been
approved by the village. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
10-10-6: ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED USES:
   A.   General: The following provisions shall govern the issuance of
administrative approvals for towers and antennas.
      1.   The building commissioner may administratively approve the uses
listed in this section.
      2.   Each applicant for administrative approval shall apply to the
building commissioner providing the information set forth in subsections 10-10-
7B1 and B3 of this chapter and a nonrefundable fee as established by resolution
of the village board to reimburse the village for the costs of reviewing the
application.
      3.   The building commissioner shall review the application for
administrative approval and determine if the proposed use complies with section
10-10-4 and subsections
10-10-7B4 and B5 of this chapter.
      4.   The building commissioner shall respond to each such application
within sixty (60) days after receiving it by either approving or denying the
application. If the building commissioner fails to respond to the applicant
within said sixty (60) days, then the application shall be deemed to be
approved.
      5.   In connection with any such administrative approval, the building
commissioner may, in order to encourage shared use, administratively waive any
zoning district setback requirements in subsection
10-10-7B4 of this chapter or separation distances between towers in section
10-10-7B5 of this chapter by up to fifty percent (50%).
      6.   In connection with any such administrative approval, the building
commissioner may, in order to encourage the use of monopoles, administratively
allow the reconstruction of an existing tower to monopole construction.
      7.   If an administrative approval is denied, the applicant shall file an
application for a special use permit pursuant to section
10-10-7 of this chapter prior to filing any appeal that may be available under
this zoning ordinance.
   B.   List Of Administratively Approved Uses: The following uses may be
approved by the building commissioner after conducting an administrative
review:
      1.   Industrial Or Heavy Commercial District: Locating a tower or
antenna, including the placement of additional buildings or other supporting
equipment used in connection with said tower or antenna, in any industrial or
heavy commercial zoning district.
      2.   Existing Structures And Towers: Locating antennas on existing
structures or towers consistent with the terms of subsections B2a and B2b of
this section.
         a.   Antennas On Existing Structures: Any antenna which is not
attached to a tower may be approved by the building commissioner as an
accessory use to any commercial, industrial, professional, institutional or
multi-family structure of eight (8) or more dwelling units, provided:
            (1)   The antenna does not extend more than thirty feet (30') above
the highest point of the structure;
            (2)   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA
regulations; and
            (3)   The antenna complies with all applicable building codes.
         b.   Antennas On Existing Towers: An antenna which is attached to an
existing tower may be approved by the building commissioner and, to minimize
adverse visual impacts associated with the proliferation and clustering of
towers, collocation of antennas by more than one carrier on existing towers
shall take precedence over the construction of new towers, provided such
collocation is accomplished in a manner consistent with the following:
            (1)   A tower which is modified or reconstructed to accommodate the
collocation of an additional antenna shall be of the same tower type as the
existing tower, unless the building commissioner allows reconstruction as a
monopole.
            (2)   Height:
               (A)   An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a taller
height, not to exceed thirty feet (30') over the tower's existing height, to
accommodate the collocation of an additional antenna.
               (B)   The height change referred to in subsection B2b(3)(A) of
this section may only occur one time per communication tower.
               (C)   The additional height referred to in subsection B2b(3)(A)
of this section shall not require an additional distance separation as set
forth in section
10-10-7 of this chapter. The tower's premodification height shall be used to
calculate such distance separations.
            (3)   On site location:
               (A)   A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the
collocation of an additional antenna may be moved on site within fifty feet
(50') of its existing location.
               (B)   After the tower is rebuilt to accommodate collocation,
only one tower may remain on the site.
               (C)   A relocated on site tower shall continue to be measured
from the original tower location for purposes of calculating separation
distances between towers pursuant to subsection 10-10-7B5 of this chapter. The
relocation of a tower hereunder shall in no way be deemed to cause a violation
of subsection
10-10-7B5 of this chapter.
               (D)   The on site relocation of a tower which comes within the
separation distances to residential units or residentially zoned lands as
established in subsection 10-10-7B5 of this chapter shall only be permitted
when approved by the building commissioner.
      3.   New Towers In Nonresidential Zoning Districts: Locating any new
tower in a nonresidential zoning district other than industrial or heavy
commercial, provided a licensed professional engineer certifies the tower can
structurally accommodate the number of shared users proposed by the applicant;
the building commissioner concludes the tower is in conformity with the goals
set forth in section
10-10-1 of this chapter and the requirements of section
10-10-4 of this chapter; the tower meets the setback requirements in subsection
10-10-7B4 of this chapter and separation distances in subsection
10-10-7B5 of this chapter; and the tower meets the following height and usage
criteria:
         a.   For a single user, up to ninety feet (90') in height;
         b.   For two (2) users, up to one hundred twenty feet (120') in
height; and
         c.   For three (3) or more users, up to one hundred fifty feet (150')
in height.
      4.   Location In Other Districts: Locating any alternative tower
structure in a zoning district other than industrial or heavy commercial that
in the judgment of the building commissioner is in conformity with the goals
set forth in section
10-10-1 of this chapter.
      5.   Cable Microcell Network: Installing a cable microcell network
through the use of multiple low powered transmitters/receivers attached to
existing wireline systems, such as conventional cable or telephone wires, or
similar technology that does not require the use of towers. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-
1997)
10-10-7: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   General: The following provisions shall govern the issuance of special
use permits for towers or antennas by the planning and zoning commission: (Ord.
97-29, 12-15-1997; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
      1.   If the tower or antenna is not a permitted use under section
10-10-5 of this chapter or permitted to be approved administratively pursuant
to section
10-10-6 of this chapter, then a special use permit shall be required for the
construction of a tower or the placement of an antenna in all zoning districts.
      2.   Applications for special use permits under this section shall be
subject to the procedures and requirements of section
10-12-6 of this title, except as modified in this section. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-
1997)
      3.   In granting a special use permit, the planning and zoning commission
may impose conditions to the extent the planning and zoning commission conclude
such conditions are necessary to minimize any adverse effect of the proposed
tower on adjoining properties. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-
19-2014)
      4.   Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant submits,
whether civil, mechanical, or electrical, shall be certified by a licensed
professional engineer.
      5.   An applicant for a special use permit shall submit the information
described in this section and a nonrefundable fee as established by resolution
of the village board to reimburse the village for the costs of reviewing the
application.
   B.   Towers:
      1.   Information Required: In addition to any information required for
applications for special use permits pursuant to section
10-12-6 of this title, applicants for a special use permit for a tower shall
submit the following information:
         a.   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and
height of the proposed tower, on site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses
and zoning (including when adjacent to other municipalities), comprehensive
land use plan classification of the site and all properties within the
applicable separation distances set forth in subsection B5 of this section,
adjacent roadways, proposed means of access, setbacks from property lines,
elevation drawings of the proposed tower and any other structures, topography,
parking, and other information deemed by the building commissioner to be
necessary to assess compliance with this chapter.
         b.   Legal description of the parent tract and leased parcel (if
applicable).
         c.   The setback distance between the proposed tower and the nearest
residential unit, platted residentially zoned properties, and unplatted
residentially zoned properties.
         d.   The separation distance from other towers described in the
inventory of existing sites submitted pursuant to subsection
10-10-4C of this chapter shall be shown on an updated site plan or map. The
applicant shall also identify the type of construction of the existing tower(s)
and the owner/operator of the existing tower(s), if known.
         e.   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials.
         f.   Method of fencing, and finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination.
         g.   A notarized statement signed by the applicant describing their
compliance with subsections 10-10-4C through G, J, L and M of this chapter,
subsections B4 and B5 of this section and all applicable federal, state or
local laws.
         h.   A notarized statement by the applicant as to whether construction
of the tower will accommodate collocation of additional antennas for future
users.
         i.   Identification of the entities providing the backhaul network for
the tower(s) described in the application and other cellular sites owned or
operated by the applicant in the village.
         j.   A description of the suitability of the use of existing towers,
other structures or alternative technology not requiring the use of towers or
structures to provide the services to be provided through the use of the
proposed new tower.
         k.   A description of the feasible location(s) of future towers or
antennas within the village based upon existing physical, engineering,
technological or geographical limitations in the event the proposed tower is
erected. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
      2.   Factors Considered In Granting Special Use Permits For Towers: In
addition to any standards for consideration of special use permit applications
pursuant to section
10-12-6 of this title, the planning and zoning commission shall consider the
following factors in determining whether to issue a special use permit,
although the planning and zoning commission may waive or reduce the burden on
the applicant of one or more of these criteria if the planning and zoning
commission conclude that the goals of this chapter are better served thereby:
(Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
         a.   Height of the proposed tower;
         b.   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
         c.   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
         d.   Surrounding topography;
         e.   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
         f.   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
         g.   Proposed ingress and egress; and
         h.   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or
alternative technologies not requiring the use of towers or structures, as
discussed in subsection B3 of this section. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
      3.   Availability Of Suitable Existing Towers, Other Structures, Or
Alternative Technology: No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the planning and zoning
commission that no existing tower, structure or alternative technology that
does not require the use of towers or structures can accommodate the
applicant's proposed antenna. An applicant shall submit information requested
by the planning and zoning commission related to the availability of suitable
existing towers, other structures or alternative technology. Evidence submitted
to demonstrate that no existing tower, structure or alternative technology can
accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna may consist of any of the
following: (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
         a.   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet applicant's engineering requirements.
         b.   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant's engineering requirements.
         c.   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment.
         d.   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant's proposed antenna.
         e.   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner
in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower
or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower
development are presumed to be unreasonable.
         f.   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
         g.   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology that
does not require the use of towers or structures, such as a cable microcell
network using multiple low powered transmitters/receivers attached to a
wireline system, is unsuitable. Costs of alternative technology that exceed new
tower or antenna development shall not be presumed to render the technology
unsuitable. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
      4.   Setbacks: The following setback requirements shall apply to all
towers for which a special use permit is required; provided, however, that the
planning and zoning commission may reduce the standard setback requirements if
the goals of this chapter would be better served thereby: (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-
1997; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
         a.   Towers must be set back a distance equal to at least seventy five
percent (75%) of the height of the tower from any adjoining lot line.
         b.   Guys and accessory buildings must satisfy the minimum zoning
district setback requirements. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
      5.   Separation: The following separation requirements shall apply to all
towers and antennas for which a special use permit is required; provided,
however, that the planning and zoning commission may reduce the standard
separation requirements if the goals of this chapter would be better served
thereby. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
         a.   Separation From Off Site Uses/Designated Areas:
            (1)   Tower separation shall be measured from the base of the tower
to the lot line of the off site uses and/or designated areas as specified in
table 1 of this section, except as otherwise provided in table 1 of this
section.
            (2)   Separation requirements for towers shall comply with the
minimum standards established in table 1 of this section:
TABLE 1
 
Off Site Use/Designated Area            Separation Distance
Single-family or duplex residential     200 feet or 300 percent height of tower
units1                                  whichever is greater
Vacant single-family or duplex
residentially zoned land which is       200 feet or 300 percent height of
either platted or has preliminary       tower2 whichever is greater
subdivision plan approval which is not
expired
Vacant unplatted residentially zoned    100 feet or 100 percent height of tower
lands3                                  whichever is greater
Existing multi-family residential units 100 feet or 100 percent height of tower
greater than duplex units               whichever is greater
Nonresidentially zoned lands or         None; only setbacks apply
nonresidential uses
 
   Notes:
      1.    Includes modular homes and mobile homes used for living purposes.
      2.    Separation measured from base of tower to closest building setback
line.
      3.    Includes any unplatted residential use properties without a valid
preliminary subdivision plan or valid development plan approval and any multi-
family residentially zoned land greater than duplex.
         b.   Separation Distances Between Towers:
            (1)   Separation distances between towers shall be applicable for
and measured between the proposed tower and preexisting towers. The separation
distances shall be measured by drawing or following a straight line between the
base of the existing tower and the proposed base, pursuant to a site plan, of
the proposed tower. The separation distances (listed in linear feet) shall be
as shown in the following table 2:
            (2)   Table 2:
EXISTING TOWERS - TYPES
 
                   Lattice Guyed Monopole 75' In Height Monopole Less Than 75'
                                 Or Greater             In Height
Lattice            5,000   5,000 1,500                  750
Guyed              5,000   5,000 1,500                  750
Monopole 75' in    1,500   1,500 1,500                  750
height or greater
Monopole less than 750     750   750                    750
75' in height
 
(Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
      6.   Security Fencing: Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not
less than six feet (6') in height and shall also be equipped with an
appropriate anticlimbing device excluding barb or razor wire fencing; provided
however, that the planning and zoning commission may waive such requirements,
as it deems appropriate.
      7.   Landscaping: The following requirements shall govern the landscaping
surrounding towers for which a special use permit is required; provided,
however, that the planning and zoning commission may waive such requirements if
the goals of this chapter would be better served thereby. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-
1997; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
         a.   Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant
materials that effectively screens the view of the tower compound from property
used for residences. The standard buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip at
least four feet (4') wide outside the perimeter of the compound.
         b.   In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be
minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived.
         c.   Existing mature tree growth and natural land forms on the site
shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as
towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property
perimeter may be sufficient buffer. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
10-10-8: BUILDINGS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT STORAGE:
   A.   Antennas Mounted On Structures Or Rooftops: The equipment cabinet or
structure used in association with antennas shall comply with the following:
      1.   The cabinet or structure shall not contain more than three hundred
(300) square feet of gross floor area or be more than fifteen feet (15') in
height. In addition, for buildings and structures which are less than sixty
five feet (65') in height, the related unmanned equipment structure, if over
one hundred fifty (150) square feet of gross floor area or ten feet (10') in
height, shall be located on the ground and shall not be located on the roof of
the structure.
      2.   If the equipment structure is located on the roof of a building, the
area of the equipment structure and other equipment and structures shall not
occupy more than one hundred fifty (150) square feet or twenty percent (20%) of
the roof area.
      3.   Equipment storage buildings or cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes.
   B.   Antennas Mounted On Utility Poles Or Light Poles: The equipment cabinet
or structure used in association with antennas shall be located in accordance
with the following:
      1.   In residential districts, the equipment cabinet or structure may be
located:
         a.   In a front or side yard provided the cabinet or structure is no
greater than four feet (4') in height or twenty four (24) square feet of gross
floor area and the cabinet/structure is located a minimum of six feet (6') from
all lot lines. The cabinet/structure shall be screened by an evergreen hedge
with an ultimate height of at least forty two inches to forty eight inches (42"
- 48") and a planted height of at least thirty six inches (36").
         b.   In a rear yard, provided the cabinet or structure is no greater
than six feet (6') in height or twenty four (24) square feet in gross floor
area. The cabinet/structure shall be screened by an evergreen hedge with an
ultimate height of eight feet (8') and a planted height of at least thirty six
inches (36").
      2.   In commercial or industrial districts the equipment cabinet or
structure shall be no greater than six feet (6') in height or sixty four (64)
square feet in gross floor area. The structure or cabinet shall be screened by
an evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of eight feet (8') and a planted
height of at least thirty six inches (36"). In all other instances, structures
or cabinets shall be screened from view of all residential properties which
abut or are directly across the street from the structure or cabinet by a solid
fence six feet (6') in height or an evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of
eight feet (8') and a planted height of at least thirty six inches (36").
   C.   Antennas Located On Towers: The related unmanned equipment structure
shall not contain more than three hundred (300) square feet of gross floor area
or be more than fifteen feet (15') in height, and shall be located in
accordance with the minimum yard requirements of the zoning district in which
located. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
   D.   Modification Of Building Size Requirements: The requirements of
subsections A through C of this section may be modified by the building
commissioner in the case of administratively approved uses or by the planning
and zoning commission in the case of uses permitted by special use to encourage
collocation. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
10-10-9: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED ANTENNAS AND TOWERS:
Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve
(12) months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or
tower shall remove the same within ninety (90) days of receipt of notice from
the village notifying the owner of such abandonment. Failure to remove an
abandoned antenna or tower within said ninety (90) days shall be grounds to
remove the tower or antenna at the owner's expense. If there are two (2) or
more users of a single tower, then this provision shall not become effective
until all users cease using the tower. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
10-10-10: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Not Expansion Of Nonconforming Use: Towers that are constructed, and
antennas that are installed, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a nonconforming use or
structure.
   B.   Preexisting Towers: Preexisting towers shall be allowed to continue
their usage as they presently exist. Routine maintenance (including replacement
with a new tower of like construction and height) shall be permitted on such
preexisting towers. New construction other than routine maintenance on a
preexisting tower shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Rebuilding Damaged Or Destroyed Nonconforming Towers Or Antennas:
Notwithstanding section
10-10-9 of this chapter, bona fide nonconforming towers or antennas that are
damaged or destroyed may be rebuilt without having to first obtain
administrative approval or a special use permit and without having to meet the
separation requirements specified in subsections
10-10-7B4 and B5 of this chapter. The type, height and location of the tower on
site shall be of the same type and intensity as the original facility approval.
Building permits to rebuild the facility shall comply with the then applicable
building codes and shall be obtained within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date the facility is damaged or destroyed. If no permit is obtained or if
said permit expires, the tower or antenna shall be deemed abandoned as
specified in section
10-10-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 97-29, 12-15-1997)
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Regulations
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
buildings, structures, and uses. The long term goal of these regulations is the
eventual elimination of all nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses.
(Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
10-11-2: REGULATIONS:
Any building, structure or use which lawfully existed at the time of the
adoption of this chapter, and which remains or becomes nonconforming upon the
adoption of this chapter or its predecessors or of any subsequent amendment
thereto, may be continued only in accordance with the following regulations:
   A.   Repairs, Maintenance And Alterations: Ordinary repairs, normal
maintenance and nonstructural alterations may be made to a nonconforming
building, structure or building containing a nonconforming use, provided that
the repairs, maintenance work or nonstructural alterations do not extend or
intensify the nonconforming use. Structural alterations may be made to a
nonconforming building, structure or building containing a nonconforming use
only in the following situations:
      1.   When alteration is required by law.
      2.   When the alteration will actually result in eliminating the
nonconforming use.
      3.   When the alteration is made to improve livability in a residential
nonconforming structure, provided that no structural alteration shall be made
which would increase the number of dwelling units or the number of bedrooms or
the height or bulk of the buildings.
   B.   Additions And Enlargements: A nonconforming building or structure or
use within a nonconforming building or structure shall not be added to or
enlarged in any manner unless such nonconforming building or structure and use
thereof, including all additions and enlargements thereto, is made to conform
to all the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   C.   Moving: No building or structure shall be moved in whole or in part in
any other location unless every portion of such building or structure, and the
use thereof, is made to conform to all regulations of the district into which
it is moved.
   D.   Restoration Of Damaged Nonconforming Buildings Or Structures: A
building or structure, all or substantially all of which is designed or
intended for a use not permitted in the district in which it is located, and
which is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty to the extent that the
cost of restoration will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the physical value of
the entire building or structure, shall not be restored unless it shall be made
to conform to all regulations of the district in which it is located. In the
event that such damage or destruction is less than fifty percent (50%) of the
physical value the entire building or structure, no repairs or construction
shall be made unless such restoration is started within one year from the date
of the partial destruction and diligently prosecuted to completion. All
reconstruction or repair shall also meet the requirements of title 9, chapter
1, "Building Codes", of this code.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Buildings, Structures Or Uses: A
building, structure, or portion thereof, all or substantially all of which is
designed or intended for a use which is not permitted in the district in which
it is located, and remains unoccupied or unused for the said nonconforming use
for a period of at least six (6) months, shall thereafter be occupied or used
only by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district in which it
is located.
   F.   Change Of Use In Nonconforming Building Or Structure: The nonconforming
use of a building or structure that existed upon the effective date hereof
shall not be changed to another nonconforming use but shall be changed to a use
permitted in the district in which the building or structure is located.
   G.   Nonconforming Use Of Land:
      1.   Any nonconforming use of land shall only be allowed at the intensity
or level existing upon the effective date hereof.
      2.   Any nonconforming use of land, that does not contain a building with
an assessed value greater than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) shall be
terminated within five (5) years from the effective date hereof. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-12-1: Administration
10-12-2: Community Development Department
10-12-2-1: Certificate Of Occupancy
10-12-3: Planning And Zoning Commission
10-12-4: Variations
10-12-5: Amendments And Zoning Changes
10-12-6: Special Uses
10-12-7: Penalty
10-12-1: ADMINISTRATION:
The administration of this title is hereby vested in two (2) offices of the
government of the village as follows:
   A.   Community development department.
   B.   Planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
10-12-2: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT:
The community development department shall have the authority, responsibility
and duties as set forth in title 1, chapter 8, article C, "Community
Development Department", of this code and the following:
   A.   To review and approve plans submitted by builders in conformity with
the regulations of this title, and make and maintain records thereof and issue
permits.
   B.   To issue certificates of occupancy, and make and maintain records
thereof.
   C.   To conduct inspections of buildings, structures and use of land to
determine compliance with this and other applicable ordinances.
   D.   To keep such records which the village requires to be kept in regard to
building.
   E.   To issue permits for erection of temporary structures in accordance
with regulations of the West Dundee building code. (Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
10-12-2-1: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Required: No building, or addition thereto, constructed after the
effective date of this title and no addition or major alteration to a
previously existing building shall be used or occupied, and no land vacant on
the effective date of this title shall be used for any purpose, until and
unless a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the community development
department. No change in use or occupancy in any business, commercial or
industrial district shall be made nor any new use or occupancy established in
any such district, until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
community development department. Every certificate of occupancy shall state
that the use or occupancy complies with all the provisions of the amended
zoning title.
   B.   Application For Building Permit: Every application for a building
permit shall also be deemed to be an application for a certificate of
occupancy. Every application for a certificate of occupancy for a new or
changed use of land or building where no building permit is required shall be
made directly to the community development department.
   C.   Posting: Every certificate of occupancy required hereunder by virtue of
a change in use or occupancy in a business, industrial or commercial district
shall be permanently posted in a prominent place on the premises at all times.
   D.   Owner: In the event of a change of ownership, but not of use or
occupancy, of any building located in a business, industrial or commercial
district, the new owner shall within thirty (30) days after receiving title to
said property notify the community development department of said change of
ownership. "Owner" shall mean titleholder of record.
   E.   Issuance:
      1.   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued only after the community
development department has inspected the premises and finds:
         a.   It to be in compliance with all applicable regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located; and
         b.   The use or building or structure is in conformance with the plans
and specifications for which the building permit was issued.
      2.   Every certificate of occupancy shall be dated, shall state the use
or occupancy and that it complies with the provisions of this title and shall
be signed by the community development department. (Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
10-12-3: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Organization, Powers And Duties: Appointment and duties as set forth in
title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
   B.   Jurisdiction:
      1.   Applications For Appeal: To hear and decide all applications for
appeals and for the types of authorized variations as hereinafter set forth in
the manner prescribed and by the standards and other regulations as are
applicable.
      2.   Meetings And Rules:
         a.   All meetings of the planning and zoning commission shall be held
as set forth in section
2-1-2 of this code unless the chairman shall determine there are no pending
matters to form an agenda. All hearings conducted by the planning and zoning
commission shall be open to the public.
         b.   In all official proceedings, the chairman, or in his absence the
vice chairman, of the planning and zoning commission shall have the power to
administer oaths and to compel by subpoena the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of books and papers.
         c.   The planning and zoning commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if failing
to vote or absent, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its
hearings and other official actions. A copy of every rule or regulation, every
appeal, variation and every recommendation, order, requirement, decision or
determination of the planning and zoning commission shall be filed immediately
in the office of the village clerk and shall be a public record.
         d.   The chairman of the planning and zoning commission shall have the
right to cast a vote on all matters where a vote is taken.
         e.   The village president and the board of trustees shall be ex
officio nonvoting members of the planning and zoning commission.
         f.   The planning and zoning commission shall adopt its own rules of
procedures, not in conflict with this title or with other applicable ordinances
or with the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   C.   Appeals:
      1.   Authority: The planning and zoning commission shall hear and decide
appeals from the administrative order, requirement, decision or determination
made by the community development department under this title. It shall also
hear and decide all matters upon which it is required to pass.
      2.   Initiation: An appeal may be taken to the planning and zoning
commission by any person or by any office, department, board, bureau or
commission aggrieved by an administrative order, requirement, decision or
determination under this title by the community development department.
      3.   Processing: An appeal shall be filed with the chairman of the
planning and zoning commission for processing in accordance with the
requirements of the Illinois Compiled Statutes and the rules and regulations of
the planning and zoning commission. The chairman shall assign a consecutive
number for identification to all matters in the order in which they are
received, and insofar as it is practical, place them on the agenda of the
planning and zoning commission in their numerical order.
      4.   Decisions: All decisions of the planning and zoning commission on
appeals from an administrative order, requirement, decision or determination of
the community development department shall, in all instances, be forwarded to
the board of trustees as recommendations for acceptance or denial as the case
may be. Final decisions rest with the board of trustees. (Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-
2014)
10-12-4: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Recommendations: The planning and zoning commission shall recommend
variations from the provisions of this title in harmony with its general
purpose and intent, and shall recommend them only in the specific instances
where there are practical difficulties or particular hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the regulations of this title.
   B.   Initiation For Variation: Any owner of record of a lot or the board of
trustees may apply for a variation.
   C.   Filing For Variation:
      1.   Application: An application for a variation shall be filed with the
chairman of the planning and zoning commission on a form containing such
information as the planning and zoning commission may from time to time, by
rule, require. The application shall be accompanied by such plans or data, or
both, as specified by the planning and zoning commission, and shall include a
statement in writing by the applicant or adequate facts showing that the
proposed variation will conform to the standards set forth herein for
variation.
      2.   Fee: A fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be required
for filing an application for a variance. If two (2) or more variances are
requested the filing fee shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00). The
petitioner is also responsible for all publishing costs, legal fees and other
incidental costs to the village.
      3.   Notices: Notices of the public hearing shall be given as follows:
         a.   Actual: The applicant shall give the following notices:
            (1)   To the persons to whom the current real estate tax bills are
sent, as shown on the record of the local real estate tax collector, and to all
persons residing on or in possession of portions of the premises whose names
are listed on mailboxes, bells or signs on the said premises of all lots lying
within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the property lines of the lot for which
the variation is sought.
            (2)   All such notices shall be in writing and shall give the
number of the variation as assigned, the place and purpose of such hearing, and
the date and time, if known, shall be given not more than thirty (30) days nor
less than fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing. The notice shall be
delivered personally or by registered mail, properly addressed with sufficient
postage affixed thereon, with a return receipt requested. The applicant shall
file a sworn affidavit containing a complete list of the names and last known
addresses of the owners of the properties required to be served, the method of
service, and the names and addresses of the persons so served with copies of
the notice. The affidavit shall be filed with the chairman of the planning and
zoning commission and shall be a presumption of the giving of said notices.
         b.   Publication: The chairman of the planning and zoning commission
shall cause a notice of time, place and purpose of such hearing to be published
in a newspaper of general circulation within the village not more than thirty
(30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing.
         c.   Posting: The chairman of the planning and zoning commission shall
cause a notice to be posted on the property for which an appeal is being taken
showing the appeal number assigned, the date, time and place of the hearing and
the change or relief sought, not more than thirty (30) days nor less than ten
(10) days prior to the public hearing and posted as follows:
            (1)   On an unimproved lot - placed not more than fifteen feet
(15') from the front lot line and not less than four feet (4') nor more than
six feet (6') from the ground level and placed in such a manner as to be
visible from the street; and to be not less than two hundred fifty feet (250')
apart if the frontage exceeds said distance.
            (2)   On an improved lot - placed on the front or main entrance
door of the improvement so as to be visible from the outside.
            (3)   If more than fifteen (15) lots of record are involved in the
appeal, posting notices shall not be required on each lot.
         d.   Additional: Supplemental or additional notices may be
distributed, published or posted as the planning and zoning commission may, by
rule, prescribe from time to time.
   D.   Hearing On Application: Upon receipt in proper form of the application
and statement referred to above, the planning and zoning commission shall hold
at least one public hearing on the proposed variation. However, the planning
and zoning commission may continue from time to time the hearing without
further notices being given except by public announcement at the meeting and
being placed in the minutes of that meeting.
   E.   Standards:
      1.   A variation shall be recommended only if the evidence in the
judgment of the planning and zoning commission sustains each of the following:
         a.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zoning district; and
         b.   The plight of the owner was not created by the owner and is due
to unique circumstances; and
         c.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      2.   For the purpose of implementing the above standards, the planning
and zoning commission in making its decision, whenever there are practical
difficulties or particular hardship, shall also take into consideration the
extent to which the following facts favorable to the applicant have been
established by the evidence that:
         a.   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved would bring a particular hardship
upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the regulations
were strictly enforced;
         b.   The conditions upon which the petition for variation is based
would not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
         c.   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property or any person through whom
the applicant claims title;
         d.   The granting of the variation will not be substantially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or
improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located; or
         e.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of
fire, or otherwise endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or
impair property values within the neighborhood.
   F.   Types Of Authorized Variations: Variations from the regulations of this
title may be recommended by the planning and zoning commission in the following
instances in accordance with the standards set forth in subsection E of this
section.
      1.   Requirements relating to yards, setbacks, spaces, land coverage,
obstructions, accessory buildings and substandard lots.
      2.   Building height, but not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the existing
applicable height regulations of the zoning district in which the subject site
is located.
      3.   Requirements for off street parking spaces, except that no variation
reducing the number of required off street parking spaces may be granted in
zoning districts where a cash contribution to the parking fund is required in
lieu of parking spaces.
      4.   Extensions, alterations and additions of nonconforming uses and
nonconforming buildings.
   G.   Recommendations: All findings and recommendations of the planning and
zoning commission shall be forwarded to the village president and board of
trustees for final denial or acceptance. (Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
10-12-5: AMENDMENTS AND ZONING CHANGES:
   A.   Initiation Of Amendment: Amendments may be proposed by any interested
person, organization or village official.
   B.   Filing For Amendment:
      1.   Application: An application for an amendment shall be filed with the
chairman of the planning and zoning commission on a form containing such
information as the planning and zoning commission may from time to time by rule
require. The application shall be accompanied by such plans or data, or both,
as specified by the rules of the planning and zoning commission and shall
include a statement in writing by the applicant and adequate evidence showing
that the proposed amendment will conform to the standards set forth herein for
amendments. Copies of such application and documents shall be forwarded to the
planning and zoning commission to hold a public hearing.
      2.   Fee: A fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be required
for filing an application for an amendment. The petitioner is also responsible
for all publishing costs, legal fees and other incidental costs to the village.
      3.   Notices: Notices of the public hearing shall be given as follows:
         a.   Actual: The applicant shall give the following notices:
            (1)   To the person to whom the current real estate tax bills are
sent, as shown on the record of the local real estate tax collector and to all
persons residing on or in possession of the premises whose names are listed on
mailboxes, bells or signs on the said premises, of all lots lying within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the property lines of the lot for which the
amendment is sought.
            (2)   All such notices shall be in writing and shall give the
number, if any, assigned to the application, the place and purpose of such
hearing and the date and time, if known, shall be given not more than thirty
(30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing. The
notices shall be delivered personally or may be sent properly addressed, with
sufficient postage affixed thereon, with return receipt requested. The
applicant shall file a sworn affidavit with copies of the notices with the
chairman, showing names and addresses of the persons to whom the notices have
been sent. Said affidavit shall be a presumption of the giving of said notices.
         b.   Publication: The chairman of the planning and zoning commission
shall cause a notice of time, place and purpose of such hearing to be published
in a newspaper of general circulation within the village not more than thirty
(30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing.
         c.   Hearing On Application: Upon receipt in proper form of the
application and statement referred to above, the planning and zoning commission
shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed amendment. However, the
planning and zoning commission may continue the hearing from time to time
without further notices being given except by public announcement at the
meeting and placed in the minutes of that meeting.
         d.   Findings Of Fact And Recommendation Of The Planning And Zoning
Commission: Within forty five (45) days after the close of the hearing on a
proposed amendment, the planning and zoning commission shall make written
findings of fact and shall submit same, together with its recommendations to
the village president and board of trustees. Where the purpose and effect of
the proposed amendment is to change the zoning classification of particular
property, the planning and zoning commission shall make findings based upon the
evidence presented to it in each specific case with respect to the following
matters:
            (1)   Existing uses of property within the general area of the
property in question.
            (2)   The zoning classification of property within the general area
of the property in question.
            (3)   The suitability of the property in question to the uses
permitted under the existing zoning classification.
            (4)   The trend of development if any, in the general area of the
property in question, including changes, if any, which have taken place since
the day the property in question was placed in its present zoning
classification.
         e.   Decisions And Recommendations By The Planning And Zoning
Commission:
            (1)   The planning and zoning commission shall not recommend the
adoption of a proposed amendment until after it finds that the adoption of such
amendment is in the public interest and is not solely for the interest of the
applicant. The planning and zoning commission may recommend the adoption of an
amendment changing the zoning classification of the property in question to any
other zoning classification.
            (2)   A concurring vote of a majority of those members present at
the meeting with a minimum of four (4) concurring votes shall be required to
recommend granting or denying an application for an amendment.
            (3)   Report to the village board shall contain the number of
planning and zoning commission members present and the number voting for and
the number voting against the amendment.
         f.   Action By The Village President And Board Of Trustees:
            (1)   The village president and board of trustees upon receiving
the recommendations of the planning and zoning commission may grant or deny any
proposed amendment in accordance with applicable Illinois Compiled Statutes, or
may refer it back to the planning and zoning commission for further
consideration.
            (2)   If an application for a proposed amendment is not acted upon
finally by the village president and board of trustees within six (6) months of
the date upon which such recommendation of the planning and zoning commission
is received by the village president and board of trustees, it shall be deemed
to have been denied.
            (3)   In any case where an amendment has been granted covering a
specific lot or lots and a building permit has not been applied for within six
(6) months after the date of granting thereof, or use under the new amendment
made on any of said lot or lots, then without further action by the planning
and zoning commission and village president and board of trustees, such
amendment shall automatically be null and void and of no further force or
effect. (Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
10-12-6: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Purpose: The development and execution of this title is based upon the
division of the village into districts, within which districts the use of land
and buildings and the location of buildings and structures in relation to the
land are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there are
certain uses which, because of their unique characteristics, cannot be properly
classified in any particular district or districts without consideration, in
each case, of the impact of those uses upon neighboring land and of the public
need for the particular use of the particular location. Such special uses fall
into two (2) categories:
      1.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual nature
that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their
impact upon neighboring property or public facilities.
   B.   Initiation For Special Use: Any owner of a lot of record, or his duly
authorized agent for that purpose, may file an application to use such land for
one or more of the special uses provided for in this title in the zoning
district in which the land is located.
   C.   Filing For Special Use:
      1.   Application: An application for a special use shall be filed with
the chairman of the planning and zoning commission on a form containing such
information as the planning and zoning commission may from time to time by rule
require. The application shall be accompanied by such plans or data, or both,
as specified by the planning and zoning commission rules, and shall include a
statement in writing by the applicant and adequate evidence presented showing
that the proposed special use will conform to the standards set forth herein
for special uses. Copies of such application shall be forwarded to the planning
and zoning commission to hold a public hearing.
      2.   Fee: A fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be required
for filing an application for a special use. If two (2) or more special uses
are requested the filing fee shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00). The
petitioner is also responsible for all publishing costs, legal fees and other
incidental costs to the village.
      3.   Notices: Notices of the public hearing shall be given as follows:
         a.   Actual: The applicant shall give the following notices:
            (1)   To the persons to whom the current real estate tax bills are
sent as shown on the record of the local real estate tax collector and to all
persons residing on or in possession of the premises whose names are listed on
the mailboxes, bells or signs on the said premises of all lots lying within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the property lines of the lot for which the
special use is sought.
            (2)   All such notices shall be in writing and shall give the
number, if any, assigned to the application, the place and purpose of such
hearing and the date and time, if known, shall be given not more than thirty
(30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing. The
notices shall be delivered personally or may be sent by certified or registered
mail properly addressed and with sufficient postage affixed thereon, with
return receipt requested.
The applicant shall file a sworn affidavit with copies of the notices with the
chairman showing the names and addresses of all persons to whom the notices
have been sent. Said affidavit shall be a presumption of giving of said
notices.
         b.   Publication: The chairman of the planning and zoning commission
shall cause a notice of time, place and purpose of such hearing to be published
in a newspaper of general circulation within the village not more than thirty
(30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing.
         c.   Posting: The chairman of the planning and zoning commission shall
cause a notice to be posted on the property for which a special use is sought
showing the number, if any, assigned to the said hearing, the date, time and
place of the hearing, the nature of the special use sought, not more than
thirty (30) days nor less than ten (10) days prior to the public hearing, and
posted as follows:
            (1)   On an unimproved lot - placed not more than fifteen feet
(15') from the front lot line and not less than four feet (4') nor more than
six feet (6') from the ground level and placed in such a manner as to be
visible from the street.
            (2)   On an improved lot - placed on the front or main entrance
door of the improvement so as to be visible from the street.
         d.   Additional: Supplemental or additional notices may be
distributed, published or posted as the planning and zoning commission may, by
rule, prescribe from time to time.
   D.   Hearing On Application: Upon receipt in proper form of the application
and statement referred to above, the planning and zoning commission shall hold
at least one public hearing on the proposed special use. However, the planning
and zoning commission may continue the hearing from time to time without
further notices being given except by public announcement at the meeting and
placed in the minutes of that meeting.
   E.   Decisions And Recommendations Of The Planning And Zoning Commission: No
special use permit shall be recommended by the planning and zoning commission
unless there is a concurring vote of a majority of all members present with a
minimum of four (4) concurring votes required, based on finding of fact that:
      1.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare.
      2.   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted nor
substantially diminish property values within the neighborhood.
      3.   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district.
      4.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage or necessary facilities
have been or will be provided.
      5.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress to design as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
      6.   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations may, in each instance, be modified by the village president and
board of trustees.
   F.   Action By The President And Board Of Trustees:
      1.   Prior to the granting of any special use, the village president and
board of trustees shall stipulate such conditions and restrictions upon the
establishment, location, construction, maintenance and operation of the special
use as deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest and to secure
compliance with the standards and requirements specified in this chapter. In
all cases in which special uses are granted, the village president and board of
trustees shall require such evidence and assurances as it may deem necessary to
guarantee the conditions stipulated being complied with and carried out.
      2.   The village president and board of trustees may grant or deny any
application for a special use permit after receiving the recommendations of the
planning and zoning commission including the stipulation of additional
conditions and guarantees, when they are deemed necessary for the protection of
the public interest.
      3.   No application for a special use which has been denied wholly or in
part by the village president and board of trustees shall be resubmitted for a
period of one year from the date of said order of denial. (Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-
2014)
10-12-7: PENALTY:
In addition to the enforcement proceedings authorized in the statutes, any
person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or
who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title, shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for such offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
2014-14, 5-19-2014)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Scope
11-1-4: Interpretation
11-1-5: Variations
11-1-6: Permit Requirements
11-1-7: Meetings To Consider Subdivisions
11-1-8: Penalty
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the SUBDIVISION
AND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE FOR THE VILLAGE OF WEST DUNDEE, KANE COUNTY,
ILLINOIS. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
The following regulations are adopted for the purpose of promoting and
protecting the public health, safety and general welfare:
   A.   To provide for a permanently wholesome community environment; to
conserve, protect and enhance property and property values; and to secure the
most efficient use of land;
   B.   To provide for orderly growth and development; to prevent scattered
development beyond existing public utilities and facilities; and to facilitate
the adequate but economical provision of public improvements;
   C.   To limit and control the pollution of the environment; to safeguard the
public against flood damage; and to preserve and enhance historical sites and
natural features;
   D.   To prescribe reasonable rules and regulations governing the subdivision
and platting of land; the preparation of plats; the location, width and course
of streets and highways; the installation of utilities, street pavements and
other essential improvements; and the provision of necessary public grounds for
schools, parks, playgrounds and other public open space. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-1-3: SCOPE:
   A.   Whenever any subdivision or resubdivision of land shall hereafter be
laid out within the incorporated limits of the village or within territory not
more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the incorporated boundary of the
village, and not within the corporate limits or planning jurisdictional
boundaries of another municipality, the subdivider thereof or his agent shall
submit subdivision plans to the village. Said plans, proposed improvements and
all procedures relating thereto, shall in all respects be in full compliance
with the regulations contained in this title.
   B.   Until the plan or plans of the subdivision, streets or improvements
have been certified to and approved by the board of trustees:
      1.   No land shall be subdivided or filed for record, nor any street laid
out, nor any improvement made to the natural land.
      2.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within the proposed subdivision
shall be offered for sale, nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be
made or given.
      3.   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, storm water
drainage, sanitary sewerage facilities, gas and electric service, street
lighting or grading or surfacing of streets, shall hereafter be made by any
owner or his agent.
   C.   All plans of the subdivision, streets or improvements, and all
offerings or dedications of land to the village for use as streets, highways,
alleys, paths, schools, parks or other public uses shall be referred to the
planning and zoning commission for review and recommendation before being
accepted by the board of trustees.
   D.   Where a tract of land proposed for subdivision is part of a larger,
logical subdivision unit in relation to the village as a whole, the planning
and zoning commission may, before recommending approval, cause to be prepared a
plan for the entire area or neighborhood, for such use by the planning and
zoning commission as an aid in judging the proposed plat. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
11-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall
be held to be the minimum requirements.
   B.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title upon the
use of land are either more restrictive or less restrictive, the comparable
conditions imposed by any other provision of this title or of any other law,
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which
are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall
govern.
   C.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any
other private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this title are
more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such
easements, covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this
title shall govern.
   D.   No subdivision of land which was not lawfully existing at the time of
the effective date hereof shall be made lawful solely by reason of the adoption
of these regulations, and to the extent that said subdivision of land is in
conflict in any manner with the requirements of this title, said subdivision of
land remains unlawful hereunder. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-1-5: VARIATIONS:
   A.   In cases where there are particular difficulties or peculiar hardships
in carrying out the literal provisions of this title, the planning and zoning
commission may recommend to the board of trustees that a variation from such
provisions be granted.
   B.   Such planning and zoning commission's recommendations and reasons for
recommending such variation shall be made in writing, setting forth all
pertinent facts and circumstances of the case. Such recommendation may be made
by referring the variation matter to the board of trustees before the planning
and zoning commission makes any further consideration of or takes any further
action on the subdivision application in question; or such recommendation may
be made at the same time that the planning and zoning commission recommends
action on the entire subdivision application.
   C.   The president and the board of trustees shall not approve any such
recommendation which will not be in harmony with the general purposes and
intent of the provisions of this title and the official plan and map. (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989)
11-1-6: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Permits: No building permit shall be issued by any governing
official for the construction of any building or structure on any land or lot
within a "subdivision" as defined herein, which has been approved for platting
or replatting, until the final plat has been recorded and until the required
improvements have been installed or are being installed to the satisfaction of
the board of trustees.
   B.   Occupancy Permits: No occupancy permit shall be granted by any
governing official for the use of any structure within any subdivision approved
for platting or replatting until required utility facilities have been
installed and made ready to serve the property, and until all other required
improvements have been constructed or are in the course of construction and are
suitable for use, and all requirements of title 10 of this code and this title
are met. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-1-7: MEETINGS TO CONSIDER SUBDIVISIONS:
All plans, plats and other material submitted as required herein shall be
considered at regularly scheduled meetings of the village board or the planning
and zoning commission. Additional meetings and/or work sessions may be held if
requested by the subdivider, and approved by the village board and/or planning
and zoning commission. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this title shall be fined as provided in
the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or in which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd.
2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Definitions
11-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, the terms and words used herein shall be
used, interpreted and defined as follows:
   ALLEY: Strip of land along the side of or in the rear of lots intended to
provide secondary access to and from streets and such lots, and shall not be
designed for general travel.
   BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shorelines of waterways,
or corporate boundary lines of the village.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The president and board of trustees of the village.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line, generally parallel with and measured from the
lot line, establishing the required distance between said lot line and the
permitted structure or building area.
   EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or certain persons for a specific purpose.
   LOT: A portion or basic unit of a subdivision or other parcel of land
fronting on a public street and intended to be that unit by which such land
would be individually developed and transferred.
   OFFICIAL MAP: A map adopted by the board of trustees as provided by law
showing the streets, highways, parks and drainage systems theretofore laid out,
and any amendments and additions thereto resulting from annexation, approval
and recording of new subdivision plats.
   OFFICIAL PLAN: The comprehensive plan adopted by the board of trustees,
including all changes and amendments thereto duly adopted as provided by law.
   OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation or trust, or any other legal entity, having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided for purposes of commencing and
maintaining proceedings to subdivide such land as provided by law.
   PATHWAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for the purpose of providing
pedestrian and bicycle access to neighboring areas.
   PLAN, CONCEPT: A general map or drawing on which the subdivider's schematic
design for the subdivision of land is presented for discussion purposes prior
to the expenditure of funds for preparing the preliminary plan.
   PLAN, PRELIMINARY: A detailed map, drawing or chart on which the
subdivider's design for the subdivision of land is presented and which he
submits in form for review and approval but not for recording.
   PLAT, FINAL: An accurate map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's
plan for the subdivision of land is presented and which he submits for final
approval and intends to record in final form.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANT: Recorded conditions entered into between public and/or
private parties and constituting a restriction on the use of all or some
private property within a subdivision or development for the mutual benefit of
successor property owners, and to provide protection against undesirable
aspects of developments which would tend to impair the stability of values.
   ROADWAY PAVEMENT: The paved area existing on the street right of way,
exclusive of sidewalks, driveway approaches or related uses, and its width
measured from back of curb to back of curb.
   STREET: The street right of way or easement, whether public or private, and
shall not be considered as the area of the paving or other improvement on the
street right of way unless such paving and improvement coincides with the
boundaries of such right of way.
   STREET, PRIVATE: A street located on private property for the purpose of
providing vehicular access to that property.
   STREET, PUBLIC: A street located within a dedicated right of way for the
purpose of providing vehicular access.
   STREET TYPES:
      Collector Or Secondary Street: A street which carries traffic from minor
streets to the primary street system, including the principal entrance and
circulation streets of residential areas and having direct access to abutting
properties permitted (not permitted).
      Cul-De-Sac: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated
by a vehicle turnaround at the other end.
      Marginal Access Or Frontage: A minor street which is parallel with and
adjacent to primary streets and highways, and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from fast, through moving traffic on primary streets.
      Minor Or Local Street: A street with limited continuity and used
primarily as access to abutting properties.
      Primary Or Major Street: A street of considerable continuity which serves
or is intended to serve as a major traffic artery connecting large areas.
   STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the property lines abutting both
sides of a street right of way.
   SUBDIVIDER: The owner, or any other person, firm or corporation authorized
by the owner, undertaking proceedings under the provisions of this title for
the purpose of subdividing land. The terms "applicant", "developer" and
"subdivider" are interchangeable.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of land into two (2) or more parts, or any
division of land which involves new streets or easements of access. The term
includes resubdivision, and when appropriate, the context shall relate to the
process of subdividing, or to the land subdivided. When two (2) adjoining
buildable lots are combined to accommodate one or more buildings, structures,
accessory uses and the facilities serving those structures and uses (i.e.,
driveways, etc.) such that the second buildable lot does not remain completely
vacant, and/or if said lots are held in single fee ownership with a common
permanent index number (PIN), then both lots will be deemed to be combined as
one buildable lot requiring a variance from subdivision and development
regulations before either may again be used as a separate buildable lot.
   VILLAGE: The village of West Dundee, Kane County, Illinois.
   VILLAGE ATTORNEY: The person or firm charged with the responsibility of
providing legal counsel regarding municipal matters.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER: The person or firm charged with the responsibility of
municipal engineering matters.
   VILLAGE MANAGER: The chief administrative officer of the village. (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Concept Plan
11-3-2: Preliminary Plan
11-3-3: Installation Of Survey Monuments
11-3-4: Improvement Plans And Specifications
11-3-5: Final Plat
11-3-1: CONCEPT PLAN:
   A.   The applicant secures from the planning and zoning commission the
following information:
      1.   Summary of the subdivision review procedure;
      2.   General information form;
      3.   Concept plan, preliminary plan and final plat checklists;
      4.   Application for preliminary plan approval;
      5.   Application for final plat approval;
      6.   Related ordinances and standards.
   B.   The applicant shall complete and submit to the planning and zoning
commission fifteen (15) copies of the general information form accompanied by
the following material. The village may require reduced size copies.
      1.   Location map, drawn at an approximate scale, showing the existing
community facilities within two hundred feet (200') of the exterior property
lines of the proposed subdivision; including the name and location of main
traffic arteries, public transportation lines, sewage and utility lines, water
mains and drainage pattern, shopping areas, elementary and high schools, parks
and playgrounds. The location of all land owned or under option by the
subdivider shall also be shown on the map.
      2.   Concept plan shall show in simple sketch form, on topographic
survey, the boundaries of the plat and the existing conditions on and within
two hundred feet (200') of the site; include existing natural features such as
wooded areas, low areas subject to flooding, drainage patterns, bodies of water
and other significant features such as unique vegetation, geological conditions
and wildlife habitats; include existing manmade features such as buildings,
barns, bridges, historical sites, underground utilities, rights of way,
easements, other structures and the present zoning or planned use according to
the official plan; include, preferably on an acetate or Mylar overlay, the
proposed land uses, points of access, drainage pattern, storm water retention
and detention areas, open space, public sites, title of subdivision, scale,
north arrow and date.
      3.   General soils map, as prepared by the USDA soil conservation service
(St. Charles, Illinois).
      4.   Location and soils maps as outlined in this section shall not be
required for proposed subdivisions involving a land area of one acre or less.
   C.   The village board shall review the concept plan and, by motion, direct
the applicant to prepare a preliminary plan and refer the preliminary plan to
the planning and zoning commission for review and recommendation. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
11-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAN:
   A.   Plan Requirements: The applicant shall submit to the village fifteen
(15) copies of a preliminary plan. The preliminary plan shall comply with the
provisions of chapter 4 of this title and shall be drawn at a scale of one
hundred feet to the inch (1" = 100') or fifty feet to the inch (1" = 50') if
the area of subdivision is less than forty (40) acres. The village may require
reduced size copies. The preliminary plan shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Location And Description:
         a.   Name of the proposed subdivision, which shall not duplicate the
name of any plat heretofore recorded in Kane County.
         b.   Legal description of land proposed to be subdivided, by section,
township and range, and other terms as used in describing such land on the
records of the recorder of deeds, Kane County, Illinois.
         c.   Boundary lines of the proposed subdivision, including bearing and
dimensions, as prepared and certified by a land surveyor registered in
Illinois.
         d.   Total acreage, within the boundaries of the tract.
         e.   Names and addresses of the owner, owner of record (including the
names and addresses of all beneficiaries of any land trust, shareholders owning
5 percent or more of the corporate stock of the corporation, or partners owning
5 percent or more of the corporate stock of the partnership accompanied by a
certified copy of the trust agreement and all amendments thereto), the
subdivider, the surveyor, the engineer and the land planner who designed the
plan.
         f.   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions.
         g.   Date, scale and north point.
      2.   Existing Conditions (On And Within 200 Feet Of The Tract):
         a.   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet (2') with reference to USGS datum, except in unusual
topographic conditions when such vertical intervals may be required to be
altered as determined by the village engineer.
         b.   Soil types, as outlined by a soil scientist.
         c.   Other natural features such as source of water supply,
watercourses (with highest flood levels indicated), marshes, ponds, springs,
rock outcrops, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees six inches (6") or more
in caliper at one foot (1') above ground level, and other features.
         d.   Existing improvements, including the locations, widths and names
of all existing or previously platted streets or other rights of way showing
type of improvement (if any), railroad and utility rights of way, parks and
other public open spaces, buildings and structures, historic sites and
landmarks.
         e.   Existing improvements, including the location, capacity and size
of domestic water supply, water mains, sewer lines, culverts, drainage or farm
tile, towers, poles and other underground and aboveground facilities, also
indicating such data as locations and surface and invert grade elevations of
catch basins, manholes and fire hydrants. If water mains and sewers are not on
or adjacent to the tract, indicate the direction and distance to, and the size
of the nearest usable facilities. (If requested, additional drawings, maps or
photographs shall be submitted in order to accurately locate existing
features.)
         f.   Easements, including location, width and purpose.
         g.   Political boundaries, including corporate limits, school, park
and fire protection district boundaries and national and local historical
district boundaries.
      3.   Proposed Subdivision Design Features:
         a.   Proposed zoning.
         b.   Layout of streets, including right of way widths, street names
(not duplicating or similar to the name of any street heretofore used in Dundee
township unless such street is an extension or in line with an already named
street, in which event the name shall be used), and proposed through streets
extended to the boundaries of the subdivision and approximate grades and
gradients.
         c.   Other rights of way, including location and width of alleys,
pedestrianways, drainageways and utility and other easements.
         d.   Lots, including layout, number, dimension and area (in square
feet), for each lot in the subdivision.
         e.   Setback lines, including front and side street building setback
lines and dimensions.
         f.   Location of utilities, including proposed method of sewage and
waste disposal and location of sewer lines, water mains, storm water drains and
surface drainage for each lot or building area, and method of storm water
detention and retention.
         g.   Sites intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use or set
aside for use of property owners in the subdivision, including the conditions,
if any, of such dedication or reservation.
         h.   Land use designations, including sites for multiple-family
dwellings, shopping centers, churches, industry and other nonpublic uses
exclusive of single-family dwellings, with the approximate acreage of each
indicated.
         i.   The following certificate shall be shown in the lower right hand
corner of the preliminary plan:
   APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAN
The preliminary plan of a subdivision shown hereon has received approval by the
Board of Trustees of the Village of West Dundee, Illinois, and upon compliance
by the subdivider with requirements of qualifications governing the approval of
preliminary plans and with other revisions and stipulations that may be
required, the Village Board will receive the final plat for consideration when
submitted by the subdivider in such form and within such time as required by
the subdivision regulations of the Village, and approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission. Approval of the subdivision is only preliminary. Approval
allows the subdivider to prepare improvement plans and/or a final plat.
The Board of Trustees of the Village of West Dundee, Illinois.
Date:                     , 20    .
By:                          
    President
Attest:                          
            Village Clerk
   B.   Documents Required: In addition to the preliminary plan the applicant
shall submit the following documents:
      1.   Preliminary engineering report(s) and plan(s), but not limited to,
the consideration of the following:
         a.   Community or individual water facilities.
         b.   Streets and sidewalks.
         c.   Site grading and erosion and siltation control.
         d.   Storm sewers and drainage plan for the storage and controlled
release of storm water following a 100-year frequency storm.
         e.   Community or wastewater facilities. In acres where septic systems
are to be anticipated for the proposed method of waste disposal, evidence shall
be presented to indicate the suitability of soil for the purpose of septic
waste assimilation.
      2.   Evidence of ownership of the land proposed to be subdivided. Where
the subdivider does not own such land, written notarized permission from the
owner shall be provided authorizing the subdivider to subdivide such land under
the provisions of this title.
      3.   Letter of approval from the mortgagor.
      4.   Letter of approval from each utility company utilizing the proposed
easements.
      5.   Text of protective covenants, deed restrictions, homeowners'
association contracts and other restrictions whereby the subdivider proposes to
regulate land use in the subdivision and otherwise protect the proposed
development.
      6.   Environmental, fiscal and transportation impact reports and other
information as requested by the planning and zoning commission.
      7.   Natural resources inventory, prepared by the Kane-DuPage soil and
water conservation district as required by Illinois statute.
      8.   Soils report, prepared by a professional soils engineer, of
sufficient scope which addresses itself to the natural resources identified in
the report prepared by the Kane-DuPage soil and water conservation district;
and which determines potential ground absorption, runoff, flooding
deficiencies, the presence of unstable soils (or soils which may constitute
problems for conventional construction), the presence of subsurface rock that
would affect the installation of underground improvements on the provisions of
aboveground improvement. If, in the opinion of the village, additional soil
investigations, borings or other soil tests are necessary to determine the
nature and extent of such questionable material, the subdivider shall perform
the needed investigations.
   C.   Filing Review Fees:
      1.   Filing Fee: Upon submitting the preliminary plan, the applicant
shall pay to the village a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) per acre of land in
the area to be subdivided, but in no event less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00). There shall be no refund of any portion of the fee if the applicant
fails to apply for final approval of the subdivision.
      2.   Review Fee: During the review of the preliminary plan and documents
the village may submit the plan and documents to the village attorney,
consulting engineer or other technical consultant in order to obtain assistance
for the proper review of the plan. The applicant shall be notified that such
technical assistance has been retained and shall be required to pay for the
services rendered. Said fee for review services shall be set by the village at
a rate normally charged for such professional or technical service and shall
include all travel and other expenses normally charged to the village. The
applicant shall pay the village for services rendered no later than fifteen
(15) days from the date of the statement of fees due is issued to the
applicant.
   D.   Notification Of Local Governments: The applicant shall transmit copies
of the application for preliminary plan to School District 300, Dundee township
park district and fire protection district (if applicable) not less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled meeting of the planning and zoning
commission.
   E.   Notification Of Property Owners:
      1.   The applicant shall, not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than
thirty (30) days prior to the date of said meeting, serve written notice by
certified mail to the last known taxpayers as reflected in the county records
of all property within two hundred fifty feet (250') in each direction of the
property boundary for which the subdivision is requested; provided, the number
of feet occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys, rivers, creeks, schools,
parks and other public ways shall be excluded in computing the two hundred
fifty foot (250') requirement. The notices herein required shall contain the
address of the location for which the preliminary plan of subdivision is
requested, a brief statement of the nature of the request, the name and the
address of the legal and beneficial owner of the property, and time and date on
which said meeting shall be held. If, after a bona fide effort to determine
such by the applicant, the owner of the property on which the notice is served
cannot be found at his last known address or the mail notice is returned
because the owner cannot be found, the notice requirements of this section
shall be deemed satisfied. The applicant shall furnish, at the time of said
meeting, a written statement certifying that he has complied with the
requirements of this subsection. Attached to the written statement shall be a
copy of the notice sent and a list of all property owners notified in
accordance with the above. Also attached shall be the returned receipts of
those notices delivered and those notices which were undeliverable by the post
office.
      2.   The village shall publish, in a newspaper of general circulation,
notice of the time and place where the public may comment on the preliminary
plan. The notice shall be published in said newspaper not less than fifteen
(15) days prior to the public meeting where comments may be given.
   F.   Planning And Zoning Commission Consideration: The planning and zoning
commission shall review the preliminary plan and other documents with the
subdivider, citizens and other local government officials. In cases where the
subdivision of land involves a variation or exception from the zoning
regulations of the village, the planning and zoning commission shall direct the
applicant to submit the preliminary plan to the zoning board of appeals for
their review. Within ninety (90) days of the official filing of the preliminary
plan with the planning and zoning commission, unless such time is extended by
mutual consent, the planning and zoning commission shall recommend to the
village board for its action:
      1.   Approval or disapproval of the preliminary plan and shall submit its
written recommendations to the board of trustees and to the subdivider; or
      2.   Conditional approval of the preliminary plan, and shall submit its
recommendations and modifications to the board of trustees and to the
subdivider.
   G.   Board Of Trustees, Consideration: The board of trustees shall approve,
approve with conditions or disapprove the preliminary plan within thirty (30)
days after its next regularly scheduled meeting following the action of the
planning and zoning commission, unless such time is extended by mutual consent.
The subdivider shall, within thirty (30) days thereof, be notified in writing
of any conditions of approval or the reasons for rejection.
   H.   Effect Of Approval: Approval by the board of trustees at this stage
does not constitute acceptance of the subdivision. Approval of the preliminary
plan shall be:
      1.   Considered permission to prepare detailed plans and specifications
for such proposed subdivision and for all public improvements therein;
      2.   Effective for no more than twelve (12) months from the date approval
was granted unless, upon application of the subdivider within the period that
such approval is valid, the board of trustees grants an extension of time
beyond such period. The application for such extension shall not require an
additional filing fee.
If a final plat has not been approved as required by the provisions of this
title within such twelve (12) month period, or any extensions granted thereto,
the preliminary plan must be resubmitted to the planning and zoning commission
as if such plan had never been approved.
   I.   Small Subdivisions, Requirement Exceptions: For a proposed subdivision
involving a land area of one acre or less, the applicant may proceed directly
to the final plat submittal stage without filing a preliminary plan; provided,
that all applicable filing and review fees have been paid. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
11-3-3: INSTALLATION OF SURVEY MONUMENTS:
After approval of the preliminary plan and before undertaking other measures
leading to approval of the final plat, survey monuments and markers shall be
laid out and set according to the following:
   A.   Permanent monuments shall be placed at all corners and at points
tangent to curve lines along the boundary of the subdivision. Permanent
monuments shall be constructed of concrete, the minimum dimensions of which
shall be four inches by four inches (4" x 4") at the top of the monument and
six inches by six inches (6" x 6") at the bottom; such monument shall be a
minimum of thirty six inches (36") long, with an iron dowel at least three-
eighths inch (3/8") in diameter and two and one-half inches (21/2") in length
embedded in the top of such monument so that the dowel shall be flush with the
surface of the monument and placed in the center of the monument.
   B.   Where concrete monuments are not required to be placed, all corner
lots, the ends of all curves, all angle points in any line and all angle points
along a meander line shall be marked by galvanized or wrought iron pipe at
least twenty four inches (24") long and not less than one-half inch (1/2") in
diameter. The top of such pipe shall be set level with the established grade of
the lot.
   C.   For each twenty (20) acres or fraction thereof in such subdivision, one
permanent bench mark shall be established at a location designated by the
village engineer. This bench mark shall be constructed of concrete, four inches
by four inches (4" x 4") at the top, six inches by six inches (6" x 6") at the
bottom and forty eight inches (48") in length with a brass plate securely
fastened to the surface. The brass plate shall be exposed about one inch (1")
above final grade and shall be inscribed with the number and elevation of the
bench mark. All U.S., state, county or other official bench marks, monuments or
triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
precise position. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-3-4: IMPROVEMENT PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Preparation; Scale And Provisions: After the installation of survey
monuments and markers, unless required sooner, and prior to the submission of a
final plat, the subdivider shall prepare detailed plans and specifications for
all improvements required to be constructed under the provisions of chapters 4
and 5 of this title.
   B.   Preliminary Review: The plans and specifications for required
improvements shall be submitted to the village. The planning and zoning
commission shall review said plans and specifications to determine their
compliance with the provisions of this and other applicable requirements. Such
plans and specifications may also be reviewed by appropriate state, county and
local officials and utility companies where the planning and zoning commission
determines that the additional input is necessary or desirable in evaluating
the proposed improvements. Following the aforesaid review the planning and
zoning commission shall transmit said plans and specifications to the board of
trustees, accompanied by their recommendations.
   C.   Storm Water Improvements; Notice Required: Where a proposed storm water
improvement may result in changes to an existing storm water carrying system of
neighboring upstream or downstream communities, copies of the storm water
improvement plans and specifications shall be submitted to the affected
communities. Where the proposed improvement may affect the storm water carrying
system of a site occupied by or planned for development by a school and/or park
district, copies of the plans and specifications shall be forwarded to the
affected districts. The affected communities and/or taxing districts shall be
given written notification of such proposed improvements and shall be requested
to respond to the village having jurisdiction over the proposed improvements.
Such response shall be submitted in writing within fifteen (15) days upon
receipt of such request. If any alterations to the plans and specifications are
requested by the affected communities and/or taxing districts, and if such
alterations are in accordance with the plans and standards of such affected
local governments, the village having jurisdiction may require the applicant to
revise the plans and specifications in accordance with the requests of the
affected governments.
   D.   Review Fees: During the review of the preliminary plan and documents
the village may submit the plan and documents to the village attorney,
consulting engineer or other technical consultant in order to obtain assistance
for the proper review of the plan. The applicant shall be notified that such
technical assistance has been retained and shall be required to pay for the
services rendered. Said fee for review services shall be set by the village at
a rate normally charged for such professional or technical service and shall
include travel and other expenses normally charged to the village prior to the
consideration of the plans and specifications for required improvements by the
village board, the subdivider shall reimburse the village for the fees involved
in the review and processing of said plans and specifications.
   E.   Board Of Trustees, Final Approval: If the board of trustees finds that
the plans and specifications for required improvements comply with the
provisions of this and other applicable ordinances, it shall grant final
approval to such plans and specifications. The village president shall sign the
plans and specifications, and the village clerk shall attest such signatures.
Final approval, however, shall not constitute acceptance of the improvements by
the village. Such acceptance shall be governed by the provisions of chapter 6
of this title. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-3-5: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Preparation; Scale And Provisions: After the installation of survey
monuments and markers, a final plat of subdivision shall be prepared. The final
plat may constitute only a portion of the approved preliminary plan if it is
determined acceptable by the planning and zoning commission after consideration
by the planning and zoning commission of the effect on the continuity of roads,
utilities and services. The final plat shall be accurately and legibly prepared
with waterproof, nonfading ink, on a tracing cloth or Mylar, reproducible
print, measuring not less than eight and one-half inches by fourteen inches
(81/2" x 14") nor more than thirty inches by thirty six inches (30" x 36") 1 ,
at the same scale as the preliminary plan, and shall be used as the original
copy of such final plat for the purposes of formal execution, approval and
recording. The final plat shall include the following information:
      1.   Date of preparation of the final plat and by whom prepared.
      2.   Seal and certification of land surveyor.
      3.   Scale, which shall be one hundred feet to the inch (1" = 100') or
fifty feet to the inch (1" = 50') if the area of subdivision is less than forty
(40) acres.
      4.   North point.
      5.   Legal description.
      6.   Layout of streets, showing right of way widths, street names and the
length of all streets as measured at the centerline, and the location and
widths of all crosswalkways. The location, right of way widths and names of all
streets adjoining the plat shall also be shown.
      7.   All easements established for public use and utility rights of way,
with approval of the utility companies marked on the plat.
      8.   All block and lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions given
in hundredths of feet.
      9.   Proposed building setback lines on all lots and other sites.
      10.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of all areas dedicated or
reserved for public use, with the deed to be transferred included; and all
areas to be reserved by deed covenant for the common use of all property
owners, together with the proposed uses indicated thereon.
      11.   Water elevations of all lakes and streams, within or adjoining the
tract, at the date of survey and the approximate high and low water elevations
of such lakes or streams. All elevations shall be referred approximately to
USGS datum. If the subdivision borders on a lake or stream, the distances and
bearing of a meander line established not less than twenty feet (20') back from
the average high water mark of the lake or stream, as determined from flood
hazard maps or other data, with said distances noted.
      12.   Accurate angular and linear dimensions for all lines, angles, radii
and arcs used to describe all boundaries including perimeter survey of tract,
streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved or dedicated for public use,
and other important features. Error of closure of boundary line surveys shall
not exceed one in ten thousand (1 inch for each 10,000 inches of perimeter
survey). Angular error shall not exceed plus or minus twenty (±20) seconds.
      13.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines
and official monuments (not less than 3), which shall be accurately described
in the plat by location, size and elevation, to which all dimensions, angles,
bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referred.
      14.   Municipal, township, county and section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
   B.   Filing; Required Documents: Within one year after approval of the
preliminary plan, the subdivider shall submit the following documents to the
village for planning and zoning commission and village board consideration.
      1.   Fifteen (15) copies of the completed application for final plat
approval.
      2.   The original tracing cloth or Mylar of the final plat, which shall
be returned to the applicant upon final plat approval for recording with the
county recorder of deeds.
      3.   One copy of the final plat, drawn on sepia for future use by the
village in its planning and development activities.
      4.   Fifteen (15) copies of the final plat of subdivision to be used for
review by village officials.
      5.   Fifteen (15) copies of the plans and specifications for all
improvements required under chapter 4 of this title.
      6.   Filing fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      7.   Reimbursement statement, whereby the subdivider agrees to reimburse
the village for the review of the final plat submittals. Such fees shall be
paid by the subdivider prior to final plat approval.
      8.   Performance guarantee, in the amount equal to one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of the estimated costs of the required subdivision
improvements as approved by the village, in order to ensure that the work is
completed and performed according to the plans and specifications, and
according to good engineering practices. Such guarantee shall be in accordance
with chapter 6 of this title.
      9.   Inspection statement, whereby the subdivider agrees to provide
inspection in accordance with chapter 6 of this title.
      10.   Deposit for village inspection.
      11.   Text of protective covenants, deed restrictions, homeowners'
association contracts and other restrictions relating to any part of the
proposed subdivision, including, but not limited to, building restrictions, use
restrictions, building setback lines, buffer areas, common open spaces,
maintenance of improvements as applicable.
      12.   Final plat checklist, signed by the applicant indicating that all
items necessary for review have been submitted.
      13.   The final plat shall not be considered until the following
certificates have been duly executed:
         a.   Owner's certificate.
         b.   Surveyor's certificate.
         c.   Certificate of special assessments.
         d.   County clerk's certificate.
The final plat shall be considered officially filed when the planning and
zoning commission determines that it contains all the information essential for
its proper review according to the provisions of this title.
   C.   Planning And Zoning Commission, Consideration: Within thirty (30) days
from the date of final plat submittal, unless such time is extended by mutual
consent, the planning and zoning commission shall determine if the final plat
meets all applicable village requirements. If the planning and zoning
commission finds that the final plat is not in accordance with the village
requirements, it shall disapprove such plat and provide written notification to
the board of trustees stating the reasons for such disapproval. If the planning
and zoning commission determines that the final plat meets all applicable
village requirements, it shall affix upon the final plat the certifying
signature of its chairman and its secretary, and shall submit the final plat
and accompanying documents to the board of trustees. The planning and zoning
commission may also recommend that the village board consider other provisions
prior to final plat approval.
   D.   Board Of Trustees, Consideration: When final plat and accompanying
documents have been forwarded to the board of trustees by the planning and
zoning commission, the board of trustees shall consider said plat to be
officially filed. Within sixty (60) days from the date of official filing,
unless such time is extended by mutual consent, the board of trustees shall
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the final plat. If the final plat
is approved, the chairman shall affix his signature to such plat in the space
provided and the village clerk shall attest such signature. If the final plat
is approved, the chairman shall affix his signature to such plat in the space
provided and the village clerk shall attest such signature. If the final plat
is disapproved, the subdivider shall be given written notification of the
reasons for such disapproval. The board of trustees, pursuant to its police
power to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the village, may
attach conditions to the final plat approval such as special restrictions to be
incorporated into the plat of subdivision and all deed documents.
   E.   Plat Recording Requirement: Upon approval of the final plat by the
village board, the final plat shall be recorded within sixty (60) days thereof
with the recorder of deeds of Kane County, Illinois. If such recording is not
effected within such time, the approval by the village board shall become null
and void, in which case the deposits for surface improvements held by the
village shall be refunded in full to the depositor, without interest. The
recording of the final plat is a requirement for the selling of land or lots in
the subdivision and for the issuance of any building permit. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
 
Notes
1 1. 24 inches by 26 inches preferred.
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Introduction
11-4-2: Required Improvements
11-4-3: Design Computations
11-4-4: Streets
11-4-5: Easement Standards
11-4-6: Residential District Standards
11-4-7: Business District Standards
11-4-8: Office And Research District And Industrial District Standards
11-4-9: Building Setback Lines
11-4-10: Resubdivisions
11-4-11: Frontage Roads And Major Street Access
11-4-12: Survey Bench Marks And Markers
11-4-1: INTRODUCTION:
The subdividing of land, including the arrangement, character, extent, width,
grade and location of all streets, alleys, or other land to be dedicated for
public use shall conform to the comprehensive plan of the village. This chapter
establishes guidelines in order to ensure the orderly development and
improvement of land within the jurisdiction of the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
11-4-2: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
No final plat of any subdivision shall be approved unless and until the plans
and specifications for the required improvements to be constructed have been
approved which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Storm Water Drainage And Detention Facilities: Storm sewer, storm water
detention facilities, open channels, if allowed and all necessary appurtenances
thereto, to accept and convey all storm water runoff on all lots in accordance
with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Sanitary Sewerage Facilities: Sanitary sewers, appurtenances and
pumping stations and force mains as may be required shall be sized to serve all
lots and designed to provide for future expansion or extension of system
services in accordance with the provisions of this title.
   C.   Water Distribution System: Water distribution mains, services, and
appurtenances sized to serve and provide for fire protection for all lots and
designed for future expansion or extension of system service in accordance with
the provisions of this title.
   D.   Street Layout And Geometric Design: All streets shall be designed to be
compatible with existing and proposed streets, topographical conditions, and
public convenience and safety.
   E.   Curb And Gutter: Combination concrete curbs and gutters shall be
provided on both sides of all public and private streets.
   F.   Sidewalks: Concrete sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of all
public and private streets and cul-de-sacs. Sidewalks without parkways between
the back of curbs and the lot property line are prohibited.
   G.   Street Lighting: Street lighting systems shall be installed for all
public and private streets.
   H.   Street Signs: Street signs and traffic control signs shall be installed
to identify all public and private streets and bike paths.
   I.   Bike Paths: Bike paths to serve proposed parks and areas designated in
the comprehensive plan and shall be designed in accordance with the provisions
of this title.
   J.   Landscaping: All parkways and medians within any dedicated street area
or any other area of public use shall be landscaped in accordance with the
provisions of this title.
   K.   Grading And Drainage Of All Lots: The grading of all lots and streets
shall be designed to provide positive drainage and to prevent excess ponding of
surface water in the event of a complete failure of the storm sewer system. The
grading of lots shall be kept within a range of slope running from two percent
(2%) to five percent (5%).
   L.   Public Utilities: All public utility lines for electronic sounds and
signals, telephone, electric and gas services shall be placed entirely
underground and in compliance with standard engineering procedures adopted by
the franchised utility and electric code, latest edition.
   M.   Erosion, Sedimentation And Dust Control: All subdivisions shall have a
planned program for erosion, sedimentation and dust control during
construction.
   N.   Foundations And Floor Elevations Of All Structures To Be Constructed On
Any Lot: Elevations of structures shall be shown on the plans so as to assure
adequate provisions for the control of underground, surface, and runoff water.
The plans shall conform to the standards of floodplain regulations of the
village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-4-3: DESIGN COMPUTATIONS:
   A.   The engineer shall submit copies of design computations for required
improvements which shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
      1.   Storm water detention reservoir capacity and outlet control design.
      2.   Structural design of pavements.
      3.   The design of water main sizes, maximum day flow demands and fire
flow determinations.
      4.   Design of inlet spacing, storm sewer systems and open channels.
      5.   Design of sanitary sewer systems.
      6.   Structural design for storm sewer, sanitary sewer, and water
conduit.
      7.   Design of street lighting systems.
      8.   Development improvement cost estimate.
   B.   The design computation shall be prepared in legible format that can be
readily followed, including design assumptions, references, catalog cuts and
other relevant data.
   C.   The design computations for required improvements shall be submitted
with the preliminary plan. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-4-4: STREETS:
   A.   General Design Criteria:
      1.   The minimum widths of right of way for streets to be dedicated or
established shall conform to section
11-5-7 of this title.
      2.   Local streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged. In residential subdivisions with the lot having frontage
on both a local street and a major or collector street, the covenants for the
subdivision shall prohibit the installation of driveways along the property
line of the lot which forms the line of the major or collector street.
      3.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') are prohibited.
      4.   Cul-de-sacs shall have a maximum length of five hundred feet (500')
measured along the centerline from the intersection at origin, through center
of circle to end of right of way. Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of
nearly circular shape with a minimum right of way diameter of one hundred ten
feet (110').
      5.   Half streets shall be permitted only where essential for reasonable
development in conformity with the other requirements of this title, and where
the corporate authorities find it will be practicable to require the dedication
of the other half when the adjoining property is platted. Wherever a half
street exists adjacent to a tract to be developed, the remaining portion
required for completion of the street shall be placed within such tract. No
strip or area shall be reserved along any portion of a street, half street, or
alley which will prevent adjacent property owners access thereto.
      6.   No street names may be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets in the Dundee postal district. Existing street
names must be extended wherever possible. Streets within a subdivision cannot
be named after the developer or the name of the project unless said street is
within said development and cannot be extended into other developments.
      7.   Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed
major street, the corporate authorities may require a frontage road for
protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and
local traffic. If a frontage road is required, then screening, landscaping, or
both shall be required in a strip of land reserved to prevent access to the
major street, between intersections, having a minimum width of ten feet (10').
      8.   If the tract of land proposed to be developed, or any part thereof
lies adjacent to a highway over which the department of transportation of the
state of Illinois, the county of Kane, or the township of Dundee has
jurisdiction with respect to maintenance and upkeep thereof and an entrance or
entrances are desired from such highway to lots, streets, roadway or alleys in
the proposed subdivision, the developer shall submit to the village a written
permit from the appropriate jurisdiction granting permission to obtain and
construct such an entrance or entrances.
      9.   Alleys may be required in business, office and research, and
industrial districts unless provisions are made for service access, such as,
off street loading, unloading and parking, consistent with and adequate for the
uses proposed. Alleys shall be prohibited in residential areas except where
topographic or other conditions may necessitate their use. The minimum width of
an alley right of way shall not be less than twenty five feet (25'). The
minimum alley pavement width shall be twenty feet (20'). Dead end alleys are
prohibited.
      10.   Developments planned to be constructed adjacent to existing ones
shall be designed to accept the alignment and corresponding widths of existing
pavements. The village shall determine proper adjustment which shall be made
where the widenings merge with the existing narrow pavement at the boundary of
the property and require that the lanes are painted to designate driving and
parking lanes.
      11.   Major or collector streets shall be provided if shown on the
comprehensive plan or required by the village. Final approval of the major and
collector street system will include consideration of topography, land use,
existing roadways, recommendations of the comprehensive plan, and other factors
which may be unique to the site.
      12.   Clear visibility, measured along the centerline of the street shall
be provided for at least three hundred fifty feet (350') on all major streets,
two hundred feet (200') on collector and local streets.
      13.   It must be evidenced that all street intersections and confluences
encourage safe traffic flow.
      14.   Gradients of streets shall be a minimum of one-half percent (0.5%)
and shall not exceed five percent (5%). Street grades shall be such as to
provide natural surface drainage of stormwater regardless of the presence of
storm sewer facilities. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-4-5: EASEMENT STANDARDS:
Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided
for utilities and street lighting, electronic sounds and signals, drainage or
other public use, and shall be at least ten feet (10') wide for each use.
Easements shall be so laid out so that a proper continuity shall be provided
from lot to lot and from block to block. In addition, due provisions for
extension of easements to adjacent areas shall be made. Where a development is
traversed by a water course, drainageway, channel or stream there shall be
provided a stormwater easement or drainage right of way conforming
substantially with the lines of such water course, and such further width
required for construction and maintenance, as will be adequate for the purpose
and approved by the village. Easements for pedestrianways or bike paths must be
a minimum of twenty feet (20') in width. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-4-6: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT STANDARDS:
   A.   Blocks:
      1.   The maximum length of residential blocks is one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500'). Blocks over eight hundred feet (800') may require a
pedestrianway or bike path easement or right of way. Bike path pavements shall
not be less than eight feet (8') in width. The use of additional pedestrianways
or bike paths in any instance to provide safe and convenient access to schools,
parks, or other similar destinations may be recommended by the planning and
zoning commission and required by the corporate authorities. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989; amd. Ord. 2014-14, 5-19-2014)
      2.   No specific rule concerning the shape of blocks is made, but blocks
must fit easily within the platted area and their design must evidence
consideration of lot planning, traffic flow, and public areas.
   B.   Lots:
      1.   All side lot lines in residential districts shall be at right angles
to the straight street lines unless a modification to this requirement will
give a better street and lot plan. Double frontage and reverse frontage lots
shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential
development from major streets. All residential lots shall abut on a publicly
dedicated street. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
      2.   The minimum area of lots shall be as provided in title 10, chapter
4, "Residential Districts", of this code except that all single-family
residential lots platted after August 1, 1989, shall contain a minimum of
fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet and shall have a minimum lot width of one
hundred feet (100') at the front building line. (Ord. 89-09, 7-10-1989)
      3.   The minimum width of residential lots shall be as provided in the
zoning ordinance of the village.
      4.   Where lots front upon a cul-de-sac or curved road or street having a
radius of two hundred feet (200') or less, the minimum width of the frontage of
the lot may be measured at the building setback line, with width at said right
of way line to be not less than fifty percent (50%) of the width required by
the zoning ordinance, the width being measured on the arc of the street right
of way line.
      5.   The areas of the street right of way, whether dedicated to the
public or a private street or easement for street purposes, shall not be
included in calculating the area of the lot to be in accordance with the
minimum lot area requirements of the zoning district in which the lot is
located. The lot shall also have a width and a depth entirely adequate to
provide the necessary yard requirements of the zoning ordinance. Lots with an
area greater than the minimum required area are desired.
      6.   Lots facing upon major street intersections and at other
intersections where access to the lots may interfere with intersection
improvements shall be given special planning. The final plat shall indicate the
location for access to all such lots.
      7.   Lots abutting a water course, drainageway, channel or stream shall
have additional minimum width or depth in order to provide an adequate building
site and provide the minimum usable area required in the zoning ordinance for
front, rear, and side yards. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-4-7: BUSINESS DISTRICT STANDARDS:
The minimum standards for areas zoned for business use shall be in accordance
with the requirements of this title and the zoning ordinance of the village.
These standards shall apply regardless of whether the business district is
platted for sale in lots, tracts or parcels, or is planned to be held in one
ownership and leased. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-4-8: OFFICE AND RESEARCH DISTRICT AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT STANDARDS:
The minimum standards for areas zoned for office and research and industrial
use shall be in accordance with the requirements of this title and the zoning
ordinance of the village. These standards shall apply regardless of whether the
office and research or industrial district is platted for sale in lots, tracts
or parcels, or is planned to be held in one ownership and leased. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
11-4-9: BUILDING SETBACK LINES:
Minimum building setback lines shall be shown on all preliminary plans and
final plats. Building setback lines on lots adjacent to major streets or
potential major streets may be required to be more than required by the zoning
ordinance if the village determines that additional right of way may be
required in the future. Building lines for territory outside the incorporated
limits, but within the jurisdiction of the comprehensive plan, shall conform to
the provisions of the applicable county ordinance, except that in no instance
shall the building setback line be less than provided for in the zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-4-10: RESUBDIVISIONS:
In case of resubdivision of land where required improvements are already
installed which meet the provisions of this title, no duplication of such
improvements shall be required; provided however, that where such improvements
have become worn, broken, defective or do not meet village standards, the owner
or developer shall be required to repair and correct such defects or
deficiencies. If property for which an application to resubdivide has been
presented abuts on or contains an existing public street which has a width of
pavement less than that required by this title, the owner or developer shall
dedicate additional land sufficient to provide the additional pavement to bring
the street width up to the minimum standards of this title including the
relocation of any water, storm sewer, sanitary sewer, or other public utilities
involved, if any, before the approval of the property for resubdivision. The
necessary dedication shall be located on the side of the street that the
developer is building on. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-4-11: FRONTAGE ROADS AND MAJOR STREET ACCESS:
   A.   The complete design for frontage roads, including specification and
designation of trafficways, driving lanes, parking lanes, paving widths,
thickness, and materials shall be submitted with the final plat.
   B.   Whenever a frontage road is to be dedicated to public use, it shall
conform to the requirements of this title for other streets of similar nature.
   C.   No development is permitted in which more than one owner is to use the
same private frontage road or parking lot unless a covenant with authority for
use and maintenance of such private frontage road or parking lot is recorded
and approved by the corporate authorities.
   D.   Where possible, a minimum distance of seven hundred fifty feet (750')
shall be required between points of ingress and egress to a major street where
all property to be developed is under one ownership.
   E.   Where property has frontage on a county, state, or federal highway, the
spacing and design of the points of ingress and egress to the major street
shall be subject to the approval of the district engineer, Illinois department
of transportation, or the superintendent of highways, Kane County highway
department. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-4-12: SURVEY BENCH MARKS AND MARKERS 1 :
   A.   Permanent bench marks shall be placed at every quarter (1/4) mile
interval at each north-south and east-west direction.
   B.   One permanent bench mark in each development.
   C.   The permanent bench mark shall be a brass disc set in concrete, eight
inches (8") in diameter at the top and twelve inches (12") at the bottom by
forty eight inches (48") deep concrete cast in place with one no. 4 vertical
reinforcing rod on its center.
   D.   The bench marks and markers shall be set level with the finished grade.
   E.   The proposed bench mark shall be in USGS datum, and shall be inscribed
with the number and elevation. USGS datum elevation shall be checked against at
least two (2) of the reference mark elevations denoted in the flood insurance
study prepared for the village by the flood insurance administration. The
result of the closure survey shall be reported in writing to the village. The
reference marks used for this survey and their elevations shall be denoted on
the cover sheet of the development plans.
   F.   Permanent monuments shall be constructed as denoted on the final plat.
Permanent monuments shall be constructed in accordance with the standards for
permanent bench marks.
   G.   Iron pipe markers of three-quarters inch (3/4") in diameter and twenty
four inches (24") long shall be set at all corners, angle points, and points of
curvature of lots and streets by a registered land surveyor.
   H.   The developer shall replace or verify the existence of all iron pipes
after the completion of all construction and before initial acceptance of the
development by the corporate authorities. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. See exhibit 101 on file at the village hall.
CHAPTER 5
DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS 1
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Provisions
11-5-2: Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control
11-5-3: Drainage And Storm Sewer System
11-5-4: Stormwater Detention Facilities (Rep. by Ord. 2009-03, 3-16-2009)
11-5-5: Sanitary Sewer System
11-5-6: Water Distribution System Construction Standards
11-5-7: Street Pavements, Curb And Gutter Construction Standards
11-5-8: Sidewalks And Driveway Aprons
11-5-9: Bike Paths
11-5-10: Street Lighting System
11-5-11: Signage
11-5-12: Landscaping
11-5-13: Lot Grading
11-5-14: Public Utilities
11-5-15: Parking Lots
11-5-16: Protection And Restoration Requirements
11-5-17: Model Homes
 
Notes
1 1. The exhibits referenced in this chapter are on file at the village hall.
11-5-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Unless specifically stated otherwise in this title, the following
standard specifications shall provide the minimum requirements applicable to
construction within the village.
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction, Illinois
Department Of Transportation", latest edition.
      2.   "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois", latest edition.
      3.   Applicable sections of the "American Water Works Association
Standards".
In the event of conflict between the contents of the following standard
specifications and this title, this title shall govern.
   B.   The requirements contained herein and in the references, specifications
and standards are considered minimum requirements. The village in the review of
the plans and specifications and the inspection of the installation of the
improvements may require additional work or information if, in the village's
opinion, it is necessary to meet good engineering practice.
   C.   All improvements shall be in compliance with all applicable ordinances
of the village.
   D.   All improvements proposed shall be in accordance with the regulations
of any public body having jurisdiction over the improvement. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
11-5-2: SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL:
   A.   All developments, whether private or public, shall include a planned
program for the positive control of erosion, sedimentation, and dust during the
construction period. This control program shall be furnished to the village for
review.
   B.   The developer or owner shall adhere to the standards and requirements
established for soil erosion and sedimentation control. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-5-3: DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWER SYSTEM:
   A.   General: All developments, whether public or private shall include
provisions for the construction of storm sewers and appurtenances designed in
accordance with this title and in accordance with title 12 of this code. In the
case of conflicting regulations the most stringent regulations shall apply.
Interpretation of this section shall be at the discretion of the village.
   B.   Service Areas: All storm sewers, streams or channels shall be designed
to accommodate all areas which naturally flow to the area of the development
and all additional areas which are planned to contribute to the drainage area
if identified by the village. If the ultimate service area results in
additional construction costs within the development, a written agreement may
be made with the corporate authorities for the recapture by the developer of
the additional cost when future system extensions are made. Recapture payments
will be made to the developer only after the person benefiting from the
improvements has made payment to the village.
   C.   Basic Design Standards:
      1.   Storm Sewer, Stream Improvement And Open Channel Hydraulics:
         a.   Design mean velocity shall not exceed the following:
            (1)   Storm sewers: Ten feet (10') per second.
            (2)   Open channels, concrete or asphalt lining: Ten feet (10') per
second.
            (3)   Open channels, sodded: Five feet (5') per second.
            (4)   Outlet velocity from sewers shall not exceed five feet (5')
per second.
         b.   Storm sewer, including manholes, shall be constructed so that
infiltration will not exceed one thousand three hundred (1,300) gallons per
inch diameter of sewer per mile per twenty four (24) hour day at any time for
any section of the system.
      2.   Minimum Size: Irrespective of design considerations the minimum
permissible size of storm sewers are as follows:
         a.   Storm sewers serving inlets shall not be less than twelve inch
(12") diameter.
         b.   Storm sewer service lines for sump pumps, roof drains, and other
uses where provided, shall not be less than six inches (6") diameter.
      3.   Alignment: Sewer shall be laid straight in both horizontal and
vertical planes between manholes, unless otherwise approved by the village.
      4.   Sewer Size Changes: Storm sewer of different diameters shall join
only at structures. The invert elevations shall be adjusted to maintain a
uniform energy gradient by matching the 0.8 depth points of the different
diameter.
      5.   Stormwater Inlets:
         a.   Surface drainage inlets shall be provided so that surface water
is not carried across any street intersections. Surface runoff shall not extend
a distance of more than four hundred feet (400') along the surface of the
ground and shall not build up a flow of more than two (2) cubic feet per second
in a 10-year storm before being intercepted by drainage inlets. Inlets shall
discharge into storm sewers which shall not discharge into side lot or rear lot
drainage ditches. Inlets shall be provided at all low points.
         b.   Rear yard inlets having a minimum depth of two feet (2') shall be
provided where necessary.
      6.   Building Drainage:
         a.   Building elevations shall be established so that surface drainage
is from the building to lot line swales, which shall merge as quickly as
possible and then discharge into a storm sewer or other approved drainage
system. The route of overland flow of surface water away from each building
site into swales, ditches and storm sewers, to where it leaves the site, shall
be shown on the plans.
         b.   Where lots cannot be adequately drained, inlets with connection
to the storm sewer system shall be provided.
      7.   Vacant Lot Drainage: Positive drainage shall be established for each
lot whether or not it is the intention to construct a building on that lot.
      8.   Storm Sewer Manholes:
         a.   Manholes shall be located as follows:
            (1)   At the termination of all sewers which do not terminate at a
catch basin or inlet.
            (2)   Changes in direction, horizontal or vertical.
            (3)   Changes in shape or pipe size.
            (4)   Junctions with other storm sewers.
            (5)   Access spacing shall be:
 
Sewer Pipe Size (In Inches) Maximum Interval (In Feet)
   12 – 24             350
   27 – 36             500
   42 – 54             600
   60 or larger          1,000
 
         b.   Where flows and other conditions dictate, special manholes or
junction chambers shall be designed and constructed.
      9.   Storm Sewer Depth: Storm sewers shall be constructed sufficiently
deep so as to prevent freezing and to provide an outfall for all stormwater
within the ultimate service area. The minimum cover shall be three feet (3')
for storm sewers and eighteen inches (18") for culverts and catch basin leads.
Where storm sewers are not required, the minimum length of corrugated metal
culverts shall equal the width of the pavement crossed plus eight feet (8')
plus eight (8) times the depth of the ditch.
      10.   Sewer Pipe Class: Sewer pipe class shall be determined based upon
the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", latest edition.
      11.   Sewer Pipe And Culvert Bedding:
         a.   Sewer pipe and culvert bedding shall, as a minimum, conform to
the requirements shown on exhibit nos. 202 and 202-A.
         b.   Sewer pipe concrete cradle, arch, or fill encasement shall be
constructed whenever dictated by trench or embankment conditions.
      12.   Swales: All swales shall be sodded or seeded and blanketed and
limited to a maximum water depth of twenty four inches (24"). Maximum side
slopes of swales shall not be steeper than four horizontal to one vertical (4:
1).
      13.   Open Channels:
         a.   Open channels are not permitted in lieu of storm sewers, unless
approved by the director of public works. Existing streams, flowing and
intermittent, shall remain open channels unless otherwise approved by the
village.
         b.   All existing open channels located within a development shall
remain in substantially the same alignment as prior to development.
   D.   Material Specifications: All storm sewer system elements shall conform
to the following specifications:
      1.   Sewer Pipe:
         a.   Service connection if proposed - ABS sewer pipe or PVC sewer pipe
ASTM D2751, SDR35, or ASTM D3034, SDR35, respectively.
         b.   Concrete sewer pipe (12 inch diameter and smaller), minimum class
3, ASTM C14.
         c.   Reinforced concrete pipe (12 inch diameter and larger), circular
reinforcement, minimum class 3, wall B, ASTM C76.
         d.   Reinforced concrete arch culvert pipe - Double line
reinforcement, minimum class 3, ASTM C506.
         e.   Reinforced concrete elliptical culvert pipe - Minimum class HE-
III or VE-III, ASTM C507.
         f.   PVC under drain pipe (4 inch and 6 inch) - ASTM D2729, SDR35.
         g.   Galvanized corrugated steel culvert pipe - AASHTO M246, type B,
minimum wall thickness 14 gauge. (Shall only be used for culverts.)
      2.   Sewer Pipe Joints:
         a.   ABS pipe - ASTM C443.
         b.   PVC pipe - ASTM D3212, push on type, except under drain pipe
which shall have solvent welded joints.
         c.   Reinforced concrete pipe - ASTM C443. (O-ring).
         d.   Reinforced arch or elliptical pipe - ASTM C877.
      3.   Casing Pipes: Steel pipe - ASTM A120, three-eighths inch (3/8")
minimum thickness.
      4.   Manholes (Exhibit No. 203 Or 204):
         a.   Material: Precast reinforced concrete - ASTM C478 and ASTM C443.
         b.   Size: For sewer eighteen inch (18") diameter or less, manhole
shall have a forty eight inch (48") inside diameter. For sewer twenty one inch
(21") to thirty six inch (36") diameter, manhole shall have a sixty inch (60")
inside diameter. For sewer greater than thirty six inch (36") diameter, manhole
shall have an offset riser pipe of forty eight inch (48") inside diameter.
         c.   Adjustment: No more than three (3) precast concrete adjusting
rings with nine inch (9") maximum height adjustment shall be allowed.
         d.   Pipe And Frame Seals: All pipe connection openings shall be
precast with resilient rubber watertight pipe to manhole sleeves or seals.
External flexible watertight sleeves shall also extend from the manhole cone to
the manhole frame.
         e.   Bottom Sections: All bottom sections shall be monolithically
precast including bases and invert flow lines.
      5.   Inlets (Exhibit No. 205):
         a.   Material: Precast reinforced concrete - ASTM C478 and ASTM C443.
         b.   Size: Inlets shall have twenty four inches (24") inside diameter
and a maximum depth of four feet (4').
         c.   Adjustment: No more than two (2) precast concrete adjusting rings
with six inch (6") maximum height adjustment shall be allowed.
         d.   Pipe And Frame Seals: Only one pipe connection is allowed and it
shall be precast with resilient rubber watertight pipe to manhole sleeves or
seals. External flexible watertight sleeves shall also extend from the manhole
cone to the manhole frame.
         e.   Bottom Sections: All bottom sections shall be monolithically
precast including bases and invert flow lines.
      6.   Castings:
         a.   Manhole frame and cover - Neenah no. R-1772-C embossed "STORM
SEWER" and "VILLAGE OF WEST DUNDEE" with a lid design as shown on exhibit no.
206.
         b.   Manhole steps - Neenah no. R-1981-I.
         c.   Six inch (6") curb and gutter inlet - Neenah no. R-3502-B.
         d.   Yard inlet - Neenah no. R-2579.
         e.   Parking lot inlet - Neenah no. R-2077C.
      7.   Crushed Granular Bedding (Exhibit No. 202): Aggregate for bedding
shall be FA1, FA2, or FA6.
      8.   Headwalls (Exhibits No. 207 Or 208): All pipes shall terminate at
reinforced concrete headwalls in accordance with the "Standard Specifications
For Road And Bridge Construction", latest edition.
   E.   Inspection And Test:
      1.   Cleaning: All sewers and appurtenances shall be cleaned prior to
inspection and testing required by this title.
      2.   Visual Inspection:
         a.   All sewer and appurtenances shall be visually inspected by
representatives of the developer during and following construction.
         b.   Sewers designed to be straight between manholes will be tested
for straightness by flashing a light from manhole to manhole, lamping or by
other suitable means.
      3.   Television Inspections:
         a.   Upon completion of construction and prior to initiation of the
maintenance guarantee period, a color television inspection shall be performed
on the sections or portions of the storm sewer as directed and supervised by
the village. Videotapes and a written report of all television inspections
shall be provided to the village prior to the initial acceptance provided for
by this title. The form of the report and type and format of the videotape
shall be approved by the village.
         b.   All fees and costs associated with television inspections shall
be paid for by the developer or owner.
         c.   All defects and corrective work required as the result of
television inspection shall be performed by the developer without delay, and at
no cost to the village. After repairs are made, the storm sewer shall be
televised at the locations of repairs and videotapes furnished to the village.
      4.   Infiltration Testing:
         a.   It is the intent of this title to construct a storm sewer system
with a minimum amount of infiltration, when a storm sewer is constructed below
the natural water table elevation. The following requirements will apply when,
in the opinion of the village, the storm sewer will be affected by infiltration
of ground water. The maximum allowable infiltration shall not exceed one
thousand three hundred (1,300) gallons per inch of diameter of sewer per mile
per twenty four (24) hour day at any time for any section of the system. The
joints shall be tight and any joint with visible leakage, or leakage in excess
of that specified above, shall be repaired at the developer's expense.
         b.   The repair must be of a permanent nature and of a quality equal
to initial work which is constructed in conformance with the applicable
specifications.
         c.   The entire length of the sewer trench, including stubs, shall be
inundated to normal ground water level or eighteen inches (18") above the top
of sewer pipe, whichever is higher. At that time, infiltration tests shall be
made to determine compliance with the allowable infiltration criteria. To
measure the amount of infiltration, the contractor shall furnish, install, and
maintain a V-notch shape crested weir in a metal frame tightly secured at the
lower end of each sewer test section as directed by the village. The village
will check the infiltration by measuring the flow over such weirs. When
infiltration is demonstrated to be within the allowable limits, the contractors
shall remove such weirs. (Ord. 2009-03, 3-16-2009)
11-5-4: STORMWATER DETENTION FACILITIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2009-03, 3-16-2009)
11-5-5: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM:
   A.   General:
      1.   All subdivisions, whether public or private, shall include sanitary
sewers and appurtenances designed in accordance with this title.
      2.   All sanitary sewer improvements shall be installed in accordance
with the material installation and testing requirements of the "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois", latest
edition, unless otherwise modified in this section.
   B.   Service Areas: All sewers shall be designed to accommodate an ultimate
service area as defined by the village. If extending the ultimate service area
beyond the limits of the proposed development results in additional
construction cost in conjunction with the development, a written agreement may
be made with the corporate authorities for the recapture by the owner or
developer of the additional cost when oversizing or system extensions are made.
Recapture payments will be made to the developer only after the person(s)
benefiting from the extended service area has made payment to the village.
   C.   System Extension: The location of proposed extensions to the existing
sanitary sewer system shall be as approved by the village.
   D.   Basic Design Standards:
      1.   Design Flows:
         a.   Design flows for residential developments, single and multiple,
shall be based upon full development of the service area with the population
served, estimated as follows:
 
Type Of Dwelling Unit Number Of Persons
   Studio          1
   1 bedroom       2
   2 bedroom       3
   3 bedroom       4
   4 bedroom       5
 
The maximum daily per capita design flow shall be calculated using the formula:
 
      Q  = 500
         P 1/5
Where: Q1 = Maximum design flow, gpcpd
      P  = Population served, in thousands
Note:
1. Not to exceed 400 gpcpd or be less than 250 gpcpd.
 
For undeveloped residential areas where the details of future developments are
not known, design population per acre may be estimated by the village.
         b.   Design flows for nonresidential developments shall be based on
full development of service area with the maximum daily per capita design flow
calculated as follows:
MAXIMUM DOMESTIC
Type Of Establishment Unit Average Flow In Gallons/ Flow For Sewer Design In
                           Day/ Unit                Gallons/Day/Unit1
Type Of Establishment Unit        Average Flow In   Flow For Sewer Design In
                                  Gallons/Day/ Unit Gallons/Day/Unit1
Shopping center       Employee    50                200
                      (1 shift)
Store                 Employee    30                120
                      (1 shift)
Office                Person      25                100
                      (1 shift)
Industrial            Person      35                140
                      (1 shift)
Restaurant            Meal served 7                 30
Theater               Per seat    5                 20
Hotel                 Per guest   100               400
 
   Note:
   1.   Quantities are exclusive of process water requirements which must be
estimated and added.
For nonresidential developments where the details of the development are not
established, domestic design flows may be estimated by the village. Such flow
estimate shall not relieve the owner or developer of the responsibility of
providing adequate sanitary sewer capacity to meet any and all future
requirements within the development.
      2.   Sewer Design Hydraulics:
         a.   Flow Capacity: Sanitary gravity sewers shall be designed to
provide design flow capacity, without surcharging, using Manning's formula:
 Q = (A)[ 1.486] [(R)2/3][(S)1/2]
   [n]
Where:
 Q = Design flow in units of cubic feet per second
 A = Area in units of square feet
 R = Hydraulic radius in units of feet
 S = Slope in units of feet per foot
 N = Roughness coefficient, in dimensionless units, dependent on conduit
      material of PVC
 
         b.   Roughness: Roughness coefficient utilized shall be as follows:
            (1)   Ductile iron - 0.014.
            (2)   PVC.
         c.   Design Flow: Design flow shall include total allowable
infiltration at any point based on two hundred (200) gallons per inch of
diameter of sewer per mile per twenty four (24) hour day at any time for any
section of the system.
         d.   Design Slopes: Minimum and maximum slopes are tabulated below.
The slopes are those that produce minimum and maximum velocities of 2.0 feet
per second and 15.0 feet per second respectively, based on Kutter's formula,
with n = 0.013 and the pipe flowing full.
Sewer Size (Inches) Minimum Slope  (Percent) Maximum Slope  (Percent)
Sewer Size (Inches) Minimum Slope  (Percent) Maximum Slope  (Percent)
8                   0.40                     22.0
10                  0.28                     15.0
12                  0.22                     11.0
14                  0.17                     9.0
15                  0.15                     8.3
16                  0.14                     7.8
18                  0.12                     6.5
2                   0.10                     5.1
24                  0.08                     4.2
 
         e.   Protection Of Mains: Water mains shall be protected in accordance
with the applicable Illinois pollution control board regulations and the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
technical policy statements. Wherever the sanitary sewer main, building service
sewer, or any storm drain crosses a water main, a minimum eighteen inch (18")
vertical separation shall be provided between the top of the lower pipe and the
bottom of the upper pipe. If an eighteen inch (18") vertical separation cannot
be maintained, the sanitary or storm sewer shall be constructed of ductile iron
pipe, or shall be totally encased in concrete for a minimum distance of ten
feet (10') on each side of the water main and be pressure tested to ensure
watertightness.
      3.   Minimum Sewer Size:
         a.   Minimum sanitary sewer size shall be eight inch (8") diameter.
         b.   Minimum building sanitary service sewer size shall be six inch
(6") diameter and the same material as the main line.
      4.   Alignment: Sewers shall be laid straight in both horizontal and
vertical planes between manholes, unless otherwise approved by the village.
      5.   Sewer Size Changes: Sanitary sewers of different diameters shall
join only at manholes. The invert elevations shall be adjusted to maintain a
uniform energy gradient by matching the 0.8 depth points of different
diameters.
      6.   Sanitary Sewer Manholes:
         a.   Manholes shall be provided at the following locations:
            (1)   Termination of existing and future lines.
            (2)   Changes in direction, horizontal or vertical.
            (3)   Changes in shape or pipe size.
            (4)   Junctions with other sewers.
            (5)   Access spacing shall be:
 
Sewer Pipe Size (In Inches) Maximum Interval  (In Feet)
8 – 15                    400
18 – 54                   500
60 or larger                1,000
 
         b.   A drop manhole shall be provided for manholes with any pipe
having a difference in invert elevation more than twenty four inches (24")
above the invert of the sewers leaving such manholes.
         c.   Where flows and other conditions dictate, special manholes or
junction chambers shall be designed and constructed.
      7.   Sewer Depth: Sanitary sewers shall be constructed at a minimum depth
of six feet (6') and shall provide an outfall for all sanitary sewage within
the ultimate service area, both existing and future.
      8.   Lift Stations:
         a.   Whenever possible, sanitary sewerage facilities shall be designed
so as to avoid the necessity of providing lift stations.
         b.   Lift station and force main designs shall be submitted for review
and approval by the village and any other agency having jurisdiction.
         c.   A standby internal combustion power source shall be provided for
lift stations. As an alternate, the village may require or approve a dual
connection to the power system as a method of providing standby power in cases
where such an alternate would provide an equal degree of reliability and would
provide an economy to the village over the useful life of the alternate standby
power system.
         d.   Force mains shall be designed and constructed of ductile iron
pipe.
         e.   A telemetered alarm system shall be installed and connected to
the village's existing alarm panel.
      9.   Sewer Pipe Class: Sewer pipe class shall be determined by using ASTM
rigid and flexible pipe design strength formulas.
   E.   Material Specifications: All sanitary sewer system elements shall
conform to the following specifications unless otherwise approved:
      1.   Sewer And Service Connection Pipe:
         a.   Vitrified clay pipe - extra strength, ASTM C700.
         b.   PVC - SDR ratio not to exceed thirty five (35) in conformance
with ASTM D-3034.
         c.   ABS composite pipe - ASTM D2680 for eight inch (8") and larger
and ASTM D2751 for six inch (6").
         d.   Ductile iron pipe - ANSI A21.51 (AWWA C151), minimum thickness,
class 52 per ANSI A21.51 (AWWA C150).
      2.   Sewer And Service Connection Pipe Joints:
         a.   Vitrified clay pipe ASTM C425 with PVC bell, ASTM D1784.
         b.   PVC SDR26, push joint.
         c.   ABS composite pipe - type OR, ASTM D2680.
         d.   Ductile iron pipe - ANSI A21.11 (AWWA C111).
      3.   Sewer And Service Connection Pipe Fittings:
         a.   Vitrified clay - ASTM C700.
         b.   PVC.
         c.   ABS composite - ASTM D2680, for eight inch (8") and larger and
ASTM D2751 for six inch (6").
         d.   Ductile iron - ANSI A21.10 (AWWA C110).
      4.   Casing Pipes:
         a.   Steel pipe - ASTM A120, one-fourth inch (1/4") minimum thickness.
      5.   Manholes (Exhibit No. 203, 204, Or 301):
         a.   Materials: Precast reinforced concrete - ASTM C478 and ASTM C443.
         b.   Size: For sewer eighteen inch (18") diameter or less, manhole
shall have a forty eight inch (48") inside diameter. For sewer twenty one inch
(21") to thirty six inch (36") diameter, manhole shall have a sixty inch (60")
inside diameter. For sewer greater than thirty six inch (36") diameter, manhole
shall have an offset riser pipe of forty eight inch (48") inside diameter.
         c.   Adjustment: No more than two (2) precast concrete adjusting rings
with six inch (6") maximum height adjustment shall be allowed.
         d.   Pipe And Frame Seals: All pipe connection openings shall be
precast with resilient rubber watertight pipe to manhole sleeves or seals.
External flexible watertight sleeves shall also extend from the manhole cone to
the manhole frame.
         e.   Bottom Sections: All bottom sections shall be monolithically
precast including bases and invert flow lines.
      6.   Castings:
         a.   Manhole frame and cover - Neenah no. R-1772-C, with self- sealing
lid, embossed "SANITARY SEWER" and "VILLAGE OF WEST DUNDEE" with a lid design
as shown on exhibit no. 302.
         b.   Manhole steps - Neenah no. R-1981-I.
         c.   Recessed pick hole.
         d.   To prevent entry of overland flow, use a watertight frame and
self-sealing lid, Neenah no. R-1755-C, embossed "SANITARY SEWER" and "VILLAGE
OF WEST DUNDEE" with a lid design as shown on exhibit no. 302.
      7.   Pipe Bedding: Granular pipe bedding material or granular cradle
shall be required on all sanitary sewers installed in the village. Granular
pipe bedding shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in earth excavation and a
minimum of six inches (6") in rock excavation before the trench is backfilled
with granular material to six inches (6") over the top of the pipe. The
granular material shall conform in gradation to type A, B, or C listed in
section 20, paragraph 20-1, 20(A) of the "Standard Specifications For Water And
Sewer Main Construction In Illinois", as amended, division 1 - second edition
and/or latest revision. Sewer pipe bedding shall conform to the requirements
shown on exhibit no. 202.
      8.   Select Granular Backfill: All trenches for sanitary sewers falling
under and within two feet (2') of a proposed or existing paved surface shall be
backfilled with select granular material conforming to gradation type A or B
only as listed in section 20, paragraph 20-2 21c (2) of the "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois". Selected
granular backfill shall be placed in uniform layers not exceeding six inches
(6") (loose measure) and compacted with mechanical equipment to ninety percent
(90%) of maximum density in accordance with AASHO T-99.
   F.   Installation Requirements:
      1.   Sewer system design and construction shall in all respects be in
accordance with the regulations of the environmental protection agency of the
state of Illinois. No construction shall commence until a copy of a permit from
this agency is filed with the village.
      2.   The installation of sanitary sewer and appurtenances shall conform
to the requirements of this title and the following:
         a.   Vitrified clay pipe and fittings - ASTM C12.
         b.   Reinforced concrete pipe - section 603, SSR and BC.
         c.   ABS composite pipe and fittings - ASTM D2321.
         d.   Ductile iron pipe and fittings - AWWA C600.
         e.   PVC ASTM 3034.
      3.   The installation of sewer service connections shall conform to the
requirements of this title and exhibit no. 303.
      4.   The contractor shall keep a record of the location of all sewer
services by measurement to the nearest downstream manhole. Such records shall
be delivered to the village at the completion of the work.
   G.   Inspection And Test:
      1.   Cleaning: All sewers and appurtenances shall be cleaned prior to
inspection and testing required by this title.
      2.   Visual Inspection:
         a.   All sewer and appurtenances shall be visually inspected by
representatives of the developer during and following construction.
         b.   Sewers designed to be straight between manholes will be tested
for straightness by flashing a light from manhole to manhole, lamping or by
other suitable means.
      3.   Television Inspection:
         a.   Upon completion of construction, and prior to the issuance of any
connection permit, and also again prior to initiation of the maintenance
guarantee period, and if deemed necessary during the construction of the
sanitary sewer, a television inspection shall be performed on the sections or
portions of the sewer as directed by the village. Videotapes and a written
report of all television inspections shall be provided to the village prior to
connecting services and prior to the initial acceptance required by this title.
The form of the report and type and format of the videotape shall be approved
by the village.
         b.   Fees and costs connected with television inspections shall be
paid for by the developer or owner.
         c.   All defects and corrective work required as the result of
television inspection shall be performed by the developer without delay. Upon
completion thereof, the sewer shall be retested and such further inspection
made as may appear warranted.
      4.   Testing For Acceptance Of Sanitary Sewers: All sanitary sewers
twenty one inches (21") and smaller, including service lines, shall pass a low
pressure air test before acceptance. In addition, the director of public works
may, at his discretion, require an exfiltration test as described in section
307.2 prior to final acceptance. Sanitary sewers twenty four inches (24") and
larger shall pass an exfiltration test described in section 307.2 and be
subject to a physical inspection by the director of public works. In addition
to the above, manholes are subject to physical inspection.
      5.   Low Pressure Air Test Procedures And Requirements: The procedure for
low pressure air testing shall follow that set forth in section 31, paragraph
31.11B (3) of the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Construction In
Illinois". All plugs, including those in sanitary services, must be carefully
braced to prevent leakage and blowout. The line being tested shall be deemed
acceptable when the time taken for the one pound pressure drop is not less than
that shown in the following table:
AIR TEST TABLE
BASED ON EQUATIONS FROM ASTM C 828
SPECIFICATION TIME (min:sec) REQUIRED FOR PRESSURE DROP
FROM 31/2 TO 21/2 PSIG
WHEN TESTING ONE PIPE DIAMETER ONLY
PIPE DIAMETER, INCHES
Line (Ft) 4 6 8 10 12 15 18 21 24
Line (Ft) 4    6    8    10   12   15    18    21    24
25        0:04 0:10 0:18 0:28 0:40 1:02  1:29  2:01  2:38
50        0:09 0:20 0:35 0:55 1:19 2:04  2:58  4:03  5:17
75        0:13 0:30 0:53 1:23 1:59 3:06  4:27  6:04  7:55
100       0:18 0:40 1:10 1:50 2:38 4:08  5:56  8:05  10:34
125       0:22 0:50 1:28 2:18 3:18 5:09  7:26  9:55  11:20
150       0:26 0:59 1:46 2:45 3:58 6:11  8:30        
175       0:31 1:09 2:03 3:13 4:37 7:05             
200       0:35 1:19 2:21 3:40 5:17                12:06
225       0:40 1:29 2:38 4:08 5:40           10:25 13:36
250       0:44 1:39 2:56 4:35          8:31  11:35 15:07
275       0:48 1:49 3:14 4:43          9:21  12:44 16:38
300       0:53 1:59 3:31              10:12 13:53 18:09
350       1:02 2:19 3:47         8:16  11:54 16:12 21:10
400       1:10 2:38         6:03 9:27  13:36 18:31 24:12
450       1:19 2:50         6:48 10:38 15:19 20:50 27:13
500       1:28         5:14 7:34 11:49 17:01 23:09 30:14
 
      6.   Exfiltration Test Procedures And Requirements: The exfiltration test
shall be performed in the absence of ground water in accordance with the
following procedure:
         a.   Plug the upper and lower section of sewer main to be tested.
         b.   Fill the line and all manholes with water to a depth of four feet
(4') above the invert of the midpoint of the section being tested.
         c.   Let the water stand in the section of sewer main being tested for
a period of twenty four (24) hours to allow for absorption and escape of
trapped air.
         d.   After a period of twenty four (24) hours has elapsed, refill the
section to original depth.
         e.   After an additional one hour period has elapsed, refill the line
again to original depth, recording the total amount of water necessary
(measured in gallons) for refill.
The amount of exfiltration shall not exceed two hundred (200) gallons per inch
of pipe diameter per mile per day, including all manholes and service lines.
The decision of the Director of Public Works shall be final in determining the
results.
      7.   Test Results: If the sanitary sewer installation fails to meet the
test requirements specified, the contractor shall determine the cause or causes
of the defect and shall, at his own expense, repair or replace all materials
and workmanship as may be necessary to comply with the test requirements.
      8.   Certification: It shall be the responsibility of the pipe
manufacturers to certify that pipe and joint materials furnished are capable of
meeting the low pressure air test, infiltration test, and exfiltration test and
are manufactured in conformance with the ASTM, ANSI, AWWA, or AASHO test(s)
specified. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-5-6: WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   General:
      1.   All developments shall include water distribution facilities
complete with valves, fire hydrants, and other appurtenances designed in
accordance with this title. As a minimum, the water distribution system shall
provide a service connection or connections at the approximate midpoint of the
front property line of each individual lot or parcel within the development.
Where more than one building is located or planned on one lot or parcel of
property, or when water main construction is required on the property for fire
protection, the proposed construction shall also include all water main
construction and appurtenances within the lot or parcel except service lines.
      2.   Specification references made herein for manufactured materials such
as pipe, hydrants, valves and fittings refer to designation of the American
Water Works Association (AWWA) or of the American National Standard Institute
(ANSI). Water distribution systems shall be constructed in accordance with the
"Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois,"
latest edition, unless otherwise modified in this section.
   B.   Basic Design Standards:
      1.   System Extension: Extensions to the water distribution system shall
form a complete network extension or a part of a complete network extension
including all primary mains, secondary mains, and gridiron mains, complementing
the existing distribution system network.
      2.   Water Main Size: Minimum water main size shall be eight inch (8")
diameter, except as stipulated in subsection B3 of this section.
      3.   Daily Water Consumption: For purposes of water main design, maximum
day consumption for water main design shall be based on the following table:
Type Of Establishment Unit Maximum Day Consumption Gallons/Day/Unit1
Type Of Establishment Unit               Maximum Day Consumption Gallons/Day/
                                         Unit1
Shopping centers      Employee (1 shift) 105
Store                 Employee (1 shift) 65
Offices               Person (1 shift)   50
Industrial            Person (1 shift)   75
Restaurant            Meal served        15
Theater               Per seat           10
Hotel                 Per guest          210
 
Note:
      1.      Quantities are exclusive of process water requirements which must
be estimated and added.
For other than residential developments, when the details of the development
are not known, maximum day consumption and fire flow may be estimated by the
village. Such estimate shall not relieve the owner or developer of the
responsibility of providing adequate main capacity for any and all future needs
within the development. In such cases, the minimum main size shall be twelve
inches (12").
      4.   Head Losses: Head losses in relation to velocity in water mains
shall be computed using the Hazen-Williams formula:
 
 V = 1.318 (C) (R)0.63 (S)0.54
Where:
 V = Velocity, in units of feet per second
 C = 100
 R = Hydraulic radius, in units of feet
 S = Hydraulic gradient, in units of feet per foot
 
      5.   Main Capacity: All mains shall be sized to provide sufficient
capacity to deliver the required fire flow plus the consumption at the maximum
daily rate to all areas served by the proposed construction.
      6.   Required Fire Flow And Pressure: A separate fire flow report shall
be prepared that indicates that at selected locations, and at any other
location that may be selected by the director of public works, the fire flows
required, in excess of maximum daily consumptive demands with a minimum
residual hydrant pressure of twenty (20) psi, will be supplied. Required fire
flow shall be computed as detailed in the "Guide For Determination Of Required
Fire Flow", latest edition, published by the Insurance Service Office.
      7.   Fire Hydrant Spacing:
         a.   Fire hydrants shall be installed so that the near corner of all
construction on the site that could burn, will not be further than one hundred
fifty feet (150') from a fire hydrant. Fire hydrants shall be provided so as to
provide the required fire flows to structures. Six inch (6") main extensions
serving hydrants shall not be more than six hundred feet (600') long. Where
water transmission lines or off site water lines are installed in existing
rights of way or in existing easements, hydrants must be installed at six
hundred foot (600') intervals.
         b.   Fire hydrants shall be placed on private property, under the
direction of the fire chief, when he determines that fire hydrants are at too
great a distance to provide proper protection for multi-family, commercial or
industrial properties.
         c.   Fire hydrants shall be placed within one hundred feet (100') of
all sprinkler and/or standpipe siamese connections provided on buildings unless
otherwise directed by the fire chief because of existing or proposed
circumstances.
      8.   Valve Spacing: A sufficient number of valves (maximum of 3) shall be
provided so that a break or other failure will not affect more than thirty two
(32) residential units or five hundred feet (500') of main in nonresidential
areas.
   C.   Material Specifications And Details: All water distribution system
elements shall conform to the following specifications:
      1.   Ductile Iron Pipe:
         a.   Pipe class thickness - ANSI A21.50 (AWWA C150), minimum
thickness, class 52.
         b.   Pipe - ANSI A21.51 (AWWA C151).
         c.   Pipe lining - ANSI A21.4 (AWWA C104).
         d.   Fittings - ANSI 21.10 (AWWA C110).
         e.   Joints - mechanical (mega lug) and push on, ANSI A21.11 (AWWA
C111).
      2.   Valves For Water Mains:
         a.   Description:
            (1)   The valves shall be suitable for ordinary waterworks service,
intended to be installed in a normal position on buried pipelines for water
distribution systems.
            (2)   The minimum requirements for all valves shall, in design,
material and workmanship, conform to the standards of the latest AWWA C500 and
C504. All materials used in the manufacture of waterworks valves shall conform
to the AWWA standards designed for each material listed. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
         b.   Materials:
            (1)   Manufacture And Marking: The valves shall be standard pattern
and shall have the name or make of the manufacturer, size and working pressure
plainly cast in raised letters on the valve body. Valves shall be American flow
control AFC-2500 ductile iron resilient wedge gate valves unless conditions
warrant otherwise and approved by the director. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd.
2004 Code)
            (2)   Type And Mounting:
   (A) The valve bodies shall be cast iron, mounted with approved noncorrosive
metals. All wearing surfaces shall be bronze or other approved noncorrosive
materials and there shall be no moving bearing or contact surfaces or iron in
contact with iron. Contact surfaces shall be machined and finished in the best
workmanlike manner, and all wearing surfaces shall be easily renewable.
   (B) All gate valves shall be two-faced, nonrising stem, double disc, with
parallel seats of bronze or other approved wedging devices placed between them.
The stem shall be of high tensile strength bronze or other approved
noncorrosive metal. All nonferrous bushings shall be of substantial thickness
tightly fitted and pressed into machined seats. All valves shall open by
turning to the left counterclockwise. All gate valves shall meet the standards
of AWWA C500.
   (C) Butterfly valves may not be used in the distribution system of the
village of West Dundee.
      3.   End Connections: End connections of gate valves shall consist of:
         a.   Mechanical joints (mega lugs).
         b.   Push on (rubber gasket) joints.
      4.   Gate Valves:
         a.   Manually operated gate valves sixteen inches (16") and larger may
be used upon specific approval by the director of public works; installed in a
horizontal position in a horizontal pipeline shall be of the double disc type
and shall be equipped with solid bronze (grade I or IV) or hard babbitt tracks
securely fastened in body and bonnet. The weight of the gates shall be carried
on rollers throughout their entire length of travel. Babbitt metal for tracks
shall conform to ASTM B23, grade 3. For double disc valves of the rolling disc
type, the discs shall be carried on solid bronze (grade I, II, III or IV)
rollers securely attached to them. All valves shall be equipped with bronze
scrapers to traverse the tracks ahead of the rollers.
         b.   Valves sixteen inches (16") and larger installed in vertical or
inclined lines shall be equipped with hard babbitt tracks secured to the valve
body and bonnet to support the lower disc during operation, and equipped with
slides to assist the travel of the gate assembly.
         c.   They shall be nonrising stem type and shall be equipped with
approved rugged rate position indicators. The valves shall be provided with
hand wheels of ample proportion.
         d.   All gears on gate valves shall be cut tooth steel gears housed in
heavy cast iron grease cases of approved design.
         e.   When manually operated gate valves sixteen inches (16") and
larger are required, they shall be equipped with a bypass and a bypass valve.
Bypass valve shall be of the same type as the main valve, shall be equipped
with hand wheel and shall have the stem in a vertical position unless otherwise
indicated.
Sizes shall be as follows:
 
Valve Diameter Inches Bypass Diameter  Inches
10 to 20              3
24 and 30             4
36 and 42             6
48 and larger         8
 
         f.   All gate valves sixteen inches (16") and larger shall be geared
with gearing designed for hand wheel operation. Gear ratios shall not be less
than the following:
Valve Diameter Inches Gear  Ratio
Valve Diameter Inches Gear  Ratio
16                    2:1
20                    2:1
24                    2:1
30                    3:1
36                    3:1
42                    4:1
48                    4:1
 
      5.   Gate Valve Stem Seals: Unless otherwise designated in the special
provisions, all gate valves up to and including twelve inch (12") in size,
shall be furnished with O ring stem seals. Number, size and design shall
conform to the AWWA standard for gate valve O ring stem seals. Valves larger
than twelve inch (12") be equipped with packing glands.
      6.   Wrench Nuts: Wrench nuts shall be made of cast iron and shall be one
and fifteen-sixteenths inches (115/16") square at the top, two inches (2")
square at the base, one and three-fourths inches (13/4") high, unless otherwise
designated in the special provisions. Nuts shall have a flanged base upon which
shall be cast an arrow at least two inches (2") long showing the direction of
the opening. The word "Open" in one-half inch (1/2") or larger letters shall be
cast on the nut to clearly indicate the direction of opening the valve.
      7.   Tapping Valves: Tapping valves shall be furnished with flanged inlet
and connections having a machined projection on the flanges to mate with a
machined recess on the outlet flanges of the tapping sleeves and crosses. The
outlet ends shall conform in dimensions to the AWWA standards for hub or
mechanical joint connections, except that the outside of the hub shall have a
large flange for attaching a drilling machine. The seat opening of the valves
shall be larger than normal size to permit full diameter cuts. Tapping sleeve
or cross shall be of the same manufacture as the tapping valve.
      8.   Hydrostatic Test Pressure At Factory:
         a.   Pressure Test: Each gate valve shall be tested at the factory for
performance and operation prior to painting and shall be subjected to the
following hydrostatic pressure tests; each three inch (3") to twelve inch (12")
valve, inclusive, shall be subjected to hydrostatic pressure test under
pressures of both three hundred (300) psi and one hundred seventy five (175)
psi and each sixteen inch (16") to forty eight inch (48") valve, inclusive,
shall be subjected to test pressures of three hundred (300) psi and one hundred
seventy five (175) psi and each sixteen inch (16") to forty eight inch (48")
valve, inclusive, shall be subjected to test pressures of three hundred (300)
psi and one hundred fifty (150) psi. These tests shall be conducted in
accordance with provisions of AWWA C500. Tests for special valves shall be made
as provided in the special provisions.
         b.   Painting At Factory: After the factory test and inspection, all
ferrous parts of the valves except finished or bearing surfaces shall be
painted inside and out with two (2) coats of asphalt varnish.
      9.   Installation Of Gate Valves:
         a.   All gate valves shall be inspected upon delivery in the field to
ensure proper working order before installation. They shall be set and jointed
to the pipe in the manner as set forth in the AWWA standards for the type of
connection ends furnished.
         b.   Valves twelve inches (12") and under shall be installed in a
vertical position and be provided with a standard valve vault.
         c.   After installation, all valves shall be subjected to the field
test for piping as outlined in section 41 of the "Standard Specifications For
Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois", latest revision. Should any
defects in materials or workmanship appear during these tests, the contractor
shall correct such defects with the least possible delay and to the
satisfaction of the director of public works.
      10.   Fire Hydrants (Exhibit No. 401):
         a.   Waterous pacer dry barrel, model WB67-250, AWWA C502, painted
fire engine red aboveground, with auxiliary gate valve.
         b.   Valve size, five and one-fourth inches (51/4"), counterclockwise
to open.
         c.   Nozzles, two (2) at two and one-half inches (21/2"), one at four
and one-half inches (41/2"), with threads conforming to national standard
specifications.
         d.   Frangible section (breakaway type) with the break line flange
located one inch (1") above finished grade.
         e.   Joint end, six inch (6"), mechanical or push on.
      11.   Hydrant Valve Box (Exhibit No. 401):
         a.   Mueller H10360, 664-S.
         b.   Lid embossed "WATER".
      12.   Air Release Valves: Aplo, type 200A, two inch (2").
      13.   Corporation Stops (Exhibit No. 402): Mueller H15000, one inch (1")
minimum, AWWA C800.
      14.   Service Pipe:
         a.   Copper tube, two inch (2") and smaller, ASTM B88, type K (1 inch
minimum).
         b.   Ductile iron, larger than two inch (2"), conform to subsection C1
of this section.
      15.   Curb Stop:
         a.   Copper service, Mueller H-15154 as denoted in exhibit no. 402.
         b.   Ductile iron service, conform to subsections C2a and C2c of this
section.
      16.   Curb Box:
         a.   Copper service, Mueller H-10300 as denoted in exhibit no. 402.
         b.   Ductile iron service, four inch (4") and smaller, conform to
subsection C4 of this section.
         c.   Ductile iron service, six inch (6") and larger, conform to
subsection C19 of this section.
      17.   Concrete Thrust Restraints:
         a.   Horizontal Reactions: Thrust restraints at all tees, plugged
ends, hydrants, and bends between eleven and one-fourth degrees (111/4°) and
ninety degrees (90°) shall conform to exhibit no. 403.
         b.   Vertical Reactions: The engineer shall submit individual designs
for each location and comply with AWWA C600, section 3.8.
         c.   Material: Precast or poured class X concrete.
         d.   When Undisturbed Earth Is Not Available: Where undisturbed earth
is not available or not likely to be available to backup pressure type concrete
thrust blocks, the engineer shall specify tie rods with or without anchor type
concrete thrust blocks and submit design data for such specifications. Care
shall be taken when pouring concrete so that the mix will not interfere with
access to joints or with hydrant drainage.
      18.   Casing Pipes: Steel pipe - ASTM A120, one-fourth inch (1/4")
minimum thickness.
      19.   Valve Vaults (Exhibit No. 404 Or 405):
         a.   Precast Reinforced Concrete: ASTM C478 and ASTM C443.
         b.   Size: For six inch (6") and eight inch (8") diameter valves,
valve vaults shall have a forty eight inch (48") inside diameter; for pressure
connections and valves ten inches (10") and larger in diameter, valve vaults
shall have a sixty inch (60") inside diameter.
         c.   Adjustment: No more than two (2) precast concrete adjusting rings
with six inch (6") maximum height adjustment shall be allowed.
      20.   Castings:
         a.   Manhole frame and cover - Neenah no. R-1772-C, embossed "WATER"
and "VILLAGE OF WEST DUNDEE" with a lid design as denoted on exhibit no. 406.
         b.   Manhole steps, Neenah no. R-1981-I.
      21.   Crushed Granular Bedding (Exhibit No. 202): Crushed gravel or
crushed stone course aggregate - ASTM C33, size no. 67.
      22.   Carrier Pipe (Exhibit No. 407):
         a.   PVC Pipe: AWWA C900, minimum thickness equal to SDR26, push on
type joints.
         b.   Other Pipes: Conforming to water main standards of this title.
   D.   Installation Requirements:
      1.   Environmental Protection Agency Permit: Water system design and
construction shall in all respects be in accordance with the regulations of the
environmental protection agency, state of Illinois. No construction shall
commence until a copy of a permit from this agency is filed with the village.
      2.   Installation: The installation of water mains and appurtenances,
including services, shall conform to the requirements of this title and shall
conform to AWWA C600.
   E.   Water Services: The minimum size of water service connections in the
village shall be three-quarter inch (3/4") and shall be copper tube type K.
Water service connections larger than four inches (4") shall be ductile iron
pipe water main and shall comply with all specifications for water mains. All
copper connections shall be made with flared joints. The corporation stop shall
be Mueller company H-15000 Ori-seal or approved equal and shall be installed by
tapping machine. The tap shall be made in the upper third of the main as close
to a forty five degree (45°) angle with the horizontal axis as is practical. A
tap into the top of the main will not be permitted. All taps shall have a
minimum of ten feet (10') separation. The roundway ground key stop shall be
Mueller company H-15154 mark II Ori-seal or approved equal having a Minneapolis
pattern thread with a Mueller company H-10302 or approved equal buffalo box
five and one-half feet (51/2') in length having an inside diameter of the upper
section of not less than one and one-half inches (11/2"). All water services
shall have a minimum of five feet (5') of cover over the service. All buffalo
boxes shall be installed approximately eighteen inches (18") from the street
side of the sidewalk. The contractor shall record the location of each buffalo
box in relation to the nearest corner lot line. Two (2) copies of this record
shall be filed with the village prior to final inspection. When a water service
is installed beneath existing roadways, sidewalks and/or driveways, the pipe
shall be installed by pushing or augering a hole beneath the said roadway,
sidewalk and/or driveway and installing the service pipe through the hole. The
size of any opening in the roadway to connect the water service to the main
shall be kept to a minimum, and the roadway replaced in accordance with section
11-5-7 of this chapter. Materials and thickness to be approved by the village.
Installation of a water service in the same trench as the sanitary sewer
service will not be allowed. A ten foot (10') horizontal separation between a
sanitary sewer and water service shall be maintained. Whenever it shall occur
that the buffalo box is placed at grade within a hard surface sidewalk,
driveway or access drive, it shall be placed within a Mueller company H-10342
or approved equal curb box sleeve.
   F.   Fire Service Line: All fire sprinklers shall be connected to the water
system through a separate fire service line constructed in accordance with the
requirements in this title.
   G.   Protection Of Water Mains:
      1.   General:
         a.   Wherever pipelines designated to carry potable water supplies
cross or are laid less than ten feet (10') horizontally from existing or
proposed drain or sewer lines, or cross house sewers, storm drains, or sanitary
sewers, special precautions shall be taken as follows.
         b.   Should local conditions prevail, which would prevent a lateral
separation of ten feet (10'), a water main may be laid closer than ten feet
(10') to a storm or sanitary sewer provided the main is laid in a separate
trench or on an undisturbed earth shelf located to one side of the sewer and at
such an elevation that the bottom of the water main is at least eighteen inches
(18") above the top of the sewer. In such cases, water main shall be laid with
as much horizontal clearance for sewer as possible.
         c.   If it is impossible to obtain proper horizontal and vertical
separation as stipulated in subsection G1a or G1b of this section, both the
water main and the length of sewer between adjacent manholes shall be
constructed of push on or mechanical joint ductile iron pipe, or prestressed
concrete pipe and shall be pressure tested to assure watertightness before
backfilling.
      2.   Vertical Separation:
         a.   Whenever a water main must cross house sewers, storm drains, or
sanitary sewer, the water main shall be laid at such an elevation that the
bottom of the water main is eighteen inches (18") above the top of the drain or
sewer. This vertical separation shall be maintained for that portion of the
water main located within ten feet (10'), horizontally, of any sewer or drain
crossed. Said ten feet (10') to be measured at the normal distance from the
water main to the drain or sewer.
         b.   Where conditions exist that the minimum vertical separation set
forth in subsection G2a of this section cannot be maintained, or it is
necessary for the water main to pass under a sewer or drain, one of the
following two (2) measures must be taken:
            (1)   The water main shall be installed within a PVC carrier pipe
and the carrier pipe shall extend on each side of the crossing until the normal
distance from the water main to the sewer or drain line is at least ten feet
(10').
            (2)   The involved sewer or drain shall be constructed from manhole
to manhole with O ring pipe conforming to ASTM 361 or other pipe material which
would conform to water main standards.
   H.   Construction Requirements:
      1.   Excavation:
         a.   The trench shall be excavated so that the water main will be at a
minimum depth of five and one-half feet (5.5') measured from the existing
ground surface or established grade to the top of the barrel of the pipe. The
trench for the pipe shall be excavated at least twelve inches (12") wider than
the external diameter of the pipe but not wider than the widths denoted on
exhibit no. 202.
         b.   Bell holes of sufficient depth shall be provided across the
bottom of the trench to accommodate the bell of the pipe, to provide sufficient
room for joint making and to ensure uniform bearing for the pipe.
         c.   Where a firm foundation is not found to exist for the bottom of
the trench at the required depth, due to soft, spongy or other unsuitable soil,
such unsuitable soil shall be removed for the full width of the trench or
tunnel and replaced with well compacted unwashed gravel or an equal substitute,
or crushed stone if such compacted material proves unsatisfactory. Where rock,
in either ledge or boulder formation, is encountered, it shall be removed below
grade and replaced with a well compacted cushion of unwashed gravel having a
thickness under the pipe of not less than eight inches (8").
      2.   Sheeting And Bracing:
         a.   Sheeting and bracing shall be used in the excavation area, as may
be necessary, for the safety of the work and the public, for the protection of
the workmen and to prevent adjacent properties from damage.
         b.   Sheeting shall not be removed until the backfill has been placed
and thoroughly compacted.
      3.   Laying Water Main:
         a.   The contractor shall keep the trench free from water while the
water main is being placed and until the pipe joint has been sealed to the
satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or his representative.
         b.   Adequate provision shall be made for the safety, storage and
protection of all water pipe prior to actual installation in the trench. Care
shall be taken to prevent damage to the pipe castings, both inside and out.
Provisions shall be made to keep the inside of the pipe clean throughout its
storage period and to keep mud and/or other debris from being deposited
therein. All pipe shall be thoroughly cleaned on the inside before laying of
the pipe. Proper equipment shall be used for the safe handling, conveying and
laying of the pipe. All pipe shall be carefully lowered into the trench, piece
by piece, by means of a derrick, ropes, or other suitable tools or equipment,
in such manner as to prevent damage to water main materials and protective
coatings and linings. Under no circumstances shall water main materials be
dropped or dumped into the trench.
         c.   In making joints, all portions of the joining materials and the
socket and spigot ends of the joining pipe shall be wiped clean of all foreign
materials. The actual assembly of the jointing shall be in accordance with the
manufacturer's installation instructions and/or as directed in writing by the
village. During construction, until jointing operations are complete, the open
ends of all pipes shall be at all times protected and sealed with temporary
watertight plugs.
      4.   Pipe Cutting:
         a.   The cutting of pipe for inserting valves, fittings or closure
pieces shall be done in a neat and workmanlike manner without damage to cement
lining and so as to leave a smooth end at right angles to the axis of the pipe.
         b.   When machine cutting is not available for cutting pipe twenty
inches (20") in diameter or larger, the electric arc cutting method will be
permitted, using a carbon or steel rod. Only qualified and experienced workmen
shall be used in this work.
         c.   The flame cutting of pipe by means of an oxyacetylene torch shall
not be allowed.
      5.   Trench:
         a.   The trench bottom shall be flat, and provide full bearing for the
length of the pipe, with a minimum of six inches (6") of crushed granular
bedding.
         b.   Trenches shall be jetted after backfilling.
         c.   Thrust blocks shall be used to prevent movement at all bends,
tees, caps, valves and hydrants.
         d.   Backfilling of the trench shall be accomplished by careful
replacement of the excavated material after the pipe and the bedding material
have been installed. Any pipe installed within two feet (2') of a pavement edge
or curb and gutter shall be backfilled to the top of the trench with granular
material in compliance with SSR and BC.
      6.   Fire Hydrant:
         a.   Fire hydrants shall be placed as specified on engineering plans.
All hydrants shall stand plumb, their nozzle pointing normal to the road. They
shall conform to the established grade, with nozzles at twenty four inches
(24") above the finished ground.
         b.   A drainage pit two feet (2') in diameter and two feet (2') deep
shall be excavated below each hydrant and filled completely with crushed stone
under and around the bowl of the hydrant and to a level six inches (6") above
the waste opening. No hydrant drainage pit shall be connected to a sewer.
         c.   Hydrant leads and extensions shall be provided as needed in order
to maintain adequate setback from the water main and to provide a minimum of
twenty four inches (24") distance from steamer port to final ground elevation.
      7.   Water Main Installation: During water main installation, to make a
closure between two (2) pipe ends, or between pipe end fittings, or between
pipe end and valve, short lengths shall be used with proper connections or
couplings. Repair sleeves shall not be used to make closures during new
construction.
      8.   Dewatering: Where water is encountered in the trench, it shall be
removed during pipe laying and jointing operations. Trench water shall not be
allowed to enter the pipe at any time.
      9.   Connections To Existing Mains: All connections to the village water
distribution system shall be made under full water service pressure unless
otherwise approved by the director of public works.
   I.   Pressure Test:
      1.   As part of the construction, the water mains shall be pressure
tested in accordance with this title.
      2.   All newly laid pipe shall be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure of
one hundred fifty (150) pounds per square inch. Duration of each pressure test
shall be for a period of not less than two (2) hours. Each valved section of
pipe shall be filled with water and the specified test pressure shall be
applied by means of a pump connected to the pipe. Before applying the specified
test pressure, all air shall be expelled from the pipe. All leaks shall be
repaired until tight. Any cracked or defective pipes, fittings, valves, or
hydrants discovered in consequence of this pressure test shall be removed and
replaced and the test repeated until satisfactory results are obtained. All
testing shall be witnessed by a representative of the village.
      3.   All testing shall be done after the installation of service lines.
Suitable means shall be provided for determining the quantity of water lost by
leakage under the specified test pressure. Allowable leakage shall not be
greater than that shown in the standard specs.
   J.   Preliminary Flushing: Prior to chlorination, the water main shall be
flushed as thoroughly as possible with the water pressure and outlets
available. Flushing shall be done after the pressure test is made. If no
hydrant is installed at the end of the main, a tap should be provided large
enough to effect a velocity in the main of at least two and one-half feet (21/
2') per second.
   K.   Disinfection: After preliminary flushing the water main shall be
chlorinated in accordance with the applicable section of the standard specs and
the IEPA rules and regulations. All water mains shall be disinfected and tested
according to the requirements of the "Standards For Disinfecting Water Mains",
AWWA C601, and as required by this title. All disinfection, as required by this
title, shall be performed by an independent firm exhibiting experience in the
methods and techniques of this operation, and shall be approved by the director
of public works.
   L.   Final Flushing And Testing: Following chlorination, all treated water
shall be thoroughly flushed from the newly laid pipeline at its extremities
until the replacement water. After disinfecting and flushing, water samples
shall be collected by the contractor on two (2) successive days, with notice
given, so that the collection may be witnessed by the village. Bacteriological
sampling and analysis of the samples shall be performed by a laboratory
approved by the Illinois department of public health. Should the bacterial test
be unsatisfactory the procedure shall be repeated until satisfactory results
are obtained. The developer shall pay for the sampling and analysis. Results of
the analysis shall be transmitted by the laboratory directly to the director of
public works. Test results shall indicate the date the sample was collected,
the date the analysis was made, the exact locations at which samples were
taken, the firm submitting the sample, and the project at which the samples
were collected. Sufficient samples shall be collected in order to ensure that
the system is bacteriologically safe. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-5-7: STREET PAVEMENTS, CURB AND GUTTER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   General: The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location
of all streets to be dedicated to the public, all parking lots and all private
streets shall be compatible and complementary to existing and planned streets,
to reasonable circulation of traffic within any development and adjoining
lands, to topographical conditions, to runoff of storm water, to public
convenience and safety, and in their relations to the proposed uses of the area
to be served. All traffic intersections and confluences must encourage safe and
efficient traffic flow.
   B.   Design References: All pavements shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the following references as they apply:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", Illinois
department of transportation, latest edition.
      2.   "Manual For Structural Design Of Portland Cement Concrete Pavement",
Illinois department of transportation, latest edition.
      3.   "Manual Of Instructions For The Structural Design Of Flexible
Pavements On Projects Involving MFT, FAS And FAUS Funds", Illinois department
of transportation, latest edition.
      4.   "Design Manual", Illinois department of transportation, latest
edition.
   C.   Pavement Design Requirements: Pavement design shall relate to the
street classification as set forth in the comprehensive plan and as described
in this title. The proposed roads indicated in the comprehensive plan are
designed to be eventually constructed, but their actual alignment will be
decided upon when the preliminary plan is submitted to the planning and zoning
commission and the corporate authorities for review and approval.
   D.   Pavement Design: All new streets, public or private, shall be improved
and constructed with pavement complying with the requirements of this title and
as follows:
      1.   Subgrade: All subgrade material shall have a minimum Illinois
bearing ratio (IBR) of 3.0. All unsuitable subgrade material, including
subgrade material having an IBR less than 3.0 shall be removed and replaced
with a suitable fill material, or the pavement must be designed to compensate
for the soil condition. The soil support IBR values selected for use by the
engineer shall represent a minimum value for the soil to be used.
      2.   Pavement Design: The pavement design standards denoted in the
following table of pavement and right of way width shall be conformed to. A
copy of all design assumptions and computations on which the proposed pavement
design is based shall be submitted to the director of public works.
TABLE OF PAVEMENT DESIGN AND RIGHT OF WAY WIDTH
Street         Minimum Right Of Width (Back Of                 Minimum
Classification Way Width        Curb To  Back Of Minimum Crown Structural
                                Curb)                          Number
Street            Minimum Right Of Width (Back Of                 Minimum
Classification    Way Width        Curb To  Back Of Minimum Crown Structural
                                   Curb)                          Number
                                   65 feet          6 feet        4.0
                                   or
Major             105 feet         2 - at 28 feet
                                   with 13 feet     41/2 inches   4.0
                                   grassed median
                                   strip
Collector         80 feet          40 feet          5 inches      3.5
Local                                                
(residential)
1. Cul-de-sac1    60 feet          30 feet          4 inches      3.0
2. Dedicated
(other than no. 1 60 feet          30 feet          4 inches      3.0
above)
3. Private        ––           30 feet          4 inches      3.0
Industrial        80 feet          47 feet          6 inches      4.0
Business          80 feet          47 feet          6 inches      3.5
Frontage road     50 feet          27 feet          4 inches      3.0
(dedicated)
 
   Note:
      1.    The pavement diameter of circularly ended cul-de-sacs shall be 87
feet with a minimum 8 inch crown.
      3.   Composite Pavement Strength:
         a.   The pavement shall be designed and constructed so as to obtain a
fifteen (15) year service life with only minimal maintenance before a
resurfacing is required.
         b.   Prior to the installation of the bituminous surface course, but
after the installation of the binder course, the developer shall notify the
village that he intends to surface the street. The village may require a
dynaflect pavement evaluation program report of the completed pavement
improvements. All costs for obtaining the report shall be paid by the
developer.
         c.   The dynaflect pavement evaluation program shall be performed
according to the dynaflect pavement evaluation specification on file with the
village. The program shall generally embody the following testing/pavement
evaluation techniques:
            (1)   Environmental study (frost cycle, drainage, etc.).
            (2)   Pavement surface evaluation.
            (3)   Soil borings at approximately one location per mile.
            (4)   Dynamic pavement deflection analysis (dynaflect machine or
equal correlated with Benkelman beam or equal).
         d.   The dynaflect pavement evaluation program shall not be considered
valid unless the wearing service was applied during the same construction
season. Any costs of additional dynaflect pavement evaluation shall be paid in
advance by the developer.
         e.   In the case of rigid pavements, the developer shall notify the
village that he is ready for final inspection on the streets. The village will
obtain a dynaflect pavement evaluation program report of the complete
improvements as outlined in subsection D3c of this section.
         f.   The program shall evaluate the existing condition of the
(pavement) in two hundred foot (200') sections. It shall determine whether or
not the pavement section will be projected to meet a fifteen (15) year pavement
life or greater.
         g.   If the pavement section is projected to meet a life expectancy of
fifteen (15) years or more, then the developer will be notified.
         h.   If the pavement section is not projected to meet a life
expectancy of fifteen (15) years or more, then the report shall propose
pavement reconstruction to bring the new pavement section to a fifteen (15)
year life expectancy. The village shall evaluate the results of the report and
inform the developer of any required pavement repair for each section.
   E.   Pavement Construction Materials: Pavement materials approved for street
construction shall comply with the minimum requirements as tabulated in the
following table of approved pavement construction materials. Listed with these
materials are the coefficients to be used for computing the pavement structural
number. The coefficients when multiplied by the thickness of the materials will
yield the structural number.
TABLE OF APPROVED CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS
 Structural Materials Strength Requirements MS1 Structural Layer Coefficient
                      IBR PSI
Bituminous surface:
  Structural Materials     Strength Requirements MS1 Structural Layer
                           IBR PSI                   Coefficient
Bituminous surface:
 Class I                  1,700                     0.40
Base course:
 Aggregate, type B
 Uncrushed                50                        0.10
 Crushed (100 percent)    80                        0.13
 Aggregate, type A        80                        0.13
 Waterbound macadam       110                       0.14
 Cement aggregate         6502                      0.23
 Bituminous aggregate,    900–1,900               0.24–0.33
  mixture
 Bituminous mixture       1,700                     0.33
 Portland cement concrete 4,0003                    0.50
 
   Notes:
      1.   Marshall stability.
      2.   7 day design compressive strength.
      3.   28 day design.
   F.   Subgrade Preparation:
      1.   The subgrade of all paved areas shall be graded and rolled in
accordance with the applicable sections of the referenced specs.
      2.   At least one standard proctor density test, performed in accordance
with AASHTO T99, shall be taken in each embankment section, with the maximum
distance between tests of three hundred feet (300'). One standard proctor
density test shall be taken from each different source of borrowed material.
The density tests must be submitted for review to the village. Upon review of
these tests, an inspection of the subgrade shall be made by the engineer and a
report of acceptable subgrade and preparation must be submitted to the village
prior to placing any curb and gutter or base material.
   G.   Grades:
      1.   The vertical grades shall not be in excess of four percent (4%) on
major or collector streets, nor in excess of five percent (5%) on other
streets, unless approved by the village. Streets shall not have a grade of less
than one-half of one percent (0.5%).
      2.   The minimum length of vertical curves shall be one hundred feet
(100') for one and one-half percent (1.5%) difference of grade. For each
additional one percent (1.0%) difference in grade over one and one-half percent
(1.5%), a fifty foot (50') increment shall be added to the length of a vertical
curve. If the grade differential is less than one and one-half percent (1.5%),
a vertical curve is not required.
   H.   Sight Distances: At the points of intersection of proposed roads with
existing roads, the minimum stopping sight distance indicated below for the
legal speed limits shall be provided on existing roads:
 
Legal Speed Limit (mph)1 Minimum Stopping  Sight Distance
   25 – 30          200 feet
   35 – 40          275 feet
   45 – 50          350 feet
   55                 475 feet
 
      Note:
      1.   If in the opinion of the village the projected future legal speed
limit established in accordance with the state of Illinois "policy for
establishing and posting speed limits" is higher than the existing legal speed
limit, the higher speed shall be used to determine the minimum stopping sight
distance.
   I.   Curb And Gutter:
      1.   Combination curb and gutter shall be constructed on both sides of
all street pavements and shall comply with the requirements of exhibit nos.
501A and 501B.
      2.   Two (2) no. 4 reinforcing bars shall be placed continuously between
expansion joints. Expansion joints shall be doweled and spaced no more than
sixty feet (60') on center and at tangent points of all radii. Control joints
shall be provided at fifteen feet (15') on center and shall consist of an
actual saw cut, at least one and one-half inches (11/2") deep.
      3.   Unless otherwise directed by the director of public works pursuant
to IDOT standards, a barrier curb, as denoted as type 3 on exhibit no. 501A,
shall be provided on all streets. In all cases, depressed curb sections shall
be provided at all driveways. Depressed curbs shall be provided at all sidewalk
crossings.
   J.   Maintenance And Responsibility:
      1.   The maintenance and responsibility for private roadways shall be the
responsibility of the developer until the time of final maintenance bond
release, when the owner or homeowners' association shall become responsible for
maintenance.
      2.   All streets, curbs and gutters to be dedicated to the village shall
be under warranty for any and all defects and failures in either the surface
course or the base course for a period of one year after the date of acceptance
by the board of trustees.
   K.   Design Of Pavement Thickness:
      1.   The following minimum structural numbers and minimum pavement
thickness shall be required in the design of pavements:
FLEXIBLE AND RIGID PAVEMENTS
Flexible Pavements        Thicknessa      
Minimum Structural Number Binder Course Surface Course
Flexible Pavements        Thicknessa      
Minimum Structural Number Binder Course Surface Course
2.00 to 3.00              2 inches      1 inch
3.01 to 3.99              2 inches      1 inch
4.00 and greater          3 inches      1 inch
Rigid Pavementsb          Thicknessc      
                          3.00 to 3.996 inches to 8 inches
                          4.00 to 4.998 inches to 10 inches
 
   Notes:
      a.   Bituminous concrete binder and surface course, class I (SSR and BC,
section 406).
      b.   Concrete pavement shall be reinforced with 6 inch by 6 inch #6 steel
fabric.
      c.   Thickness shall be rounded up to the nearest 1/2 inch.
      2.   Flexible pavement materials can be used until November 1, weather
permitting. Any work done after November 1 shall require written authorization
of the village. This authorization will in no way void the contractor's and
developer's guarantee on the work done.
      3.   Flexible pavements must set for a minimum of nine (9) months,
including a winter and a spring. After this setting period has passed, one
pavement core per nine hundred (900) linear feet of measured pavement must be
taken. A report must be submitted to the village listing thicknesses of base
and binder courses and the type and condition of subgrade material as
determined from the cores. If the results of the cores indicate pavement
deficiencies, additional cores will be needed at intervals required by the
village. All cores taken shall be numbered and delivered to the village.
      4.   Upon receipt of this report and cores, the village will review said
report and will perform an inspection of the existing base and binder courses.
All base and binder course failures will then be repaired to the satisfaction
of the village.
      5.   Upon completion of all construction within any development, the
developer will conduct a deflection test as specified in subsection D3 of this
section. All deficiencies, as outlined in this report, shall be repaired as
specified in the report and to the satisfaction of the village prior to the
installation of the final surface course. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-5-8: SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAY APRONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Sidewalks: The work performed under these standards shall consist of
the construction of portland cement concrete sidewalks constructed as described
herein. Such sidewalks shall have a minimum width of four feet (4') and a
minimum thickness of five inches (5"), except the thickness shall be six inches
(6") where passing across an existing or proposed driveway and where passing
over public utilities. The length of thickened slab where passing over public
utility lines shall be constructed to meet the grade of such sidewalks or as
may be directed by the village. Concrete sidewalks shall be constructed along
both sides of all public and private streets, including cul-de-sacs, and comply
with the requirements shown on exhibit 502.
      2.   Driveway Aprons (Exhibit 503):
         a.   The work performed under these standards shall consist of the
construction of portland cement concrete driveway aprons as described herein.
The "driveway apron", by definition, shall be that portion of the driveway
located between the sidewalk and the street.
         b.   Residential driveway aprons shall have a width of twelve feet
(12') for one car driveways, twenty four feet (24') for two (2) car driveways,
and thirty two feet (32') for three (3) car garages measured at the sidewalk,
and a width three feet (3') greater at the curb. All residential aprons shall
have a minimum concrete thickness of six inches (6") and a granular base of
five inches (5") minimum compacted thickness. Business, office and research,
and industrial district driveway aprons shall have a width equal to that of the
driveway at the property line, but which width shall not exceed the maximum
allowable driveway width established in the village's zoning ordinance. The
driveway apron shall be constructed with ten foot (10') radius returns unless
otherwise approved by the village.
         c.   All residential driveways shall have a minimum concrete thickness
of five inches (5") and a granular base of five inches (5") minimum compacted
thickness or an equivalent pavement section with a minimum structural number of
2.5.
         d.   New driveway aprons abutting existing sidewalks or curbs shall be
constructed to meet the grade of such sidewalks or curbs. If necessary, the
sidewalk shall be relocated to accommodate the maximum driveway apron slope.
The location and grade for driveway aprons, when no adjacent sidewalks or curb
and gutter exists, shall match the adjacent parkway. The maximum slope of the
driveway apron shall be eight percent (8%), and the minimum slope shall be two
percent (2%). (Ord. 2014-40, 12-1-2014)
   B.   Materials: All materials shall comply with the following standards of
quality:
      1.   Portland cement:   ASTM C150 type I, normal; ASTM C150 type II, high
early strength.
      2.   Fine aggregate:   ASTM C33, clean and graded between #100 and #4
sieve limits.
      3.   Coarse aggregate:   ASTM C33, uncoated crushed stone or washed
gravel.
      4.   Water: Potable and fit to drink.
      5.   Water reducing admixture:   ASTM C494 type A (normal) or type D
(retarder).
      6.   Air entraining agent:   ASTM C260.
      7.   Premoulded filler strips:   ASTM D994.
      8.   Curing compound:   ASTM C309, type 2 (white, pigmented).
      9.   Reinforcement:   ASTM A615, grade 40.
   C.   Concrete Quality:
      1.   Use ready mixed concrete, complying with ASTM C94 and supplied by a
ready mixed source which is inspected yearly by the Illinois department of
transportation. Delivery tickets shall note the mix designation, time
dispatched, date, project and contractor, and shall be available for review by
the director of public works.
      2.   Concrete mix design shall be the developer's responsibility. Prior
to concrete delivery, a report shall be submitted from a commercial testing
laboratory on the proposed mix proportions to the director of public works for
approval. Prior to concrete delivery, laboratory reports shall be submitted on
seven (7) and twenty eight (28) day strengths of each proposed mix. No concrete
will be allowed to be placed until the mix designs have been approved.
      3.   Concrete mix shall be designed using the following data:
         a.   Minimum compressive strength of four thousand (4,000) psi at
twenty eight (28) days.
         b.   Minimum of six (6) sacks of cement per cubic yard.
         c.   Maximum size aggregate of one inch (1").
         d.   Air entrainment of six percent (6%) plus or minus one percent
(±1%).
         e.   Maximum slump of four inches (4").
         f.   Maximum water content including moisture in the aggregate of six
(6) gallons per sack of cement.
         g.   All concrete shall contain a water reducing admixture with no
reduction in cement content permitted.
   D.   Subgrade Preparation: Where a fill condition exists, remove all topsoil
and unsuitable material. Tamp or roll subgrade before placing granular fill.
Fill shall be placed in six inch (6") layers to the proper subgrade elevation.
Side slopes of fill material shall not exceed one foot (1') vertical to three
feet (3') horizontal. Where a cut condition exists, remove all topsoil and
unsuitable material and remove subgrade to the proper elevation allowing
sufficient width to accommodate the forms.
   E.   Granular Base: Place a granular base of five inch (5") minimum
thickness on the prepared subgrade. The base shall extend the full width of the
sidewalk or driveway apron. The granular base shall consist of CA6 aggregate
conforming to the SSR and BC.
   F.   Forms: Side forms shall be of lumber of not less than two inch (2")
nominal thickness or steel of equal rigidity. The minimum depth of the side
forms shall be equal to the sidewalk thickness. No two inch by four inch (2" x
4") lumber forms will be permitted. Forms shall be held securely in place by
stakes or braces with the top edge true to line and grade. The forms for the
sidewalk shall be set so that the slab will have a fall of one inch (1")
vertical to four feet (4') horizontal from the edge nearest the property line
toward the edge farthest from the property line, except as may be otherwise
directed by the village.
   G.   Reinforcing: Reinforcing bars shall be embedded in the concrete one and
one-half inches (11/2") from the bottom in a longitudinal direction over all
existing water or sewer services or other utilities buried beneath the sidewalk
or driveway apron. Three (3) 3/4-inch diameter bars, each with a minimum length
of ten feet (10') shall be installed over each utility trench. The bars shall
be equally spaced over the width of the sidewalk or driveway apron.
   H.   Expansion Joints: Expansion joints of the thickness specified below
shall consist of a premoulded filler strip with the top strip placed one-fourth
inch (1/4") below the surface of the sidewalk or driveway apron.
      1.   One-Half Inch Thick Expansion Joints: Expansion joints one- half
inch (1/2") thick shall be placed between sidewalks and all structures such as
light standards, traffic light standards, and traffic poles, which extend
through sidewalks. One-half inch (1/2") thick expansion joints shall also be
provided at the junction of the driveway apron and the sidewalk and at the
junction of the driveway apron and the curb.
      2.   Three-Fourths Inch Thick Expansion Joints: Expansion joints three-
fourths inch (3/4") thick shall be placed at maximum intervals of fifty feet
(50') in sidewalks and where specified by the village. Where sidewalks are
constructed adjacent to pavement or curb having expansion joints, the expansion
joints in the sidewalk shall be placed opposite the existing expansion joints
as nearly as practicable. Expansion joints shall also be placed where the
sidewalk abuts existing sidewalks, between driveway pavement and sidewalk, and
between sidewalk and curbs where the sidewalk abuts a curb.
   I.   Placing And Finishing Concrete:
      1.   Concrete Placed: Notify the village when the subgrade has been
finished with a minimum of twenty four (24) hours' notice prior to placing
concrete. No concrete shall be placed until the subgrade has been inspected and
approved by the village.
      2.   Prohibited: Do not place materials on ice or frozen subgrade.
      3.   Finishing Procedures: The subgrade shall be moistened just before
the concrete is placed. The concrete shall be placed in successive batches for
the entire width of the slap, struck off from one-half (1/2) to three-fourths
inch (3/4") higher than the finished slab, tamped until all voids are removed
and free mortar appears on the surface, thoroughly spaded along the edges,
struck off to the true grade, and finished to a true and even surface with
floats and trowels. The final troweling shall be done with a steel trowel,
leaving a smooth, even surface. After the water sheen has disappeared, the
surface shall be given final finish by brushing with a fine hair broom. The
broom shall be drawn across the sidewalk or driveway apron at right angles to
the edges of the slab, with adjacent strokes slightly overlapping, producing a
uniform, slightly roughened surface with parallel marks.
      4.   Control Joints:
         a.   Sidewalks: Control joints shall be constructed at right angles to
the centerline of the sidewalk and shall extend one fourth (1/4) the depth of
the sidewalk. They shall not be less than one- eighth inch (1/8") nor more than
one-fourth inch (1/4") in width, and shall be edged with an edging tool having
a one-fourth inch (1/4") radius. All slabs shall be five feet (5') long on any
one side, unless otherwise ordered by the village.
         b.   Driveway Aprons: Control joints shall be constructed so as to
divide the driveway apron into sections which are approximately square, and
having no side longer than fifteen feet (15'). The control joints shall be not
less than one-eighth inch (1/8") nor more than one-fourth inch (1/4") in width,
and shall be edged with an edging tool having a one-fourth inch (1/4") radius.
The minimum depth shall be one and one-fourth inches (11/4").
   J.   Protection From Low Temperatures: After the first seasonal frost,
protect concrete from freezing in accordance with the "recommended practice for
cold weather concreting" (ACI 306). The developer shall be responsible for all
concrete damaged by low temperatures and all concrete so damaged shall be
removed and replaced by the developer at the developer's sole expense.
   K.   Curing: Sidewalks and driveway aprons must be cured by one of the
following methods:
      1.   Place burlap on the finished surface, saturate with water and cover
with an impermeable covering.
      2.   Place polyethylene sheeting as soon as the concrete has hardened
sufficiently to prevent marring of the surface. Wet the surface of the concrete
immediately before the sheeting is placed. The edges of the sheeting shall be
weighted securely with a continuous windrow of earth or any other means
satisfactory to the village to provide an airtight cover.
      3.   Apply specified curing compound with brush, roller, or spray at the
rate of one gallon for every two hundred fifty (250) square feet of surface.
Any of the above curing methods must remain in place for not less than six (6)
days. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   L.   Backfill: After the concrete has been cured, forms shall be removed and
the space near the edges of the sidewalk or driveway apron shall be backfilled
to the required elevation with material approved by the village. The material
shall then be compacted until firm and the surface evenly graded. The area
shall then be seeded or sod shall be installed. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd.
2004 Code)
   M.   Disposal Of Surplus Material: Surplus or waste material resulting from
the sidewalk or driveway apron construction shall be disposed of by the
developer.
   N.   Control Of Materials: The developer shall, at his expense, have a
commercial testing laboratory prepare and test samples of delivered concrete.
One set of tests shall be taken for the first twenty five (25) cubic yards, or
fraction thereof, and one set of tests shall be taken for each additional fifty
(50) cubic yards. A set of tests shall consist of four (4) standard cylinders
(2 shall be broken at 7 days and 2 shall be broken at 28 days), one slump test
and one air content test. The laboratory shall perform tests in accordance with
recognized ASTM standards and shall submit written reports of such tests to the
village for review. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-5-9: BIKE PATHS:
   A.   Bike paths shall be constructed in locations required by the
comprehensive plan and shall comply with the requirements shown on exhibit no.
504.
   B.   Off street bike paths shall be constructed with a minimum width of
eight feet (8') and with a minimum thickness of four inches (4") of class I
asphaltic surface course.
   C.   Bike paths on or within twenty feet (20') of and parallel to street
rights of way shall conform to all requirements of sidewalks and shall have a
width of eight feet (8'), as shown on exhibit no. 502.
   D.   All bike path subgrades shall conform to the requirements for sidewalk
subgrades established in this title. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-5-10: STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM:
   A.   General: All developments shall include provisions for the design and
construction of street lighting facilities in accordance with this title for
the illumination of all roadways, public or private, which lie in or border the
development and all parking lots in the development. The village shall
continuously be kept appraised of the status of all streetlights.
   B.   Codes And Regulations: All work required under this title shall conform
with the requirements of the electrical code adopted in section 9-1D-1 of this
code.
   C.   Design Criteria For Major Streets: All major streets which are located
within or border a development, shall be illuminated in conformance with the
latest edition of the "American National Standard Practice For Roadway
Lighting", approved by the American National Standards Institute and published
by the Illuminating Engineering Society. The details of the lighting system
shall be approved by the village. Light poles along major streets shall conform
to exhibit no. 601. Luminaires along major streets shall conform to exhibit no.
602.
   D.   Design Criteria For Streets Other Than Major Streets:
      1.   Pole Location:
         a.   Poles shall be installed at all intersections, curves, and cul-
de-sacs, with additional poles installed as needed to provide a maximum pole
spacing of three hundred sixty feet (360').
         b.   Unless otherwise directed by the village, the direction of the
support arm shall bisect the angle formed by the intersection of the
centerlines of the intersecting streets at a four (4) legged intersection. At T
intersections, a pole shall be provided on the centerline extended of the
terminating street at the top of the T with the support arm extending toward
the center of the intersection. Between intersections, mast arms shall be
orientated at a right angle to the centerline. In cul-de-sacs, lights shall be
placed in the center median or if no center median is to be constructed, at the
end of the cul-de-sac along the centerline extended.
         c.   Poles shall be set with two feet (2') clear between the back of
curb and the pole.
      2.   Poles:
         a.   Poles are to be as manufactured by (to be added) as detailed in
exhibit nos. 603 and 604. Unless otherwise directed by the director of public
works, each pole shall be plumbed to within one degree (1°) of vertical and
maintained within this tolerance through the duration of the one year material
and workmanship guaranty period.
         b.   Poles will be set on a bed six inches (6") thick of compacted #9
screening and the remainder of hole will be filled with #9 compacted screening
up to the bottom of the cable entrance of the pole, thence compacted clay shall
be used to the finished grade. The pole shall be so set so that the hand hole
is located on the opposite side from the luminaire and so that the distance
from the center of the hand hole to finished grade will be eighteen inches
(18").
         c.   Light standards shall be manufactured of concrete, centrifugal
cast, prestressed and steel reinforced. The standards shall have smooth ground
and polished surfaces. The cross section of the standard shall contain a
raceway extending throughout the length of the standard.
         d.   The butt of the standard shall be cast as an integral part of the
standard. A hand hole shall be provided and shall be covered with a heat
treated cast aluminum door, fastened to nonferrous inserts in the standard with
stainless steel bolts.
         e.   Roadway lighting standards shall have a butt base extending below
finished grade.
         f.   Fuses shall be 10 amps with "Tron" fuse holder installed in the
power leg inside of the hand hole.
         g.   Vertical cables in lighting standards from fuse holder to
luminaire shall be #10THHN600 stranded copper, two (2) conductor, with copper
stranded bare ground. Cable shall be color coded as follows:
Neutral - white
Power - black
      3.   Luminaires And Lamps: Luminaires are to be as detailed in exhibit
nos. 605, 606 and 607.
   E.   Wire/Cable:
      1.   Underground cable from power source to lighting standards shall be a
minimum of #8 stranded two (2) conductor copper commercial grade for direct
burial RHH, RHW 600-volt with #8 stranded bare ground conductor.
      2.   All wire will be subject to an insulation test to ground after
installation. The minimum acceptable resistance to ground will be two hundred
fifty thousand (250,000) ohms. Any section of wiring failing to pass the
minimum insulation test or showing an obvious short circuit shall be replaced.
All wire is to be buried at least twenty four inches (24") below finished
grade.
      3.   Any necessary splice in underground cables shall have its location
recorded on as built plans. Splices shall be made by using 3M scotchcast kits
in direct burial cables. No splices are allowed within a cable conduit.
      4.   Cable slack shall be provided as follows: Two feet (2') of slack at
base of light standards, and one foot (1') of slack at the source of power with
six inches (6") of sand both above and below the cable.
      5.   All wiring shall have two inch (2") galvanized rigid steel conduit
used as a raceway for underground cable with two inch (2") fiber bushings.
   F.   Trench And Backfill:
      1.   The trench shall be located two feet (2') in back of the curb.
Backfilling material shall be deposited in the trench in layers, not to exceed
six inches (6") in depth, and shall be thoroughly compacted by suitable
tamping, before the next layer is deposited in the trench.
      2.   Walls of trenches shall be essentially vertical so that a minimum of
shoulder surface is disturbed.
      3.   Trenching shall be conducted so as to avoid disturbing existing
pavements and equipment. Excavation shall be deeper than minimum wherever
required in order that conduit may be installed so as to avoid existing piping
or other obstructions.
      4.   All areas disturbed by the trenching, storing of dirt, and other
work shall be restored to their original condition. The restoration shall
include any necessary topsoiling, fertilizing, liming, seeding, or mulching.
All excess and unsatisfactory backfill material shall be hauled away. The
contractor shall be held responsible for maintaining all disturbed surfaces and
repair thereof until final acceptance.
   G.   As Built Drawings: Upon completion of the installation a set of "as
built" drawings shall be submitted to the director of public works. (Ord. 89-
04, 4-3-1989)
11-5-11: SIGNAGE:
Bike path signs, street name signs and other signs shall be provided where
required or warranted pursuant to the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices", published by the Illinois department of transportation. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
11-5-12: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   General: All developments, whether public or private, shall provide for
the landscaping of parkways, parks, open space areas, areas to be dedicated to
the public, and other areas in accordance with this title and other village
ordinances.
   B.   Authority: The village is authorized to grant permission for planting
and maintaining trees and other landscaping on public streets and municipal and
other properties when such trees and landscaping are installed or maintained
pursuant to this title.
   C.   Protection Of Existing Trees:
      1.   All subdivisions or planned unit developments containing trees
twelve inches (12") in diameter or greater, calipered 4.5 feet above the ground
level, must certify the location, species, size and condition of each at the
time of preliminary plan submittal.
      2.   A grading plan shall be submitted showing all existing trees that
are proposed to be razed and those that are to be saved.
      3.   The proposed methodology for saving or removing existing trees shall
be provided by the village.
      4.   The developer shall make every possible effort to save all healthy
trees where feasible and practical. All grading and construction equipment
shall be forbidden from encroaching within the trees' drip line. The "drip
line" shall be defined as the area around the tree with a one foot (1') radius
for each inch of tree diameter. Materials detrimental to trees including
additional soil, shall not be dumped or stored within the trees' drip line or
at any higher location draining toward the trees.
      5.   Where trees are to be saved, provision shall be made for erection of
temporary fencing at the periphery of the drip line to keep construction from
killing the tree or from compacting soil and damaging shallow feeder roots. All
trees destroyed or razed in violation of the approved plan shall be replaced
with a number of two and one-half inch (2.5") diameter trees, calipered at six
inches (6") above the ground level, which shall have equal value of the
destroyed trees as determined by the village. Should due to space and light
constraints the required number of replacement trees cannot be planted, the
village will require a cash contribution for those trees not planted. The cash
contribution will be based on the formula established by the village based on
the condition and species of the tree(s) removed in violation. The cash
contribution will be solely used to fund the village's forestry efforts.
Replacement trees should be those native species indigenous to the area.
      6.   Staking of all street centerlines and utilities including sewer,
water, electric, gas, cable and telephone shall be done in order to evaluate
trees which can be retained by making changes in improvement locations or by
special construction techniques.
      7.   Any trees located within the public right of way will be evaluated
by the village for retention in the right of way. Any trees saved in this
manner will be counted towards the required number of trees pursuant to the
village's requirements for parkway plantings.
   D.   Areas To Be Graded And Sodded:
      1.   All areas within the dedicated street area or other public areas and
all swales draining more than two (2) lots shall be graded and sodded in an
approved manner, unless otherwise shown on the approved development plans.
      2.   Areas to be sodded shall be graded smooth and topped with at least
four inches (4") of black dirt after compacting and removal of stumps, trees
that cannot be saved, boulders and other debris. These areas shall be sodded in
accordance with section 644 of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
   E.   Areas To Be Graded And Seeded: All open areas in the subdivision which
are not sodded shall have a new lawn established through seeding in accordance
with the following requirements:
      1.   Material:
         a.   Fertilizer shall be standard commercial 10-8-6 or 10-6-4 grade
(or approved equal) uniform in composition, free flowing and suitable for
application with proposed equipment.
         b.   Seed mixture shall be a certified seed mix consisting of thirty
percent (30%) park Kentucky bluegrass, thirty percent (30%) Dawson creeping red
fescue, thirty percent (30%) "Fults" Puccinellia distans, and ten percent (10%)
Pennfine perennial rye grass, and shall be applied at the minimum rate of one
hundred eighty (180) pounds per acre. Any changes or substitutions must be
approved by the director of public works.
      2.   Preparation Of Seed Bed:
         a.   After the areas to be seeded have been brought to proper grades,
the area shall be thoroughly tilled to a depth of at least three inches (3") by
discing, harrowing, or other approved methods until the condition of the soil
is acceptable.
         b.   Fertilizer shall be distributed uniformly at the rate of four
hundred (400) pounds per acre and shall be incorporated into the soil to a
depth of at least three inches (3") by discing, harrowing or other approved
methods.
      3.   Planting:
         a.   Planting shall be done by hydroseeding with a mulching material
unless otherwise approved by the village during March, April, the last two (2)
weeks of August, September, and the first two (2) weeks of October; but no soil
will be sown during high winds, nor until the surface is suitable for working
and is in the proper condition for seeding.
   F.   Trees Not Allowed: The following trees shall not be allowed for
planting in parkways unless otherwise approved by the director of public works.
      Box elders.
      Elms.
      Evergreens, all upright.
      Ornamental (crab trees, flowering shrubs, fruit trees).
      Poplars.
      Soft maples.
      Willows.
   G.   Approved Trees: Trees to be planted in village parkways shall be
selected from the tree species listed below. The developer shall submit a plan
showing the tree planting schedule.
      Tree Selection
      Bur oak
      Copper leaf beech
      English oak
      European beech
      European black alder
      European larch
      Ginko or maidenhair tree (male only)
      Green ash (seedless)
       Marshall
       Summit
      Hackberry
      Kentucky coffee tree
      Kwanzan cherry
      Linden
       Greenspire
       Redmond
      Northern red oak
      Norway maple
       Crimson king maple
       Schwedler maple
      Red maple
      Sugar maple
      Sweet gum
      White ash
       Autumn purple
       Rosehill
      Others as approved by the village.
   Certain of the above species have special requirements which must be
provided by the developer in order to ensure the trees survive in a healthy
condition. The developers shall survey existing conditions to ensure
compatibility with each planting species.
   H.   Requirements For Planting Trees And Shrubbery:
      1.   Trees:
         a.   All plants shall conform in size and grade in accordance with
"American Standard For Nursery Stock".
         b.   All plants will be handled and planted in accordance with
accepted horticultural practices and professional standards as published by the
Illinois Landscape Contractors Association in "A Uniform Set Of Workmanship
Standards In Landscape Specifications".
         c.   Specified varieties of any species shall be specimen type trees
and shall be first class representatives of their normal species and varieties.
They shall have well developed root and branch systems, reasonably straight
stems, and a well defined single leader.
         d.   Trees shall be nursery grown with a good compact, fully developed
fibrous root system which has been developed by proper cultural treatment and
is sufficient enough to ensure plant growth.
         e.   Trees for parkways and other public areas shall be required
throughout all developments. Trees shall be planted in the parkways not less
than four feet (4') from any sidewalk or curb and spaced not more than forty
feet (40') apart and not less than two (2) per lot. However, at a street
corner, trees shall be located at least twenty five feet (25') from the
intersection of street right of way lines.
         f.   Trees shall be a minimum trunk diameter of two and one- half
inches (21/2"), calipered at six inches (6") above ground level. Trees shall be
northern nursery grown. Trees shall have been transplanted twice, the last
transplanting not less than four (4) years prior to planting. All trees shall
be tagged and identified as to species, size, and place of origin. Tags shall
remain in place until inspection and approval by the village is done both at
the nursery and at the final planting site. All trees shall be balled and
burlaped. All trees shall have straight trunks and good branching. Branches
shall begin from five (5) to six feet (6') above ground level and shall be high
quality representatives of their species in all regards, including general
shape. Each tree shall be planted plumb and at the same level as where it stood
in the nursery in relation to finished grade. Backfill shall be properly
fertilized with organic fertilizer and shall be thoroughly watered when the
hole is two-thirds (2/3) full of topsoil.
         g.   After watering, the filling shall be completed and the soil
thoroughly tamped. After planting, a three inch (3") mulch of wood chips or an
approved equal shall be applied over the disturbed ground and a shallow
watering basin provided around the tree.
         h.   All digging of trees in the nursery and all planting shall be
done during the proper season.
         i.   Each tree shall be staked when necessary with a two inch (2")
square stake six feet (6') long. The stake shall be driven plumb two feet (2')
into the ground adjacent to the tree. Each tree shall be tied at the top with a
figure eight hitch consisting of AWG #14 wire encased in a section of rubber
hose at the tree. If necessary, guide wires shall be used where more support
for the tree is needed.
         j.   All trees shall be maintained until established. All trees not in
a vigorous growing condition after one growing season shall be replaced at the
beginning of the next succeeding planting season, at no cost to the village.
         k.   Tree pits shall be at least six inches (6") wider than the
diameter of the ball, have vertical sides and a depth of at least twenty four
inches (24") below finished grade.
   I.   Requirements for Maintenance and Replacement of Landscaping Materials:
      1.   For all developments with the exception of individually owned
Single-Family Residential lots, site landscaping shall be maintained in
accordance with the approved development plans.
      2.   Administration: The Village shall monitor the implementation of
approved landscape plans and potential amendments thereto.
      3.   Inspection Required: For new development, before any use may be made
of property a final inspection of the premises must be obtained prior to
issuance of an occupancy certificate. An occupancy certificate will not be
issued unless such an inspection has been made and the completed landscape work
is found to be in compliance with an approved landscape plan, except that a
partial occupancy permit may be granted in the event that it should become
impossible or impractical by reason of weather conditions, strike, or any other
circumstance beyond the control of the person, firm, or corporation to whom the
approval has been granted to complete all work required before occupancy or
start of use, provided a bond, cash escrow, or other surety sufficient to
guarantee completion of the work has been provided to the Village.
      4.   Deviation/Substitution:
         a.   If, by reason of non-availability of approved plant materials or
any other valid circumstance, it becomes necessary to vary a plant type for
which approval has been granted as part of an approved landscape plan, the
Village shall have the right, but not the obligation, to permit substitution.
         b.   If replacement of plant material is required due to deterioration
or die back but sufficient space to accommodate mature growth of the species
specified in the approved landscape plan is not available, a substitution may
be proposed. The Village shall have the right, but not the obligation, to
permit the requested substitution.
         c.   Any potential deviations or substitutions from an approved
landscape plan shall be submitted to the Village for its review and
consideration prior to its installation in order to determine its suitability
relative to the site and the originally-approved landscape plan.
      5.   Maintenance and Enforcement:
         a.   It shall be the duty of the property owner to ensure compliance
with the approved landscape plan.
         b.   All landscaping, plant materials, and planting beds shall be kept
watered, fed, cultivated, pruned, and weeded by the property owner or other
person responsible for maintenance of the premises in order to provide healthy
conditions and a well-groomed appearance year-round.
         c.   All plant materials installed in compliance with the approved
landscape plan that have deteriorated or died shall be replaced promptly at the
expense of the property owner.
         d.   All planting areas shall be kept free of weeds, overgrowth, and
debris at all times.
         e.   Upon receipt of written notice from the Village regarding
deficiencies in the quantities and conditions of plant materials and/or their
maintenance, the property owner shall promptly correct any deficiencies in the
landscaping required of the approved plan.
         f.   Hardscape (concrete, asphalt, pavers) and site furnishings,
including but not limited to trash receptacles and corrals, lighting, seating/
benches, bollards, and other amenities of an approved site or landscape plan
shall be maintained in good condition and replaced by and at the expense of the
property owner as may be required over time as necessary. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989; amd. Ord. 91-12, 8-19-1991; Ord. 99-05, 3-15-1999; Ord. 2024-30, 12-9-
2024)
11-5-13: LOT GRADING:
   A.   General: All developments shall provide for the grading of all lots in
accordance with this title.
   B.   Lot Grading:
      1.   Grading of lots within the village shall be accomplished in such a
manner so as to prevent ponding in the event of complete failure of the storm
sewer system.
      2.   Longitudinal grading on all grassed areas of lots shall be kept
within the range of two percent (2%) and five percent (5%) unless otherwise
approved by the village. If slopes up to five (5) horizontal to one vertical or
steeper are approved, retaining walls or other treatments approved by the
village shall be required. In no case shall an earthen surface slope of three
(3) horizontal to one vertical or greater not be sodded. If an earthen surface
of two (2) horizontal to one vertical or steeper is approved, the sod shall be
staked.
      3.   Driveway grades on all lots, as measured from the top of curb to the
finished garage floor, shall be kept within the range of two percent (2%) and
eight percent (8%), except when a grade of eight percent (8%) or less is not
practical due to topographical conditions, in which case the village may
approve driveway grades up to ten percent (10%).
      4.   Where the slope between adjacent properties is five (5) horizontal
to one vertical or steeper, retaining walls or other treatments shall be
required.
   C.   Grading Certification: At the time of initial acceptance of public
improvements, the developer's engineer shall furnish the village with a
certificate stating that the finished grades around all structures conform to
the grading plan submitted at the time of review and approval and that all lots
drain properly. This certification shall be provided by the engineer who
prepared the "as built" plans. The "as built" plans shall have the results of
an elevation survey of the completed work denoted, showing actual elevation of
each location for which an elevation was denoted on the development plan. These
actual "as built" plan elevations shall be denoted next to the original
elevation which shall have a thin line drawn through it so as to remain
legible. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-5-14: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   All lines for electronic sounds and signals, telephone, and electric
services shall be placed in easements and entirely underground. Where
electronic sounds and signals, telephone, and electric service lines are placed
underground entirely throughout a developed area, the conduits or a cable shall
be placed within easements or dedicated public ways in a manner which will not
conflict with other underground services. All transformer and terminal boxes
shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
   B.   All gas mains shall be placed within the street right of way.
   C.   Underground utility work cannot commence until the appropriate public
utilities are staked and the village has been notified. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-5-15: PARKING LOTS:
   A.   General: All parking lots shall conform to both the zoning ordinance
and this title.
   B.   Design:
      1.   Plan: The design of all ground level outdoor lots shall be subject
to the review of the village and the regulations of title 10, chapter 9 of this
code.
      2.   Parking Lot Detention Prohibited: Detention in parking areas is
prohibited subject to specific site conditions.
      3.   Base Course Construction And Surfacing: All parking areas shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with section
11-5-7 of this chapter, with a minimum structural number of 2.5 except the
minimum surface slope shall be one percent (1%).
All off street loading berths or accessways from loading berths to the public
street shall be designed and constructed in accordance with section
11-5-7 of this chapter with a minimum structural number of 3.25.
      4.   Curbs And Gutters: Combination concrete curb and gutter or concrete
barrier curb is required around the perimeter of all parking lots with greater
than five (5) spaces and around all islands.
      5.   Traffic Control Signage: Traffic control signage shall conform to
the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices".
      6.   Striping: Striping of the pavement surface to define each parking
space is required and shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in width for the
length of each space. Striping for each parking space shall be painted white.
All areas designated as fire lanes and/or "NO PARKING" areas shall be painted
yellow. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-5-16: PROTECTION AND RESTORATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Introduction: A portion of the project construction required in
connection with a development is often in or adjacent to areas with existing
surface or underground improvements. The intent of this section is to codify
village requirements relative to construction affecting existing and future
improvements and the restoration of existing improvements. Plans and
specifications presented for village approval shall provide for the
implementation of the requirements of this section.
   B.   Hand Excavation: Where working space will permit, trenches may be
excavated by machine provided that by so doing, public and private improvements
will not be subjected to damage. If, however, excavation by machine methods
cannot be made without material damage being done, hand excavation shall be
employed.
   C.   Bracing And Sheeting: Open cut trenches shall be sheeted and braced as
required by any governing federal or state laws and as may be necessary to
protect life, property and the work.
   D.   Trench Side Slopes: The contractor may, where working conditions and
right of way permit, excavate pipeline trenches with sloping sides above the
top of the conduit only.
   E.   Short Tunnels: Trees, fire hydrants, sidewalks and other obstructions
may be encountered, the proximity of which may be a hindrance to open cut
excavation. In such cases, the developer shall excavate by means of short
tunnels in order to protect such obstruction against damage.
   F.   Piling Excavated Material: All excavated material shall be piled in a
manner that will not endanger the work and that will avoid obstructing
sidewalks and driveways. Fire hydrants under pressure, valve pit covers, valve
boxes, curb stop boxes, or other utility controls shall be left unobstructed
and accessible until the work is completed. Gutters shall be kept clear or
other satisfactory provisions made for street drainage. Natural watercourses
shall not be obstructed.
   G.   Structure Protection: Temporary and permanent support, adequate for
protection and maintenance of all underground and surface structures, drains,
sewers, water mains, service lines, and other obstructions encountered in the
progress of the work is required. Structures which have been disturbed shall be
restored.
   H.   Protection Of Property And Surface Structures: Trees, shrubbery,
fences, poles and all other property and surface structures shall be protected
during construction operations. Any fences, poles or other manmade surface
improvements which are moved or disturbed shall be restored to their original
condition, after construction is completed. Any trees, shrubbery or other
vegetation which are approved for removal shall be removed completely,
including stumps and roots. Responsibility for any damage or claims for damage
caused by construction operations to shrubbery or other landscape improvements
which were not authorized for removal shall be assumed by the developer.
Settlement of any damage or claims for damage shall be made by the developer as
soon as possible and in a manner satisfactory to the village.
   I.   Interruption To Utilities And Damage To Surface Improvements: All
reasonable precautions shall be taken against damage to existing utilities. In
the event of a break in an existing water main, gas main, sewer or underground
cable, the developer shall immediately notify a responsible official from the
organization operating the utility interrupted. The developer shall lend all
possible assistance in restoring service and shall assume all costs, charges or
claims connected with the interruption and repair of such services.
   J.   Traffic Control: All work within public rights of way shall conform to
the requirements of the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". The
provisions of this manual will be enforced when:
      1.   An opening is made into the existing pavement.
      2.   Construction takes place adjacent to the edge of the existing
pavement.
      3.   A utility crossing is made beneath the existing pavement.
      4.   It is necessary to close a lane of traffic due to construction
operations.
A full lane closure will be required whenever construction is underway or
whenever a vehicle is parked in the lane normally used for through traffic
(even if this facility is on a 4-lane roadway). Written permission for such a
lane closure must be obtained from the village prior to commencing
construction. signing will be required in conformance to the "Manual On Uniform
Traffic Control Devices". No construction operation is to commence until such
time that all required signs and barricades have been erected.
Unless written authorization is obtained from the village, all openings in any
pavement or traveled way will be backfilled prior to the end of the working
day. All excavations will be backfilled with gradation no. FA6 sand and a
temporary bituminous patch of at least two inches (2") in thickness shall be
constructed. In lieu of a bituminous patch, a steel plate (minimum of 1 inch of
thickness) over the excavation may be approved by the village upon request by
the developer.
   K.   Pavement Crossings: Unless otherwise specifically approved by the
village, all conduits crossing existing pavements shall be installed by
tunneling, jacking or augering. When the carrier pipe is a conduit intended to
operate under internal pressure, a casing pipe of adequate strength for all
applied loads shall be used. The nearest face of pits or other open excavations
on each side of a traveled pavement shall be at least ten feet (10') from the
edge of the pavement.
   L.   Backfill Requirements:
      1.   Where a cradle is used, it shall extend to a plane passing through
the horizontal diameter of the pipe. For conduits not requiring a cradle, and
not requiring select granular backfill, backfill below a plane passing through
the horizontal diameter of the pipe shall be made with selected materials
available from the trench excavation. Material placed in this zone shall be
free from all rocks which are capable of damaging the pipe or its coating. The
material shall be evenly and carefully placed and shall be hand tamped around
the pipe. For conduits not requiring select granular backfill, backfill from
the centerline of the pipe to the surface shall be made by any acceptable
method which will not dislodge or damage the pipe or cause bridging action in
the trench. Only selected excavation materials, free from clods or stones,
shall be used in backfilling up to six inches (6") above the top of the pipe.
      2.   For conduits requiring excavation beneath or within two feet (2') of
existing or proposed pavements, driveways or sidewalks or in other areas which
in the opinion of the village are or may be subjected to vehicular traffic
loading, select granular backfill shall be provided above the bottom of the
trench, or above the cradle if a cradle has been installed, and shall extend
upward to the surface of the ground or pavement. Materials for select granular
backfill shall consist of gradation no. FA6 sand.
   M.   Restoration Of Existing Improvement Surfaces: The contractor shall
restore all permanent type pavements, sidewalks, driveways, curbs, gutters,
trees, shrubbery, lawns, fences, poles, and other property and surface
structures removed or disturbed during or as a result of construction
operations to a condition which is equal in appearance and quality to the
condition that existed before the work began. The surface of all improvements
shall be constructed of the same material and match in appearance the surface
of the improvements which were removed.
   N.   Removal Of Pavements, Sidewalks, Driveway And Curb: When a conduit is
located along or across an improved surface, the width of the trench at the top
of the excavation shall be held as nearly as possible to the maximum width
indicated in exhibit no. 202. Where concrete pavements, sidewalk, driveway or
curbing is cut, the width of the cut shall exceed the actual width of the top
of the trench at subgrade by twelve inches (12") on each side. Exposed surface
of Portland cement or asphaltic concrete shall be cut with a pavement saw
before breaking. Care shall be taken in cutting to ensure that a straight joint
is secured.
   O.   Concrete Pavement Surface: Where the existing pavement surface is
Portland cement concrete, the pavement replacement shall consist of ten inch
(10") Portland cement concrete pavement. Portland cement concrete shall have a
compressive strength of four thousand (4,000) pounds per square inch at twenty
eight (28) days. Construction methods for Portland cement concrete pavement
shall conform to the current requirements of the "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". Pavement joints and reinforcing in the
replacement pavement shall conform to and match that in the adjacent pavement
area.
   P.   Bituminous Concrete Pavement Surface Rigid Base:
      1.   Where the existing pavement surface is bituminous concrete and the
base consists of a rigid material such as brick or Portland cement concrete,
the base replacement shall consist of eight inch (8") Portland cement concrete
base course. Portland cement concrete shall have compressive strength of four
thousand (4,000) pounds per square inch at twenty eight (28) days.
      2.   Construction methods for Portland cement concrete base course shall
conform to the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction". The
surface replacement shall consist of a bituminous prime coat and bituminous
concrete with a minimum thickness of three inches (3"), conforming to the
requirements of the current "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" for bituminous concrete binder and surface courses, class I.
   Q.   Bituminous Plant Mix Pavement Or Bituminous Treated Surface - Flexible
Base: Where the existing pavement is bituminous plant mix material or
bituminous surface treatment and the base consists of a flexible material such
as gravel, crushed stone, bituminous aggregate mixture, pozzuolanic materials
or soil cement, the base replacement shall consist of a six inch (6") compacted
thickness of material conforming to either of the following bases as described
in the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", including:
Bituminous aggregate mixture base course
   PCC base course
The surface replacement shall consist of a bituminous prime coat, a one and
one-half inch (11/2") binder course, and a one inch (1") surface course
conforming to the requirements of the "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction" for bituminous concrete binder and surface course, class
I.
   R.   Concrete Sidewalks, Driveways, Curb, Curb And Gutter:
      1.   Where necessary to remove and replace concrete sidewalk, driveways,
curb, and curb and gutter, replacements shall be made as follows: concrete
sidewalks, driveways, curb, and curb and gutter shall be replaced with concrete
having a compressive strength of not less than four thousand (4,000) psi at
twenty eight (28) days. Minimum thickness shall be five inches (5") for
sidewalks and six inches (6") for driveways and aprons.
      2.   Curb or curb and gutter dimensions and cross sections shall conform,
as nearly as practicable, with the existing installations. One-half inch (1/2")
preformed expansion joints shall be placed at intervals not exceeding fifty
feet (50') and at the junction with existing work. Sidewalks shall be finished
to match existing adjacent sidewalk surfaces.
   S.   Bituminous Driveways; Flexible Base: Where necessary to remove and
replace driveways with bituminous plant mix pavement or bituminous treated
surface on a flexible base, driveways shall be restored to a condition equal in
appearance and quality to the condition prior to construction. Minimum base
shall be six inches (6") of bituminous aggregate mixture. Minimum surface shall
consist of a bituminous prime plus bituminous concrete binder and surface
course, class I, with a minimum thickness of two and one- half inches (21/2").
Base and surface courses to conform to the requirements of "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction".
   T.   Cultivated Lawns:
      1.   When cultivated lawns are damaged, the areas so damaged shall be
restored by furnishing and placing topsoil and furnishing and placing sod as
detailed in this section.
      2.   Topsoil shall be furnished and placed to a depth of four inches
(4"). The work to be done includes preparing the subgrade, removal of surplus
earth, filling all irregularities or depressions in the planting area due to
settlement, weathering or other causes furnishing, placing, raking, and rolling
topsoil, and all incidental work. The topsoil furnished shall consist of loose,
friable, loamy, nonacid soil, rich in organic matter, and free from clay, and/
or other objectionable matter. Before topsoil is placed, the area to be covered
shall be shaped, trimmed and finished so that the specified amount of topsoil
shall bring the area to the proper grade. If the existing surface has become
hardened or crusted, it shall be raked or otherwise loosened to provide a
suitable bond with the topsoil. The topsoil shall be deposited and spread over
the planting surface, left with a smooth surface and carefully rolled.
      3.   Furnishing and placing sod shall include preparing the ground
surface and furnishing, transporting and placing the sod and other materials
required in the sodding operation. The sod shall be well rooted Kentucky
bluegrass. Each piece of sod shall be well covered with turf grass, shall be
free from noxious weeds and other objectionable plants, and shall not contain
substances injurious to growth. The grass shall be cut to a length of not less
than two inches (2"), nor more than four inches (4") before the sod is cut. The
consistency of adherent soil shall be such that it will not break, crumble, or
tear during handling and placing of the sod. The sod shall be cut in square or
rectangular pieces with its shortest side not less than twelve inches (12") nor
more than eighteen inches (18") long. The cut sod shall be not less than two
inches (2") thick. Sod which has been cut more than thirty six (36) hours shall
not be used without the approval of the director of public works. All sod in
stacks shall be kept moist and protected from exposure to the sun and wind, and
from freezing. Agricultural ground limestone and nutrients shall be included as
required. Three (3) waterings within two (2) weeks of placing the sod shall be
provided.
      4.   Any defective, dead or dying sod shall be removed and replaced.
   U.   Cleanup: Before acceptance of underground conduit construction, all
pipes, manholes, catch basins, fire hydrants, and other appurtenances shall be
cleaned of all debris and foreign material and all hydrants shall be field
painted.
   V.   Saw Cutting: When necessary to remove sections of existing pavement or
sidewalk, the edges of the section to be removed shall be cleanly cut with a
concrete saw. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-5-17: MODEL HOMES:
   A.   General: Model homes shall be permitted along with appurtenant
facilities.
      1.   Appurtenant facilities shall include: driveways, parking lots,
fences, signs, lighting and those facilities necessary to guide or direct the
general public to the model homes.
   B.   Construction:
      1.   Homes constructed for model use shall comply with all village
requirements including, but not limited to, building codes and zoning
regulations.
         a.   Models shall be in a single area contiguous to each other.
   C.   Appurtenant Facilities:
      1.   Parking Lots: Temporary hard surfaced parking shall be permitted
when approved by the building commissioner.
         a.   Front yard parking setback shall be ten feet (10').
         b.   Side yard parking setback shall be five feet (5').
         c.   Rear yard parking setback shall be thirty feet (30').
      2.   Fences: Temporary fences shall be permitted when approved by the
building commissioner.
         a.   Fences shall be limited to three feet (3') in height.
         b.   Fences shall be posted, stating front yard fences are not
permitted in West Dundee.
      3.   Signs: Temporary signing shall be permitted based upon the following
criteria and when approved by the building commissioner.
         a.   Model Area: One sign not exceeding twenty (20) square feet shall
be permitted to designate the model area.
         b.   Directional Signs: Directional signs shall be permitted in the
development to help route the public to the model area, these signs shall not
exceed three (3) square feet in area.
         c.   Model Home: Each model home shall be permitted one sign
designating the name of that model and shall not exceed five (5) square feet in
area.
         d.   Signage: All signage shall not be in or on the public right of
way.
      4.   Other Appurtenances: Anything temporary not specifically addressed
may be permitted when approved by the building commissioner. (Ord. 96-05, 2-19-
1996)
CHAPTER 6
APPROVAL AND ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Performance Guarantee
11-6-2: Preconstruction Meeting
11-6-3: Construction Of Improvements
11-6-4: Inspection Of Improvements
11-6-5: Material Testing And Evaluations
11-6-6: Acceptance Of Improvements
11-6-7: As Built Plans
11-6-8: Maintenance Guarantee
11-6-1: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
No work shall be started on any improvement until the applicant has posted a
guarantee in the amount equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
estimated costs of the subdivision improvements as approved by the village, in
order to ensure that the work is performed according to the plans and
specifications and according to good engineering and installation practices.
The guarantee shall also be sufficient to secure all lot improvements on the
individual lots of the subdivision as required in these regulations, and shall
be conditional upon the installation of the required improvements within two
(2) years from the date that the final plat is approved by the board of
trustees. The performance guarantee shall comply with all statutory
requirements and shall be satisfactory to the village attorney as to form and
manner of execution, and shall be approved by the village board as to amount
and surety and conditions satisfactory to the village board. Such guarantee
shall be secured by either:
   A.   A certificate of deposit with or an escrow account at a federally
insured bank or savings and loan association with resources of at least ten
million dollars ($10,000,000.00) under the provisions of an escrow agreement
approved in form by the village attorney, in an amount equal to one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated construction cost as approved by
the village and subject to draw by the village to install subdivision
improvements if they are not installed by the subdivider in accordance to the
plan and specifications and/or according to good engineering practices; or
   B.   A clean, nondeclining, irrevocable letter of credit in such form as
approved by the village attorney, issued by a federally insured bank or savings
and loan association with resources of at least ten million dollars
($10,000,000.00) in an amount equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%)
of the estimated construction cost as approved by the village. The letter shall
provide that funds may be drawn only by the village.
   C.   A performance guarantee shall be reduced only upon recommendation of
the director of public works and approval by the village board upon application
for payout by the subdivider in amounts such that funds or credit remaining
will always equal one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the value of the
uncompleted work, as determined by the village; and such that not more than
ninety percent (90%) of the guarantee amount is released prior to the
acceptance of the improvements by the village in accordance with section
11-6-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-6-2: PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
   A.   Prior to initiating any construction, the developer, his contractors,
and the design engineer shall schedule a meeting with the village. The purpose
of the meeting is to review the construction and inspection procedures of the
development plan.
   B.   The developer shall furnish the village with a list of construction
improvement contractor's names and phone numbers including after hours
emergency phone numbers of authorized representatives, and an estimated time
schedule for construction. The construction of improvements shall be done in
the following sequence:
      1.   Underground utilities work.
      2.   Pavement construction except final surface course.
      3.   Sidewalks and streetlights.
      4.   Final grading, topsoil, landscaping, and signage.
      5.   Final pavement surface course.
   C.   All requirements of other governmental agencies, including the federal
government relative to safety shall be complied with. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-6-3: CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Construction Completion Schedule: The developer shall complete all
improvements within twenty four (24) months following the approval of the final
plat by the corporate authorities, except public parks and detention areas
which shall be completed within twelve (12) months, and except any improvements
for which specified time limits are included in the development agreement which
shall be completed within the specified time limits shown in the agreement. If
work is not completed within the time prescribed herein, the village shall have
the right to call upon the financial security for the purpose of completing
improvements or conforming to the provisions of this title.
   B.   Protection, Maintenance And Repair Of Existing Improvements:
      1.   The developer, his contractors, and their suppliers shall be jointly
and severally responsible to ensure that existing improvements and the property
of the village are not damaged or rendered less useful or unsightly by any
construction of improvements or any other action.
      2.   This subsection is intended to include damage or nuisance with
respect to adjoining land, existing improvements of the village such as:
pavements, sidewalks, curb and gutter, parkways, landscaping, water mains,
sanitary sewer, open ditches, culverts, storm sewers and any appurtenances.
      3.   To minimize the possibility of damage to pavements by heavy
trucking, the village shall establish routes to be used for access to the
development site by equipment and trucks.
      4.   The developer shall be responsible for enforcement of these
instructions upon his contractors or suppliers.
      5.   The developer shall be responsible for snowplowing and ice control
on all streets which are within the development until initial acceptance. The
developer shall provide for the village to perform these services on streets,
which serve occupied properties, by paying an annual fee at a rate not to
exceed that rate determined each year by dividing the budgeted operating costs
of the snow and ice control program of the village by the existing mileage of
accepted village streets. The minimum charge shall be paid by developers who
have less than one-half (1/2) mile of unaccepted streets in their development
which are serving occupied properties.
      6.   The developer shall be responsible for the control of weeds, grass,
refuse, junk, and other nuisances in the project area in accordance with the
standards established in village ordinances unless stricter requirements are
included in subdivision agreements or annexation. The developer shall continue
to be responsible for the proper maintenance of any parcels of property for
which the developer transfers ownership to the village until such time as the
development's improvements are initially accepted by the village in writing in
accordance with the provisions of this title.
   C.   Work Requirements During The Period Of Construction:
      1.   The developer shall maintain the construction site and surrounding
areas including all public ways, sewers, and drains free from debris and trash.
      2.   Where pavements are used by construction vehicles and equipment, the
developer shall clean such streets of dirt and other foreign materials at the
end of each day's operation or as directed by the village.
      3.   During dry weather, an effective dust control procedure shall be
performed, such as watering.
      4.   A positive erosion control system shall be established and
maintained to prevent storm water eroded soils to flow onto adjacent improved
grassed areas or other adjacent properties. Provisions for temporary detention
shall also be established and maintained to protect adjacent properties from
flooding damage during construction.
      5.   The developer shall only use such streets for ingress and egress to
the construction site as approved by the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-6-4: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   All required improvements, public and private, shall be subject to
inspection by representatives of the village during their construction for
compliance with the provisions of this title. The developer shall notify the
village not less than twenty four (24) hours in advance of the construction of
any required improvements in order to arrange for field inspection. The
director of public works is empowered to condemn and order the removal of any
construction work or improvements which are not in compliance with the
development plan or other village ordinances. Such condemned construction shall
be promptly removed and replaced in accordance with the development plan and
village ordinances.
   B.   The director of public works or his authorized representative may
require that work be suspended with due cause and such due cause shall include,
but not be limited to, conditions, questionable materials or construction,
methods of construction, workmanship or nonadherence to the development plan or
this title.
   C.   At the time the developer submits an application for final plat
approval in accordance with the provisions of this title, he shall pay to the
village an inspection fee deposit of two percent (2%) of the estimated cost of
required public and private improvements. The fee deposit shall be used to
defray the cost of inspection by the village and may be increased if necessary
to meet all inspection costs incurred by the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-6-5: MATERIAL TESTING AND EVALUATIONS:
   A.   All material incorporated into any required improvements of this title
shall be subject to testing and evaluation in accordance with the provisions of
this title.
   B.   All costs associated with material testing and evaluation shall be
borne by the developer or owner and performed by independent laboratories or
others evidencing expertise for specific evaluations subject to the approval of
the village.
   C.   Copies of all material testing results and evaluations shall be
directed to the attention of the director of public works for review for
compliance with the requirements of this title. The tests and evaluations for
improvements shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Concrete Tests:
         a.   Slump test.
         b.   Air content test.
         c.   Compressive strength test.
      2.   Pavement Evaluation:
         a.   Mix design and verification at plant.
         b.   Field density test.
         c.   Dynaflect analysis prior to initial acceptance.
      3.   Earthwork:
         a.   IBR determination.
         b.   Proctor curves.
         c.   Field density test. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-6-6: ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Initial Acceptance:
      1.   Between the time of substantial completion and completion of the
construction of the required improvement, the village shall inventory
deficiencies in the required improvements which do not totally conform with the
provisions of this title and submit a list thereof to the developer for
correction. When the deficiencies have been corrected, the engineer shall
prepare a certificate of initial acceptance, the form for which shall be
obtained from the village.
      2.   Following the review and approval of the director of public works
and the village manager, the village manager shall forward the certificate of
initial acceptance of the completed improvements to the corporate authorities.
      3.   Upon receipt of the certificate, the corporate authorities shall
consider approval of the certificate of initial acceptance, thereupon formally
accepting such improvements subject to the terms of the maintenance guarantee.
      4.   The certificate of initial acceptance of required improvements, as
evidenced by the signature of the director of public works and the village
manager and village president, shall mark the beginning of the one year
guarantee period covering the workmanship and materials incorporated into the
required improvements.
   B.   Final Acceptance:
      1.   Prior to the expiration of the twelve (12) month guarantee period,
the director of public works shall prepare an inventory of deficiencies or
"final punch list" if any, that must be corrected in accordance with the
provisions of this title.
      2.   After all deficiencies on the "final punch list" have been
corrected, with the confirmation of the director of public works, the developer
may request the release of the financial security for the maintenance
guarantee. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-6-7: AS BUILT PLANS:
   A.   Prior to initial acceptance of improvements, the developer or owner
shall cause its design engineer to prepare and submit one set of high quality
fixed line (4 mil double matte) Mylar, clearly and legibly, showing any and all
changes from the approved plans, which plans shall be certified by the
engineer.
   B.   The as built set of plans shall be submitted to the village for
retention as part of the village's permanent supporting document file.
   C.   Subject plans shall show horizontal and vertical location of pipes and
service appurtenances referenced to property lines and United States geological
survey datum, and the development's bench marks.
   D.   The approved development plan shall be used for the base of the as
builts and shall be accompanied by an overall utility plan at a scale of one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-6-8: MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE:
   A.   At the time of the acceptance of the required improvements by the
village board the developer shall file a maintenance guarantee with the village
board in the amount of fifteen percent (15%) of the estimated cost of the
required improvements and in a form satisfactory to the village attorney. Such
guarantee may be held by the village for a period of twelve (12) months after
acceptance of the improvements for the purpose of:
      1.   Guaranteeing and securing the correction of any defect in material
or workmanship furnished for such surface improvements, latent in character and
not discernible at the time of final inspection or acceptance by the village;
and
      2.   Guaranteeing against any damage to such improvements by reason of
the settling of ground, base or foundation.
   B.   The maintenance guarantee shall also provide that, if such defects have
so developed, then the guarantee may be applied by the village on matters to
assure the correction of such defects. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
CHAPTER 7
DEDICATION OF PUBLIC LANDS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Dedication Of Public Lands Or Payments Of Fees In Lieu Thereof Required
11-7-2: Criteria For Dedications
11-7-2-1: Park And Recreational Lands
11-7-2-2: School Sites
11-7-2-3: Municipal And Public Facilities
11-7-2-4: Libraries
11-7-3: Contribution In Lieu Of Site Dedications
11-7-4: Reservation Of Additional Land
11-7-5: Combining With Adjoining Developments
11-7-6: Topography And Grading
11-7-7: Improved Sites
11-7-8: Objections
11-7-9: Condition To Annexation
11-7-10: Indemnification
11-7-11: Distribution
11-7-12: Needs Assessment; Land And Capital Facilities Acquisition Plan
11-7-13: Time Of Payment
11-7-14: Miscellaneous
11-7-1: DEDICATION OF PUBLIC LANDS OR PAYMENTS OF FEES IN LIEU THEREOF
REQUIRED:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or of a final plat of
a planned unit development, each subdivider or developer shall be required to
dedicate land for park, recreational, school, municipal, and library purposes
to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or
shall be required to make a cash contribution in lieu of actual land
dedication, or a combination of both, at the option of the village with the
concurrence of the affected district or districts, which concurrence shall be
obtained in writing. However, the village shall have the final decision making
power in this regard. The contributions required hereunder shall be made in
accordance with following criteria and formulas stipulated in section
11-7-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-2: CRITERIA FOR DEDICATIONS:
11-7-2-1: PARK AND RECREATIONAL LANDS:
   A.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly on the amount of land required for dedication.
The total requirement shall be ten (10) acres of land per one thousand (1,000)
of ultimate population and may be allocated by the village board at its
discretion based upon the following criteria:
TYPE OF PARK ACREAGE
 
Recreation Area                    Minimum Size      Per 1,000 People
Play lot                           8,000 square feet n/a
Neighborhood park                  3     acres       2
Villagewide park for active sports 10    acres       4
Villagewide recreation park        15    acres       4
Total                                                10  acres of land
 
These requirements for acreage are based upon a review of available data
studies and literature on the subject, including, but not limited to, the
National Recreation and Park Association's "Recreation, Park And Open Space
Standards And Guidelines, 1990". These requirements shall be presumed as the
appropriate acreage requirements and shall be used in calculating any cash in
lieu of land contribution herein unless timely objected to as provided herein.
Objections to these acreage requirements for any particular development shall
be made in accordance with section
11-7-8 of this chapter to the planning and zoning commission. Failure to timely
object to these acreage requirements in accordance with section
11-7-8 of this chapter shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection
at a later time.
   B.   Location: The village's comprehensive plan shall be used as a guideline
in locating sites. A central location that will serve equally the entire
development is most desirable. In large developments, these sites can be
located throughout the development according to established standards for park
area distances.
   C.   Credit For Private Open Spaces And Recreation Areas: When subdividers
or developers provide their own open space for recreation areas and facilities,
it may have the effect of reducing the demand for local public recreational
services. Since private open space is not available to the general public of
the village, it is the policy of the village that private open space will be
discounted by at least fifty percent (50%) or more at the discretion of the
village. The actual discount shall be determined based on factors such as, but
not limited to: the scale, nature, and location of the private open space
benefit to be provided.
      1.   Depending on the size of the development, a portion of the park and
recreation area in subdivisions or planned unit developments may, at the sole
option of the village board, be provided in the form of "private" open space in
lieu of dedicated "public open space". The extent of the space shall be
determined by the village board based on the needs of the projected residents
and in conformance to the total park and recreation land for the general area.
      2.   In general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated parks
will imply a substantially higher degree of improvement and the installation of
recreation facilities, including equipment by the developer as part of his
obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including specifications of
facilities to be installed, must be approved by the village and before any
credit is given for private recreation areas, the subdivider or developer must
guarantee that these private recreation areas will be permanently maintained
for such use by the execution of the appropriate legal documents. When an
adjustment for private recreation areas is warranted, it will be necessary to
compute the total park land dedication that would have been required from the
subdivision or planned unit development and then subtract the credit to be
given.
   D.   Site Development Fee: Based on a study of the park district, the
village has determined that the initial site development costs for each acre of
park land contributed to the village pursuant to this section is thirty
thousand dollars ($30,000.00). Accordingly, a site development fee of thirty
thousand dollars ($30,000.00) per acre shall be required. The total cash
contribution shall be based on the number of acres required pursuant to
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989; amd. Ord. 89-13, 9-25-
1989)
11-7-2-2: SCHOOL SITES:
   A.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate number of students to be
generated by a subdivision or planned unit development shall bear directly on
the amount of land required to be dedicated for school sites. The land
dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining the ratio of: 1)
estimated children to be served in each such school classification over the 2)
maximum recommended number of students to be served in each such school
classification as stated herein, and then applying such ratio to 3) the
appropriate number of acres for a school site of each such school
classification as stated herein. The product thereof shall be the acres of land
deemed needed to have sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated
increase in number of children in each such school classification. (Ord. 89-04,
4-3-1989)
   B.   School Classifications And Size Of School Site: These requirements for
acreage are based upon a review of available data studies and literature on the
subject, including, but not limited to, information provided by the state
superintendent of education and the unique characteristics of Kane County.
These requirements for acreage shall be presumed as the appropriate acreage
requirements and shall be used in calculating any cash in lieu of land
contribution herein unless timely objected to as provided herein. Objections to
these acreage requirements for any particular development shall be made in
accordance with section
11-7-8 of this chapter to the planning and zoning commission. Failure to timely
object to these acreage requirements in accordance with section
11-7-8 of this chapter shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection
at a later time.
School classifications and size of school sites within the village shall be
determined in accordance with the following criteria:
 
                           Maximum Number Of Students Appropriate Number Of
School Classification By   For Each Such School       Acres Of Land For Each
Grades                     Classification             School Site Of Such
                                                      Classification
Elementary schools, grades 670                        15
kindergarten through 6
Junior high schools,       850                        25
grades 7 through 8
High schools, grades 9     1,500                      70
through 12
 
   C.   Location: The village comprehensive plan and/or the standards adopted
by the affected school district shall be used as a guideline in locating sites.
(Ord. 03-43, 12-15-2003)
11-7-2-3: MUNICIPAL AND PUBLIC FACILITIES:
The ultimate density of a proposed development shall bear directly on the
amount of land required to be dedicated for municipal sites. Based on an
evaluation of the current scope and level of the municipal services provided
and the attributed impact of residential growth on said services, it has been
determined that the total requirement shall be one acre of land per one hundred
fifty (150) of the ultimate population and may be allocated by the village
board at its discretion. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-2-4: LIBRARIES:
The ultimate density of a proposed development shall bear directly on the
amount of land required to be dedicated for library sites. Based on a study
conducted by the village, it has been determined that the total requirement
shall be one acre of land per three thousand five hundred (3,500) of the
ultimate population and may be allocated by the village board at its
discretion. (Ord. 89-14, 11-6-1989)
11-7-3: CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF SITE DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Site Is Too Small Or Inappropriate: When the development is small and
the resulting site is too small to be practical or when the available land is
inappropriate for park and recreational purposes or a school site or is in
conflict with the approved comprehensive plan, the village, with the
concurrence of the affected district, shall require the subdivider or developer
to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication.
      1.   The cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation land dedication
shall be held in trust by the village or other public body designated by the
village and shall be used solely for the acquisition of park and recreation
land as classified above, which will be available to serve the immediate or
future needs of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the
improvement of other existing local park and recreation lands that already
serve such needs or for any other lawful park purpose or for any park purpose
agreed to by the subdivider or developer at the time of platting.
      2.   The cash contributions in lieu of school sites shall be held in
trust by the village or other public body designated by the village and shall
be used solely for the acquisition of land for school sites to serve the
immediate or future needs of children from that subdivision or development or
for the improvement to any existing school site that already serves such needs,
but not for the construction of school buildings or additions thereto unless
agreed to otherwise by the subdivider or developer at the time of platting.
      3.   The cash contributions in lieu of library sites shall be held in
trust by the village or other public body designated by the village and shall
be used solely for the acquisition of land for library sites to serve the
immediate or future needs of residents from that subdivision or development or
for the improvement to any existing library site that already serves such
needs, but not for the construction of library buildings or additions thereto
unless agreed to otherwise by the subdivider or developer at the time of
platting.
      4.   If any portion of a cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation
land dedication, school sites, municipal sites, or library sites not expended
for the purposes set forth herein within thirteen (13) years from the date of
receipt, it shall be refunded to the record owner of the subdivided land at the
time of the refund. If there is more than one record owner of the subdivided
land or of the land that comprises the planned unit development, as applicable,
such record owners shall share in the refund pro rata based on the fees
originally paid by each property. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
   B.   Fair Market Value; School, Municipal, And Library Sites: The cash
contributions in lieu of land shall be based on the "fair market value" of the
acres of land in the area that otherwise would have been dedicated as school,
municipal, and library sites. The fair market value, on a per acre basis, shall
assume, unless determined otherwise pursuant to section
11-7-8 of this chapter, that the land is zoned single-family detached
residential for approximately eleven thousand (11,000) square foot lots,
subdivided with appropriate frontage on a dedicated road, stubbed with village
sewer and water, has all appropriate utilities available, is improved as set
forth in sections
11-7-6 and
11-7-7 of this chapter, and is otherwise property capable of being used for
residential development. Based upon an analysis of assessed valuations within
West Dundee, it has been determined that the present "fair market value" of
such improved land in and surrounding the village is, as of December 2003, one
hundred fifty seven thousand five hundred dollars ($157,500.00) per acre. This
figure shall be subject to a "CPI adjustment" and shall be adjusted each
September by the village, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the "all items" "Consumer Price Index For Urban Consumers" (1982-1984 = 100)
for Chicago, Illinois, published by the United States department of labor's
bureau of labor statistics ("CPI") for the month of September preceding the
year of adjustment and the denominator of which is the CPI for the month of
September. If any index is calculated from a base different from the base
period 1982-1984 = 100, such index shall be converted to a base period of 1982-
1984 = 100 by use of a conversion factor supplied by said bureau of labor
statistics. If the CPI is discontinued or replaced, such other governmental
cost of living index or computation which replaces the CPI shall be used in
order to obtain substantially the same result as would be obtained if the CPI
had not been discontinued or replaced. The "fair market value" as defined above
shall be used in calculating any cash in lieu of land contribution herein
unless timely objected to as provided in section
11-7-8 of this chapter. Objections to the "fair market value" as defined above
shall be made in accordance with section
11-7-8 of this chapter to the planning and zoning commission. Failure to timely
object to the "fair market value" as defined above in accordance with section
11-7-8 of this chapter shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection
at a later time.
   C.   Fair Market Value; Park And Recreation Sites: The cash contributions in
lieu of land shall be based on the "fair market value" of the acres of land in
the area that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and recreation sites.
The fair market value, on a per acre basis, shall assume, unless determined
otherwise pursuant to section
11-7-8 of this chapter, that the land is readily accessible by an improved
surface and adjacent to residentially zoned property. Based upon an analysis of
assessed valuations within West Dundee, it has been determined that the present
"fair market value" of such land in and surrounding the village is, as of
December 2003, forty seven thousand nine hundred forty dollars ($47,940.00) per
acre. This figure shall be adjusted by the village, multiplied by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the "all items" "Consumer Price Index For Urban
Consumers" (1982-1984 = 100) for Chicago, Illinois, published by the United
States department of labor's bureau of labor statistics ("CPI") for the month
of September preceding the year of adjustment and the denominator of which is
the CPI for the month of September. If any index is calculated from a base
different from the base period 1982-1984 = 100, such index shall be converted
to a base period of 1982-1984 = 100 by use of a conversion factor supplied by
said bureau of labor statistics. If the CPI is discontinued or replaced, such
other governmental cost of living index or computation which replaces the CPI
shall be used in order to obtain substantially the same result as would be
obtained if the CPI had not been discontinued or replaced. The "fair market
value" as defined above shall be used in calculating any cash in lieu of land
contribution herein unless timely objected to as provided in section
11-7-8 of this chapter. Objections to the "fair market value" as defined above
shall be made in accordance with section
11-7-8 of this chapter to the planning and zoning commission. Failure to timely
object to the "fair market value" as defined above in accordance with section
11-7-8 of this chapter shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection
at a later time. (Ord. 03-43, 12-15-2003)
   D.   Criteria For Requiring Dedication And A Fee: There will be situations
in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a combination of land
dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when: 1) only a portion of the land to be developed is
proposed as the location for a park or school site (that portion of the land
within the subdivision falling within the park or school location shall be
dedicated as a site as stated above, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof
shall be required for any additional land that would have been required to be
dedicated); or 2) a major part of the local park or school site has already
been acquired by the particular district and only a small portion of land is
needed from the development to complete the site (the remaining portion shall
be required by dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof for the rest
of the required land shall be required).
   E.   Density Formula: The following table of population density is generally
indicative of current and short range projected trends in family size for new
construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of required dedication
of acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof unless a written
objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer:
TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
CHILDREN PER UNIT
                             Junior Total  High
                  Elementary High   Grades School Adults
Type Of Preschool Grades K-  Grades K-8    Grades 18      Total Per Dwelling
Unit    0-4 Years 6          7-8    5-13   9-12   Years   Unit    
                  5-11 Years 12-13  Years  14-17  Plus
                             Years         Years
                                  Junior Total  High   Adults
                       Elementary High   Grades School
Type Of Unit Preschool Grades K-  Grades K-8    Grades 18     Total Per Dwelling
             0-4 Years 6          7-8    5-13   9-12   Years  Unit    
                       5-11 Years 12-13  Years  14-17  Plus
                                  Years         Years
Detached Single-Family:
 2 bedroom  0.113     0.136      0.048  0.184  0.020  1.700  2.017
 3 bedroom  0.292     0.369      0.173  0.542  0.184  1.881  2.899
 4 bedroom  0.418     0.530      0.298  0.828  0.360  2.158  3.764
 5 bedroom  0.283     0.345      0.248  0.593  0.300  2.594  3.770
Attached Single-Family:
 1 bedroom  -0-       -0-        -0-    -0-    -0-    1.193  1.193
 2 bedroom  0.064     0.088      0.048  0.136  0.038  1.752  1.990
 3 bedroom  0.212     0.234      0.058  0.292  0.059  1.829  2.392
 4 bedroom  0.323     0.322      0.154  0.476  0.173  2.173  3.145
Apartments:
 Efficiency -0-       -0-        -0-    -0-    -0-    1.294  1.294
 1 bedroom  -0-       -0-        0.001  0.003  0.001  1.754  1.758
 2 bedroom  0.047     0.086      0.042  0.128  0.046  1.693  1.914
 3 bedroom  0.052     0.234      0.123  0.357  0.118  2.526  3.053
 
Note: There are only 3 significant categories provided in this chart. Because
of the similarity of yields of all types of attached single- family dwelling
units, only 1 category is provided. The same is true with apartments; thus,
only 1 category. Because of the relatively short history of some newer types of
detached and attached single-family units, individual evaluations may be
necessary.
Illinois School Consulting Service
Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc.
Naperville, Illinois
      1.   A "bedroom" as used in this chapter shall include any den, study, or
extra room located on any floor in a dwelling unit which is not clearly
identified for some other specific purpose such as a kitchen (1 per unit),
dining room (1 per unit), living room (1 per unit), bathroom, and family room
(1 per unit). In addition, any room that is not a kitchen or bathroom which is
sectioned off from the remainder of the house by a door or doors is presumed to
be a bedroom.
      2.   This table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit shall
be used in calculating any cash in lieu of land contribution herein unless
objected to as provided in section
11-7-8 of this chapter. Objections to the table of estimated ultimate
population per dwelling unit shall be made in accordance with section
11-7-8 of this chapter to the planning and zoning commission. Failure to object
to the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit in accordance
with section
11-7-8 of this chapter shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection
at a later time.
      3.   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to
the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit listed above, he
shall submit his own demographic study showing the estimated additional
population to be generated from the subdivision or planned unit development,
and in that event final determination of the density formula shall be made in
accordance with section
11-7-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-4: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
When the comprehensive plan or the standards of the village call for a larger
amount of park and recreational land or school sites in a particular
subdivision or planned unit development than the developer is required to
dedicate pursuant to this chapter, the land needed beyond the developer's
contribution shall be set aside and reserved by the developer for subsequent
purchase by the village or other public body designated by the village,
provided that such acquisition is made within five (5) years from the date of
approval of the final plat. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-5: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS:
Where appropriate, public open space or a school site that is to be dedicated
should, if possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining developments
in order to produce usable recreation areas and/or school sites without undue
hardship on a particular developer. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-6: TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING:
The slope, topography, and geology of the dedicated site as well as its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purpose. Wetlands and
floodplains may be accepted for village ownership and maintenance, but shall
not serve as a credit toward the park site contribution. Storm water detention
areas shall not be accepted for village ownership and maintenance, and the
portion of a detention area designed to function primarily as a component of
the storm water control system shall not serve as a credit toward the required
park site contribution. Retention areas shall not be accepted for village
ownership and maintenance and shall not serve as a credit toward the required
park site contribution. A park site shall be not less than one acre in area.
Wetlands, floodplains, detention areas, retention areas, and areas of steep
slope shall not be accepted as school, municipal, or library sites and shall
not serve as a credit toward the required school, municipal or library site
cash in lieu of land contribution. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-7: IMPROVED SITES:
All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, gas, water, sewer, and streets (including enclosed drainage and
curb and gutter), as applicable to the location of the site, and shall
otherwise comply with the requirements of this code. The landscaping normally
included within the definition of "improved" sites under this code may be
deleted due to the delay time between dedication of any such school site and
the construction of school facilities thereon. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-8: OBJECTIONS:
   A.   Hearing: All objections relating to acreage requirements, presumptions
as to fair market value, the table of estimated ultimate population per
dwelling unit or any other application of this chapter to a particular
subdivision or planned development, shall first be referred to the planning and
zoning commission for hearing. An objection must be made, if at all, prior to
the approval by the village of the final plat. A failure to object by such time
shall constitute a waiver of the right to object to the provisions of this
chapter.
      1.   Duties Of The Planning And Zoning Commission: The planning and
zoning commission shall serve in an advisory capacity and shall have the
following duties:
         a.   Advise and assist the village in resolving objections regarding
the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit in subsection
 11-7-3E of this chapter, the size of the park, school, municipal, and library
sites in section
11-7-2 of this chapter, the fair market value of the land used to calculate the
cash contribution in subsections
11-7-3B and C of this chapter, or any other application of this chapter to a
particular subdivision or planned development.
         b.   The village shall adopt procedural rules to be used by the
planning and zoning commission in carrying out the duties imposed by this
chapter.
      2.   Professional Reports: The village shall make available to the
planning and zoning commission all professional reports relating to the table
of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit, the size of the park and
school sites, and the fair market value of land used in calculating these fees.
The planning and zoning commission may also retain the services of
professionals (attorneys, appraisers, statisticians, etc.) to assist them in
their review of issues raised by any objection.
   B.   Procedure For Resolving An Objection:
      1.   Upon receipt of an objection, the village clerk shall place the same
on the next regular agenda of the village board. Thereafter the village board
shall refer the objection to the planning and zoning commission and by
resolution establish a hearing date.
      2.   The planning and zoning commission shall provide public notice of
the hearing date to consider the objection and shall notify affected school and
park districts by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the filing of
the objection and of any hearing regarding same.
      3.   The objector shall publish notice of the hearing date once each week
for three (3) consecutive weeks, at least thirty (30) days before but no more
than sixty (60) days before the scheduled date of the hearing. Notice shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the corporate limits of
the village of West Dundee. The notice of public hearing shall not appear in
the part of the paper where legal notices or classified ads appear. The notice
shall not be smaller than one-quarter page of a standard size or tabloid size
newspaper. The objector shall send a copy of said notice to any person who has
requested said notice by certified mail at least thirty (30) days prior to the
hearing date.
      4.   The notice shall contain all of the following information:
         a.   The headline shall read:
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON OBJECTION TO APPLICATION OF ORDINANCE REQUIRING THE
DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS, SCHOOL SITES, MUNICIPAL SITES, AND/OR LIBRARY SITES
OR CALCULATION OF CASH IN LIEU THEREOF.
         b.   The date, time, and location of the public hearing.
         c.   A statement that the purpose of the hearing is to consider the
objection to a component of the application of the ordinance requiring the
dedication of park lands, school sites, municipal sites, library sites or
calculation of cash in lieu thereof.
         d.   A general description of the service area or areas within the
village that are the subject of the hearing.
         e.   A statement that the village shall make available to the public,
upon request, an easily understandable and detailed map of the service area or
areas to which the ordinance applies, and any other available information about
the objection.
         f.   A statement that any member of the public affected by the
ordinance or the service area or areas shall have the right to appear at the
public hearing and present testimony and/or evidence in support of or against
the objection.
      5.   A public hearing shall be held for the consideration of the
objection. In addition to the village, any affected school, park district and
library district shall be allowed to participate in such hearing as a party
thereto to present evidence, cross examine witnesses and make arguments to the
planning and zoning commission regarding the issues raised in the objection.
The planning and zoning commission shall make a recommendation to adopt, reject
in whole or in part, or modify the objection presented at the hearing, by
written report to the village, within sixty (60) days after the hearing. The
village shall then have at least sixty (60) but not more than one hundred
twenty (120) days to approve, disapprove, or modify, by ordinance or
resolution, the findings in this chapter as it pertains to the development in
question.
   C.   Costs And Fees: The objector shall bear all costs of a hearing before
the planning and zoning commission, including, but not limited to: attendance
fees paid the planning and zoning commission members, publication costs,
professional consultants and any other expenses of the village. Before a
hearing date is set the objector shall deposit with the village a ten thousand
dollar ($10,000.00) escrow to cover these costs which shall be replenished
monthly by the objector after payment of any outstanding expenses incurred by
the village. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-9: CONDITION TO ANNEXATION:
The dedications of land or cash contribution in lieu thereof required by this
chapter shall also be required as a condition to the annexation of any land to
the village, and provisions therefor shall at a minimum be incorporated in any
annexation or preannexation agreement governing such land. However, the village
reserves the right to negotiate dedications of land or cash in lieu of land or
a combination thereof greater than those set forth herein. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-
1989)
11-7-10: INDEMNIFICATION:
As a precondition to the village distributing school, library, or park
dedications and/or fees in lieu thereof, the school district, library district,
and park district shall execute an indemnification agreement in the form set
forth in exhibit A, incorporated herein by reference and available in the
office of the village clerk. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-11: DISTRIBUTION:
   A.   The cash in lieu of land contribution imposed by this chapter shall be
collected and held by the village to be distributed in accordance with the
standards in this chapter to the appropriate unit of local government and to be
used for the purposes set forth in this chapter. Such distributions shall be
made only after the village has received a formal written request for release
of the accumulated funds.
   B.   As a condition of distribution of these dedications and/or cash in lieu
of land contribution, the village shall require that the school, library or
park district benefiting from such dedications and/or fees conduct a needs
assessment and adopt a plan for acquisition of land and capital facilities
needed to accommodate growth. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-12: NEEDS ASSESSMENT; LAND AND CAPITAL FACILITIES ACQUISITION PLAN:
   A.   A needs assessment shall contain the following information for each
district (school, library, and park):
      1.   A description of the nature and location of existing park library,
and school lands and existing park, library, school, and capital facilities
within each district.
      2.   An identification of the capacity of each school building, library,
or park site within the particular district and of the number of students then
enrolled in each school building.
      3.   A projection of the character and location of new development that
is expected to occur within each district during the succeeding ten (10) year
period. The district may obtain the information necessary to make this
projection from sources such as, but not limited to: municipalities, other
units of government, agencies, and consultants.
      4.   An identification of the amount of park, library, and/or school
lands that will be necessary within each district in order to accommodate the
demands of such projected new development, and an estimate of the public
grounds acquisition costs that will be incurred or have been incurred by each
district in acquiring such lands.
      5.   A general description of each classification of park, library, and/
or school capital facilities (including construction, expansion or enhancement
of any public facilities and the land improvement, design, engineering and
professional costs related thereto) that will be necessary within each district
in order to provide park and/or school capacity for the projected new
development, and an estimate of the capital facilities costs that will be
incurred by each district in constructing such capital facilities.
   B.   Based upon the needs assessment, each district shall provide the
village an acquisition plan for park, library, and/or school lands and capital
facilities. This acquisition plan shall:
      1.   Project for a planning period of at least five (5) years, the need
for park, library, and/or school lands and capital facilities within the
district;
      2.   Set forth a schedule for the acquisition of such lands and
facilities to meet the projected need (which schedule may be conditioned upon
the availability of financing);
      3.   Indicate the size and general location of the needed lands and
facilities;
      4.   Identify the estimated or incurred costs of acquiring such needed
lands and facilities;
      5.   Set forth the anticipated funding sources for the acquisition of
such needed lands and facilities;
      6.   Determine the feasibility of acquiring the needed land and
facilities based upon the district's current financial condition;
      7.   Determine the feasibility of acquiring the needed land and
facilities based upon the district's estimate of the revenues (including,
without limitation, cash in lieu of land contribution required by this chapter)
pursuant to the plan;
      8.   The impact on property taxes in the village assuming the plan is
implemented;
      9.   If the village deems it necessary, it may require an updated needs
assessment and plan for acquisition of land and capital facilities from the
districts annually. The failure to require said assessment update shall not
invalidate the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-13: TIME OF PAYMENT:
All dedications and fees imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable upon
final plat approval. However, the village may agree that payment of fees may be
made at time of building permit issuance in consideration of which the
subdivider or developer shall execute an agreement attached as exhibit B,
incorporated herein by reference and available in the office of the village
clerk, agreeing that the fees payable will be adjusted in accordance with the
requirements of this section and further agreeing that the fees may be expended
for the purposes described in said exhibit B. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
11-7-14: MISCELLANEOUS:
In calculating any cash in lieu of land contribution payable at time of
issuance of building permit as provided in section
11-7-13 of this chapter, the village shall use the fair market value as set
forth in section
11-7-2 of this chapter or any amendment thereto and in effect at the time of
the contribution and building permit issuance. (Ord. 89-04, 4-3-1989)
TITLE 12
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT, FLOOD CONTROL AND EROSION CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
(Rep. by Ord. 2009-02, 3-16-2009)
CHAPTER 2
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
12-2-1: Adoption Of Kane County Ordinance
12-2-1: ADOPTION OF KANE COUNTY ORDINANCE:
   A.   Adoption: The provisions of the Kane County stormwater management
ordinance, adopted by Kane County board on November 14, 2000, revised October
9, 2001, and October 12, 2004, and August 22, 2008, effective November 13,
2008, not less than three (3) copies which have been and are now filed in the
office of the clerk of the village of West Dundee, Illinois, are hereby adopted
in total, with the exception of the special regulations listed below which
supplement and replace the concurrent sections of the Kane County stormwater
management ordinance as the regulations governing any activity that affects
stormwater runoff or involves stormwater management. This chapter and the
amendments noted hereafter shall become effective immediately.
   B.   Amendments: The following are amendments to the Kane County stormwater
management ordinance, adopted in subsection A of this section:
Article 202(b) is deleted in its entirety and the following text inserted:
Minor stormwater systems shall be sized to convey runoff from the tributary
watershed under predevelopment or fully developed conditions, as the case may
be, producing the greatest amount of runoff. The recurrence frequency for
design purposes shall be the 10-year storm event and the duration shall be the
critical duration producing the greatest amount of runoff to the point of
design consideration. The rainfall data shall be from ISWS bulletin 70. Unless
otherwise approved by the director of public works, pipe capacity shall be
provided such that the calculated hydraulic grade line does not exceed the top
of pipe elevation and inlet capacity shall be provided such that depth of
ponding does not exceed 6 inches to facilitate the afore-noted design event. In
the case of a minor stormwater system composed of drainage swales, the
hydraulic grade line shall not exceed the top of swale or the lowest adjacent
foundation grade minus one foot, whichever is lower.
Article 203(b) is deleted in its entirety and the following text inserted:
Absent any applicable watershed plan or interim watershed plan, sufficient
storage shall be provided such that the probability of the post-development
release rate exceeding 0.1 cfs/acre of development shall be less than one
percent (1%) per year and the probability of the post-development release rate
exceeding 0.04 cfs/acre of development shall be less than fifty percent (50%)
per year. Design runoff volumes shall be calculated using event hydrograph
methods. The administrator may specify more restrictive release rates when
downstream conditions warrant. However, storage within gravel beneath permeable
paving and beneath bio-retention facilities is permissible with approval by the
administrator.
Article 203(h)(10) shall be appended to article 203(h) and shall read as
follows:
Paved parking lots may not be utilized to provide any portion of the required
site runoff storage volume.
Article 500(c) is deleted in its entirety and the following text inserted:
   A.   The following schedule of fees is established for the filing and review
of all stormwater permit applications and the inspection of construction or
maintenance activities related to required improvements:
      1.   Filing fee (payable when permit application is filed): $50.00
      2.   Cash deposit - reimbursement for professional services:
   B.   At the time that an applicant files an application for a stormwater
management permit, said applicant shall submit a deposit with the village in
the amount of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2500.00) to reimburse the
village for expenses associated with the review and administration of the
permit application. Such deposit shall be in the form of cash, certified check,
or money order and shall be applied to village staff and professional
consulting services as follows:
      1.   Public recording fees
      2.   Fees for the village attorney's review and negotiations in
connection with the filing, review, and construction of the project
      3.   Fees for consultant's review and consultation in connection with the
filing, review, and construction of the proposed work including meetings and
associated tasks. Consultants may include but are not to be limited to
engineers and wetland specialists.
   C.   Reimbursement for village staff review: One hundred forty percent
(140%) of the hourly rate or prorate salary of each member involved in reviews,
meetings, inspections or any associated tasks relative to a stormwater permit
application. The reimbursement includes administrative overhead expenses
relating to village staff wages and salaries.
   D.   The applicant shall pay all fees within 30 days of invoice by the
village subsequent to performance of said tasks. Any dispute of payment shall
be sent in writing to the administrator within 30 days of invoice by the
village. Failure to respond within the 30 day period shall result in a default
of permit obligation and allow the administrator to revoke the permit.
Article 703.a is deleted in its entirety and the following text inserted:
Any person found guilty of an offense under this ordinance shall pay a civil
fine in an amount of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000. Each calendar
day during which such violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. In addition to the penalties provided in this chapter, the village may
recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, court reporter fees, and other
expenses of litigation by appropriate suit against the person found to have
violated this chapter or the rules, regulations, permits, or orders issued
hereunder.
Article 902 is deleted in its entirety and the following text inserted:
   A.   The following schedule of fees is established for the filing and review
of all stormwater permit variances:
      1.   Filing fee (payable when permit application is filed): $50.00
      2.   Cash deposit - reimbursement for professional services:
   B.   At the time that an applicant files an application for a variance, said
applicant shall submit a deposit with the village in the amount of two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2500.00) to reimburse the village for expenses
associated with the review and administration of the variance application. Any
fees in excess of the deposit are also the responsibility of the applicant.
Such deposit shall be in the form of cash, certified check, or money order and
shall be applied to village staff and professional consulting services as
follows:
      1.   Public recording fees
      2.   Fees for the village attorney's review and negotiations in
connection with the filing, review, and construction of the project
      3.   Fees for consultant's review and consultation in connection with the
filing, review, and construction of the proposed work including meetings and
associated tasks. Consultants may include but are not to be limited to
engineers and wetland specialists.
   C.   Reimbursement for village staff review: One hundred forty percent
(140%) of the hourly rate or prorate salary of each member involved in reviews,
meetings, inspections or any associated tasks relative to a stormwater permit
variance application. The reimbursement includes administrative overhead
expenses relating to village staff wages and salaries.
   D.   The applicant shall pay all fees within 30 days of invoice by the
village subsequent to performance of said tasks. Any dispute of payment shall
be sent in writing to the administrator within 30 days of invoice by the
village. Failure to respond within the 30 day period shall result in a default
of permit obligation and allow the administrator to revoke the permit.
Article 1000(b) responsibility for administration shall be amended by appending
the following sentence and shall read as follows:
The administrator for the village of West Dundee shall be the director of
community development of the village of West Dundee.
Article 1001 duties of director add language to read as follows:
A minimum of 45 days prior to the Kane County board's consideration of a
revision(s) to the Kane County stormwater ordinance, the director shall notify
and provide a copy of said revision(s) to every certified community (the
certified community's stormwater administrator and city/village engineer), and
the proposed date said revision(s) will be presented to the Kane County board's
executive committee. Stormwater administrators or their designees shall be
allowed to present oral or written comments to the Kane County board's
executive committee expressing their comments relating to said stormwater
ordinance revision(s).
Article 1004 oversight committee shall be amended by appending the following
sentence and shall read as follows:
The oversight committee for the village of West Dundee shall be the village
board of the village of West Dundee.
Article 1201(a)(3) is deleted in its entirety and the following inserted
therefore:
An irrevocable letter of credit in favor of the permitting authority or such
other adequate security as the administrator may approve, in an amount equal to
125% of the approved estimated probable cost to complete the construction of
any required stormwater facilities.
Article 1300(a)(1) is deleted in its entirety and the following text inserted:
The cost of otherwise providing the required storage considering land cost
valued according to the use to which it will ultimately be put if not used to
provide the required storage and the cost of making the otherwise required
stormwater management improvements. This cost shall be solely determined by the
village administrator utilizing the services of a qualified MAI real estate
appraiser as to land value and a registered professional engineer as to the
estimated costs of the otherwise required stormwater management improvements.
(Ord. 2009-02, 3-16-2009)
 
