VILLAGE CODE
of
WESTERN SPRINGS, ILLINOIS
1997
Code current through:
Ord. 25-3256, passed 3-27-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Western Springs, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-3256, passed March 27, 2025 and
resolution 15-2337, passed November 23, 2015. Ordinances of the Village adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Village office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORGANIZATION OF VILLAGE
The existence of Western Springs dates from December 12, 1885. On that day the
voters resident within the proposed territory met pursuant to law in the depot
of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company and voted to organize as
a village under the general law. The number of votes cast was 59--34 for and 24
against village organization.
At an election held January 30, 1886, the persons below named were elected
Trustees, to serve until the next general election and until their successors
should be elected and qualified: E.E. Barrett, Thomas C. Hill, Julius O.
Jaehne, Joseph Marshall, William G. Ridley, William R. Wickersham. On February
12, 1886, the Board of Trustees held their first meeting and elected Thomas C.
Hill as President. The president appointed Fred L. Titsworth as Village Clerk.
On February 19, 1886, Joseph Marshall resigned as Trustee.
On April 20, 1886, at a general election, the persons below named were elected
as officers: Trustees, John L. Atwater, Julius O. Jaehne, William G. Ridley,
A.L. Scranton, Charles D. Snow, Benezette Williams; Clerk, Fred L. Titsworth;
Police Magistrate, Thomas C. Hill. On May 12, 1886, the Board of Trustees
elected John L. Atwater as President. It was decided by lot that the respective
terms of office of the newly elected Trustees should be as follows: for one
year, John L. Atwater, Julius O. Jaehne, Charles D. Snow; for two years,
William G. Ridley, A.L. Scranton, Benezette Williams.
FORMER ELECTED TRUSTEES
Years listed below are fiscal years, each beginning on the third Tuesday of
April in the year in question.
1886            1886            1887            1888
(To April 20)   (From April 20)                 
E.E. Barrett    J.O. Jaehne     J.O. Jaehne     J.O. Jaehne
J.O. Jaehne     W.G. Ridley     L.M. Padgett    L.M. Padgett
Joseph Marshall A.L. Scranton   G.T. Thompson   Thomas Penrose
W.G. Ridley     C.D. Snow       W.B. Wickersham J.R. Price
W.B. Wickersham G.T. Thompson   B. Williams     G.T. Thompson
W.B. Wickersham                                
B. Williams                                    
 
 
1889           1890            1891            1892
G. Burrington  G. Burrington   G. Burrington   G. Burrington
F.W. Nichols   F.W. Nichols    Louis Nelson    Luther D. Dana
Thomas Penrose Ethan Philbrick Ethan Philbrick J. Farquharson
J.R. Price     J.R. Price      J.R. Price      James D. Lott
B. Williams    A.L. Scranton   A.L. Scranton   Louis Nelson
Edgar Williams Edgar Williams  B. Williams     B. Williams
 
 
1893             1894          1895          1896
G. Burrington    S.P. Blount   H.L. Cornell  H.L. Cornell
H.L. Cornell     H.L. Cornell  Charles Hoag  E.O. Hart
J. Farquharson   A.W. Macy     A.W. Macy     C. Hoag
James D. Lott    F.W. Nichols  F.W. Nichols  A.W. Macy
George M. Rogers G.T. Thompson H.A. Stocker  F.W. Nichols
B. Williams      B. Williams   G.T. Thompson H.A. Stocker
 
 
1897            1898           1899          1900
G. Burrington   H.C. Adcock    H.C. Adcock   W.T. Bruckner
H.E. Eggleston  G. Burrington  C.B. Jones    S.B. Meredith
J. Farquharson  H.E. Eggleston A.M. Kerr     C.E. Patten
F.W. Nichols    J. Farquharson S.D. Meredith D.N. Roberts
H.A. Stocker    C.B. Jones     D.N. Roberts  J. Wilson
W.B. Wickersham A.M. Kerr      J. Wilson     S. Wilson
 
 
1901          1902          1903             1904
W.T. Bruckner W.T. Bruckner W.T. Bruckner    J.P. Breed
H.S. Parrish  C. Eggleston  C.L. Eggleston   C. Cropp
C.E. Patten   H.S. Parrish  T. J. Hattendorf T.J. Hattendorf
B.N. Roberts  D.N. Roberts  F.W. Nichols     E.A. Jaehne
H.A. Thayer   H.A. Thayer   J. Novotny       F.W. Nichols
S. Wilson     W.O. Washburn W.O. Washburn    J. Novotny
 
 
1905            1906            1907             1908
H. Coleman      H. Coleman      A. Erickson      W.H. Doyle
C. Cropp        A. Erickson     A.C. Hammerspahr A. Erickson
E.A. Jaehne     W.A. Jacobs     W.A. Jacobs      T.A. Ford
R.L. McClelland A.W. Macy       A.W. Macy        S.B. Meredith
J. Novotny      R.L. McClelland S.B. Meredith    W.T. Moody
F.E. Reeve      J. Novotny      H.J. Reeve       H.J. Reeve
 
 
1909          1910          1911           1912
J.A. Comstock J.A. Comstock C.W. Breed     J.A. Comstock
W.H. Doyle    W.H. Doyle    J.A. Comstock  A. Erickson
A. Erickson   A. Erickson   A. Erickson    G.H. Hill
T.A. Ford     George Horner George A. Hill G.W. Morgan
A.A. Heinmann H.A. Parks    G.N. Horner    H.A. Parks
H.J. Reeve    H.J. Reeve    H.A. Parks     J.H. Ridley
 
 
1913          1914        1915         1916
J.A. Comstock A. Erickson A. Erickson  A. Erickson
A. Erickson   G.H. Hill   A.E. Peters  A.E. Peters
G.W. Morgan   G.W. Morgan J.H. Ridley  H.C. Stewart
H.A. Parks    H.A. Parks  J.P. Stewart J.P. Stewart
J.H. Ridley   A.E. Peters P. Stockwell P.K. Stockwell
P. Stockwell  J.H. Ridley H.L. Waters  H.L. Waters
 
 
1917           1918         1919         1920
A. Erickson    A. Erickson  F.G. Carrel  F.G. Carrel
A.E. Peters    A.E. Peters  A. Erickson  J.N. Pierce
H.C. Stewart   J.L. Prest   A.E. Peters  J.L. Prest
J.P. Stewart   H.C. Stewart J.L. Prest   F.E. Reeve
P.K. Stockwell J.P. Stewart H.C. Stewart H.C. Stewart
H.L. Waters    H.L. Waters  J.P. Stewart J.P. Stewart
 
 
1921         1922         1923         1924
W. Bundy     W. Bundy     W. Bundy     W. Bundy
K.G. Knocke  C.E. Curtiss C.E. Curtiss C.N. George
J.N. Pierce  O.J. Dean    O.J. Dean    G.F. Graham
S.L. Porter  K.G. Knocke  K.G. Knocke  K.G. Knocke
F.E. Reeve   S.L. Porter  S.L. Porter  S.L. Porter
H.C. Stewart L.B. Sauer   L.B. Sauer   R.C. Schultz
 
 
1925            1926            1927           1928
Frank F. Abbott Frank F. Abbott N.A. Ford      N.A. Ford
H. Frenzel      H. Frenzel      H. Frenzel     H. Frenzel
C.N. George     C.N. George     C.N. George    W. Hartenstein
G.F. Graham     G.F. Graham     P.F. Mulkey    P.F. Mulkey
Joseph G. Pikas Joseph G. Pikas R.C. Schultz   S.T. Norvall
R.G. Schultz    R.G. Schultz    C.A. Wickstrom C.A. Wickstrom
 
 
1929            1930            1931            1932
J.A. Fitzgerald J.A. Fitzgerald J.C. Blackmore  J.C. Blackmore
N.A. Ford       N.A. Ford       J.A. Fitzgerald J.A. Fitzgerald
W. Hartenstein  W. Hartenstein  W. Hartenstein  W. Hartenstein
S.M. Hull       S.M. Hull       S.M. Hull       S.M. Hull
P.F. Mulkey     P.F. Mulkey     P.F. Mulkey     P.F. Mulkey
S.T. Norvall    J.F. Towell     J.F. Towell     J.F. Towell
 
 
1933           1934           1935            1936
J.C. Blackmore C.J. Anderson  C.J. Anderson   C.J. Anderson
A.W. Goodwin   J.C. Blackmore L.F. Gillan     L.F. Gillan
W. Hartenstein L.F. Gillan    A.W. Goodwin    A.W. Goodwin
P.F. Mulkey    A.W. Goodwin   R.E. Hieronymus R.E. Hieronymus
L.B. Sperry    R.C. Milton    R.M. McNeily    R.M. McNeily
J.F. Towell    L.B. Sperry    R.C. Milton     R.C. Milton
 
 
1937            1938            1939            1940
R.E. Hieronymus R.E. Hieronymus J.H. Cattell    J.H. Cattell
A.C. Jones      A.C. Jones      R.E. Hieronymus R.E. Hieronymus
R.C. Milton     R.C. Milton     A.C. Jones      A.C. Jones
J.A. Schad      J.A. Schad      R.C. Milton     R.C. Milton
K.L. Scott      K.L. Scott      K.L. Scott      K.L. Scott
H.J. Winchester H.J. Winchester H.J. Winchester H.J. Winchester
 
1941             1942             1943             1944
J.H. Cattell     J.H. Cattell     H.A. Anderson    H.A. Anderson
A.L. Dixon       A.L. Dixon       A.L. Dixon       A.L. Dixon
D.F. Farquharson D.F. Farquharson A.C. Embshoff    A.C. Embshoff
H.G. Knowlton    H.G. Knowlton    D.F. Farquharson H.G. Knowlton
C.A. Williams    C.A. Williams    H.G. Knowlton    C.A. Lewis
H.J. Winchester  H.J. Winchester  C.A. Lewis       M.J. Wright
L.E. Osmer                                        
M.J. Wright                                       
 
1945           1946            1947            1948
H.A. Anderson  H.A. Anderson   C.J. Baumrucker C.J. Baumrucker
A.C. Embshoff  C.J. Baumrucker H.V. Clarke     H.V. Clarke
H.C. Goetsch   A.C. Embshoff   J.D. Fitzgerald J.D. Fitzgerald
C.A. Lewis     H.C. Goetsch    H.C. Goetsch    H.C. Goetsch
K.C. McCormick C.A. Lewis      Val Price       Val Price
W.B. Stark     K.C. McCormick  M.J. Wright     M.J. Wright
M.J. Wright    M.J. Wright                     
 
1949            1950            1951           1952
J.A. Andersen   J.A. Andersen   J.A. Andersen  J.A. Andersen
H.V. Clarke     H.V. Clarke     S.A. McMurray  S.A. McMurray
J.D. Fitzgerald J.D. Fitzgerald T.O. Millard   T.O. Millard
Freeman Olsen   Freeman Olsen   Freeman Olsen  Freeman Olsen
Val Price       Val Price       R.A. Snyder    R.A. Snyder
Roland Welborn  Roland Welborn  Roland Welborn H.B. Storm
Roland Welborn                                
 
1953          1954          1955           1956
V.C. Anderson V.C. Anderson V.C. Anderson  V.C. Anderson
W.T. Birch    W.T. Birch    E.A. Armstrong E.A. Armstrong
S.A. McMurray S.A. McMurray H.A. Baldridge H.A. Baldridge
T.O. Millard  T.O. Millard  W.T. Birch     W.T. Birch
W.M. Pilster  W.M. Pilster  C.O. Nichols   C.O. Nichols
H.B. Storm    R.K. Stolz    A.M. Polek     A.M. Polek
H.B. Storm    R.K. Stolz                   
 
1957           1958           1959         1960
E.A. Armstrong E.A. Armstrong E.E. Bollnow E.E. Bollnow
E.E. Bollnow   E.E. Bollnow   J.W. Dennis  J.W. Dennis
R.J. Lavidge   J.R. Duggr     L.O. Edlund  L.O. Edlund
C.O. Nichols   R.J. Lavidge   R.J. Lavidge R.J. Lavidge
A.M. Polek     C.O. Nichols   R.W. Milow   R.W. Milow
C.W. Roth      A.M. Polek     C.W. Roth    C.W. Roth
C.W. Roth                                 
 
 
1961                1962               1963              1964
F.T. Corneliussen   F.T. Corneliussen  F.T. Corneliussen F.T. Corneliussen
J.M. Cunningham     J.M. Cunningham    J.M. Cunningham   J.M. Cunningham
J.W. Dennis         J.W. Dennis        F.C. Everitt      F.C. Everitt
L.O. Edlund         F.C. Everitt       F.L. Faulkner     F.L. Faulkner
T.H. Krumwiede, Jr. T.H. Krumwiede Jr. T.H. Krumwiede    T.H. Krumwiede
R.W. Milow          R.W. Milow         F.B. Makens       F.B. Makens
 
 
1965          1966          1967          1969
D.H. Beal     D.H. Beal     D.H. Beal     H.A. Graening
R.F. Doner    F.C. Everitt  G.E. Jackson  A.H. Jens
F.C. Everitt  F.L. Faulkner R.W. McNeily  L.A. Landefeld
F.L. Faulkner G.E. Jackson  A.B. Neely    R.R. Snyder
F.B. Makens   F.B. Makens   R.P. Stead    R.P. Stead
A.B. Neely    A.B. Neely    H.H. Williams H.H. Williams
 
 
1971           1973            1975            1977
H.A. Graening  N.C. Myers      N.C. Myers      J.P. Habicht
A.H. Jens      W.R. Schack     F.F. Pipal      J.M. Jasica
L.A. Landefeld R.R. Snyder     W.R. Schack     F.F. Pipal
R.R. Snyder    H.E. Tiefenthal H.E. Tiefenthal R.G. Vogele
J.S. Vollmer   J.S. Vollmer    G.O. Westerhoff G.O. Westerhoff
C.H. Wickman   C.H. Wickman    T.P. Woerner    T.P. Woerner
 
 
1979          1981          1982          1983
W.A. Benjamin T.W. Allen    T.W. Allen    T.W. Allen
E.L. Chott    W.A. Benjamin A.S. Brown    J.L. Caldeira
J.P. Habicht  J.L. Caldeira J.L. Caldeira E.B. Driscoll
J.M. Jasica   E.L. Chott    E.L. Chott    D.A. Kennedy
G.L. Nelson   D.A. Kennedy  D.A. Kennedy  J.M. Martin
R.G. Vogele   G.L. Nelson   G.L. Nelson   S.L. Torrey
 
 
1985          1987          1989          1991
E.B. Driscoll N.F. Esposito D.W. Lawrence L. Dick Buell
N.F. Esposito D.W. Lawrence S. Milano     J. Kravcik
J.H. Love     J.H. Love     A.H. Perkins  S. Milano
J.M. Martin   J.M. Reynolds J.M. Reynolds A. Perkins
S.L. Torrey   C.S. Wilson   J.M. Tilden   K. Taylor
C.S. Wilson   E.A. Zeimetz  E.A. Zeimetz  J. Tilden
 
 
1993          1995         1997         1999
R. Brunot     R. Brunot    G. Leenheers H. Blackman
L. Dick Buell J. Devona    M. Mullen    H. Kannry
J. Devona     M. Mullen    P. Pelizzari G. Leenheers
J. Kravcik    V. Price     R. Sherwood  J. McMurray
V. Price      R. Sherwood  D. Spetter   P. Pelizzari
K. Taylor     J. Vogelzang J. Vogelzang D. Spetter
 
 
2001         2003         2005         2007
H. Blackman  R. Bures     R. Bures     M. Buell
L. DenBesten L. DenBesten R. Hartigan  J. Dahl
T. Gaines    T. Gaines    R. Hendrick  R. Hendrick
K. Heerwagen R. Hartigan  A.M. Hickey  J. Madell
H. Kannry    K. Heerwagen J. Madell    J. Maragos
J. McMurray  A.M. Hickey  W. Rodeghier W. Rodeghier
 
 
2009       2011       2013         2015
M. Buell   S. Glowiak A. Gallagher B. Allen
J. Dahl    S. Hansen  S. Glowiak   A. Gallagher
S. Glowiak J. Horvath S. Hansen    S. Glowiak
J. Horvath D. Lyons   J. Horvath   S. Hansen
D. Lyons   E. Tymick  E. Tymick    J. Horvath
J. Maragos P. Word    P. Word      E. Tymick
 
 
2017          2019          2020       2021       2023
B. Allen      N. Chen       N. Chen    N. Chen    A. Avakian
S. Hansen     A. Fink       A. Fink    A. Fink    N. Chen
H. Rudolph    J. John       J. John    J. John    A. Fink
W. Siffermann H. Rudolph    S. Lewis   S. Lewis   S. Lewis
E. Tymick     W. Siffermann H. Rudolph H. Rudolph P. Nawrocki
J. Tyrrell    J. Tyrrell    J. Tyrrell J. Tyrrell J. Tyrrell
 
2024            
A. Avakian      
N. Chen         
A. Fink         
S. Lewis        
P. Nawrocki     
J. Tyrrell      
H. Rudolph      
E. Tymick       
 
VILLAGE OFFICERS
The following is a list of Village officials. The year represents the
respective fiscal year of the Village.
VILLAGE PRESIDENTS
Thomas C. Hill      1886
John L. Atwater      1886
William G. Ridley      1887
Thomas C. Hill      1888
A.D. Titsworth      1889-1891
William B. Wickersham      1891-1894
Ethan Philbrick      1894
W.B. Wickersham      1895
Sylvestor P. Blount      1896
Benezette Williams      1897-1898
F.H. Warner      1899-1900
James Wilson      1901
Horace A. Stocker      1902-1905
H.C. Adock      1905-1915
Charles A. Chapman      1915-1921
Henry J. Reeve      1921-1925
J. Norman Pierce      1925-1927
Frank F. Abbott      1927-1929
Charles A. Wickerstrom      1929-1933
Hubert R. Chapin      1933-1935
Paul F. Mulkey      1935-1937
Robert M. McNeily      1937-1943
D. Francis Farquharson      1943-1946
Harvey A. Anderson      1946
Rex E. Hieronymus      1947-1949
Walter Hartenstein      1949-1953
Howard G. Knowlton      1953-1961
Vernon C. Anderson      1961
L. Orville Edlund      1961-1969
Robert W. McNeily      1969-1973
Robert J. Lavidge      1973-1977
Arther H. Jens      1977-1981
Louis F. Schauer      1981-1985
Theodore P. Woerner      1985-1989
Edmund B. Driscoll      1989-1993
David W. Lawrence      1993-1997
Saranne Milano      1997-2001
John W. Kravcik      2001-2005
John J. Lynch      2005-2009
William T. Rodeghier      2009-2017
Alice F. Gallagher      2017-2023
Heidi Rudolph   2023-now
 
VILLAGE CLERKS
Fred L. Titsworth      1886-1887
E.J. Hamel      1888-1889
Chauncey H. Smity      1890-1893
F.W. Perry      1894
William T. Bruckner      1895
August Johnson      1896
C.H. Jackson      1897-1898
R. McClelland      1899
C.W. Breed      1900-1902
W. Butler      1903
W.F. Niemann      1904-1909
A.W. Macy      1910-1919
R.E. Turner      1919
J.H. Ridley      1920
John T. Clayton      1920-1923
F.J. Kriz      1924-1929
A.W. Anderson      1930-1931
George G. Herman      1932-1934
M.N. Linden      1935-1944
William E. Stiegelmeier      1945-1947
Grace E. Meyer      1947-1950
Helen B. Harman      1951-1952
Maude Hollister      1952-1968
F.C. Everitt      1969-1987
Jeanine M. Jasica      1987-2017
Bridget McMahon Fitzgerald      2017-2019
James Horvath      2019-2021
Edward Tymick   2021-now
 
VILLAGE MANAGERS
C.K. Creelman      1948-1951
George E. Smity      1952-1956
Richard V. Brown      1956-1962
Robert L. Hegel      1962-1966
Orlo S. Willoughby      1966-1976
Paul C. Nicholson      1976-1993
Martin J. Bourke      1993-2000
Patrick R. Higgins      2000-2017
Ingrid S. Velkme      2017-2021
Ellen J. Baer         2021-now
 
VILLAGE ATTORNEYS
Russell B. James      1922-1937
H. Williams Hanmer      1937-1961
Charles L. Michod      1961-1971
Louis F. Schauer      1971-1981
Robert R. Ekroth      1981-1998
Klein, Thorpe & Jenkins      1998-now
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. ______
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE VILLAGE CODE OF WESTERN SPRINGS, ILLINOIS
   BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Western Springs, Illinois, an Illinois Municipal Corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the Village
Code of the Village of Western Springs, Illinois, prepared by Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general
nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction
of the governing body of the Village, shall be accepted in all courts without
question as the Official Code and Law of the Village as enacted by the
President and Board of Trustees.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official Village Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies
of which shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk, certified as
to correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said
office is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official
Village Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said Official Village Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the Village Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
Official Village Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the President and Board
of Trustees.
INTRODUCED: ________________________
PASSED: _____________________________
APPROVED: __________________________
President
ATTEST:
___________________
Village Clerk
RECORDED: ________
PUBLISHED: ________
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Copies Of Code
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official Code of the Village.
This Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the WESTERN SPRINGS
VILLAGE CODE and it is hereby published by authority of the President and Board
of Trustees and shall be kept up to date as provided in Section
1-1-3. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and title heading, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Village Code by title in any legal document. (1997 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1997 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Procedure: Any ordinance amending the Village Code shall set forth the
title, chapter and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and
this shall constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement
pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this
Village Code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be
immediately forwarded to the codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be
prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this Village Code.
Each such replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted
in each individual copy of the Village Code.
   B.   Scope: Any additions or amendments to this Code, when passed in such
form as to indicate the intention of the President and Board of Trustees to
make the same a part of this Code, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this
Code so that a reference to the Municipal Code of Western Springs shall be
understood to include them.
   C.   Record Of Amendments: The Village Clerk shall keep a separate book
containing every amendment or addition passed to this Code, with a reference on
each copy of such amendment or addition as to the place in the record of
ordinances where the original ordinance may be found. These records shall be
kept in addition to the record of ordinances which the Clerk is required to
keep by statute. (1997 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Board. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of the Village Code shall
make every effort to maintain said Code in an up-to-date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the office of the Clerk when directed to do so by order of the
Village Board. (1997 Code)
1-1-5: COPIES OF CODE:
   A.   Distribution Of Copies: All of the printed copies of this Code
belonging to the Village shall be deposited with the Clerk. He shall deliver
one copy to such persons as the Clerk deems appropriate.
   B.   Copies To Other Governmental Bodies: The President and Board of
Trustees shall have the power to extend or reciprocate courtesies of other
municipalities by presenting them with a copy of this Code, bound at the
expense of the Village, as to them seems suitable. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; site specific zoning ordinances and all special ordinances. (1997
Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the Village Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this Village Code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1997 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Penalties Immune To Repeal: No new ordinance shall be construed or held
to repeal a former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly
repealed or not, as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or
as to any act done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any
right accrued or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way
whatsoever to affect any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim
arising before the new ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings
thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in force at the time of such
proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be
mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by
consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new
ordinance takes effect.
   B.   Scope: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express
words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new
provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Limitations: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the Village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances
contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a
new enactment of the same provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue,
or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving
any right of the Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at
the time of the adoption of this Village Code. (1997 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word used in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. Whenever a particular gender is
referred to in this code, several matters, parties or persons and the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the village has
been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the village's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
   C.   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
this code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent of the
president and board of trustees may be fully carried out. (1997 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meanings
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the board of trustees of the village.
CODE: The municipal code of Western Springs, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
CODE OFFICER OR CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any person authorized by applicable
law or ordinance to enforce the provisions of this code or any applicable laws,
regulations or ordinances, including, but not limited to, the issuance of
citations, permits, tickets, notices, warnings, code violation notices and/or
stop work orders.
COUNTY: The county of Cook, state of Illinois.
DAYS: When used in this code, the term "day", or its plural, shall mean
calendar day(s). Unless otherwise designated as a weekday or a business day,
the reference to the completion or performance of any act within a certain
number of days shall mean consecutive calendar days.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
village of Western Springs".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year for the village shall begin on April 1 of each
year and end on March 31 of the following year 1 .
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the village
of Western Springs".
OFFICIAL TIME: The official time within the village for the transaction of all
village business shall be the official time as is now or may hereafter be
established from time to time for the city of Chicago, Illinois. All legal or
official proceedings of the board of trustees and all official business of the
village shall be regulated as to time in accordance with the provisions of this
definition; and when, by ordinance, resolution or action of any officer or
board of the village an act must be performed at or within a prescribed time,
it shall be performed according to the official time as herein prescribed. All
clocks or other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other premises
maintained at the expense of the village shall be set and run according to the
official time provided in this section.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
SHALL, MAY: The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
TIME CALCULATION 2 : The time to complete or perform any act required by this
code or by law shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the
last, unless the last day is a Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or
fixed in any law now or hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall
also be excluded. If the day following a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also
a holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then the following day shall also be
excluded.
VILLAGE: The village of Western Springs, county of Cook, state of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The president of the village of Western Springs, president
of the board of trustees.
WHOLESALER AND RETAILER: In all cases where the words "wholesaler" or
"wholesale dealer" are used in this code, unless otherwise specifically
defined, they shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise,
articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of
resale, as distinguished from a retail dealer who sells in smaller quantities
direct to the consumer.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1978 Code §§
1-3-2,
1-5-11; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 15-2803, 5-18-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. As per ordinance 96-1980, effective January 1, 1998, the fiscal year for
  the village shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31 of each year.
2 1. 5 ILCS 70/1.11.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this Village
Code, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for any offense 1 . (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application: The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable
to every section of this Village Code the same as though it were a part of each
and every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section
of this Village Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or
where any action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to
be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed
or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this Village
Code.
   B.   Choice Of Penalty: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this Village Code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Scope: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Village Code and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this Chapter shall apply. (1997 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Village Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Constitution; Election; Compensation
1-5-2: Functions
1-5-3: President; Powers; Vote
1-5-4: President Pro Tem
1-5-5: Meetings; Quorum
1-5-6: Rules, Order Of Business And Procedure
1-5-7: Committees
1-5-8: Ordinances
1-5-9: Amendment, Repeal Or Suspension Of Rules
1-5-10: Robert's Rules Of Order Govern
1-5-11: Omnibus Vote
1-5-1: CONSTITUTION; ELECTION; COMPENSATION:
The board of trustees shall consist of the president and six (6) trustees, who
shall be elected as provided by law and who shall hold office for a term of
four (4) years each and until their respective successors are elected and have
qualified. They shall serve without compensation. (1978 Code §
1-5-1; amd. 1997 Code)
1-5-2: FUNCTIONS:
The board of trustees shall constitute the legislative body of the village
government and shall have the powers and perform the duties provided by law and
ordinance. (1978 Code §
1-5-2)
1-5-3: PRESIDENT; POWERS; VOTE:
The president shall preside at all meetings of the board of trustees. He shall
not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion except: a) where the vote of
the trustees has resulted in a tie, b) where one-half (1/2) of the trustees
elected have voted in favor of an ordinance, resolution or motion even though
there is no tie vote, in which case he shall vote, or c) where a vote greater
than a majority of the corporate authorities is required by this code to adopt
an ordinance, resolution or motion. An acting president or president pro tem
shall be entitled to his vote as trustee but in such case shall not have an
additional vote in his capacity as acting president or president pro tem. (1978
Code §
1-5-3; amd. 1997 Code)
1-5-4: PRESIDENT PRO TEM:
If a temporary absence or disability of the president incapacitates him from
the performance of his duties but does not create a vacancy in the office, the
board of trustees shall elect one of its members to act as president pro tem.
The president pro tem, during such absence or disability of the president,
shall have all rights and powers and perform the duties of the president. (1978
Code §
1-5-4)
1-5-5: MEETINGS; QUORUM:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Prior to January 1 of each calendar year, the board
of trustees shall approve by resolution a schedule of all of their regular
meetings for such calendar year, which lists the dates, times and places of
such meetings, and shall make the schedule available to the public and any new
medium that has filed an annual request for notice of meetings in accordance
with the requirements of the open meetings act 1 , as amended. If a permanent
change is desired in the previously approved schedule of regular meeting dates,
the board of trustees shall first approve by resolution the change to the
regular meeting dates, and thereafter, the village clerk shall publish a notice
of such change at least ten (10) days prior to the first of such meetings in a
newspaper of general circulation within the village as required by the open
meetings act.
Any regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or reconvened by a motion
approved by the board of trustees. In addition, any regular meeting may be
canceled or rescheduled by the village clerk, upon direction from the village
president or three (3) or more trustees, by posting a notice of said
cancellation or a notice containing the date, time and place of the rescheduled
meeting in the village hall and at the location where the meeting was to take
place prior to the commencement of said meeting. The village shall comply with
the notice and posting requirements of the open meetings act prior to
conducting any rescheduled or reconvened regular meeting. (Ord. 01-2189, 12-17-
2001)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be held at any time on call for
the same by the president or any three (3) or more trustees; such call shall be
in writing, duly signed, and shall be presented to the clerk, who shall proceed
immediately to prepare notices of the same, and shall cause them to be served
on the president and members of the board of trustees in the usual manner at
least forty eight (48) hours before the time of meeting; such notices shall
describe in brief the nature or object of the call. At every special meeting,
the call for the same shall be read and afterwards filed by the clerk; and no
business other than that proposed by the call shall be in order at such
meeting. (1978 Code §
1-5-5; amd. 1997 Code)
   C.   Meetings Open To Public: All regular or special meetings of the village
board shall be open to the public. (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 01-2189, 12-17-2001)
   D.   Quorum: Four (4) members of the board of trustees shall constitute a
quorum to do business. (1978 Code §
1-5-5; amd. 1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1-5-6: RULES, ORDER OF BUSINESS AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Order Of Business: The following order of business shall be followed in
all meetings of the board unless suspended by unanimous consent of the members
present. At the hour selected for the meeting, the clerk or someone appointed
to fill his place, shall proceed to call the roll of members, mark the
absentees and announce whether a quorum is present, the board shall be called
to order, the president taking the chair if present, and the board appointing a
temporary chairman, if he should be absent. If a quorum does not appear, the
board shall not thereby stand adjourned unless by a vote of the members
present. When a quorum is present, the board shall then proceed to the business
before it, which shall be conducted in the following order:
      1.   Reading of minutes of proceedings of the last preceding meeting or
meetings; approval of the same as read or as amended, if amendment is made,
unless reading is dispensed with on proper motion.
      2.   Public comment.
      3.   Reports from standing committees.
      4.   Reports from special committees.
      5.   Presentation of petitions, communications, resolutions and
ordinances.
      6.   Unfinished business.
      7.   New business.
   B.   Order In Boardroom; Priority On Points Of Order: The presiding officer
shall preserve order and decorum and may speak on points of order in preference
to other members, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal
to the village board. In case of appeal no member shall speak more than once
without the unanimous consent of the board.
   C.   Decorum Of Members: While the presiding officer is putting the
question, or while business is being transacted, no member shall walk across or
out of the boardroom except by consent of the board.
   D.   Addressing Board Meetings: No person not a member of the board of
trustees shall address the board without the consent of a majority of the
members present.
   E.   Maintaining Order In Boardroom: In case of any disturbance or
disorderly conduct, the presiding officer shall have the power to require the
room to be cleared, if necessary.
   F.   Executive Session: The board may at any time, by the affirmative vote
of two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees present, resolve itself into executive
session, at which session all but members of the board and the village clerk
may be excluded, except if the clerk is the subject matter of the executive
session and his or her presence creates a conflict of interest.
   G.   Communications By Members: When a member wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution or other original matter, he shall
first obtain recognition by the presiding officer, and shall briefly state its
nature, before presenting the same.
   H.   Limitation On Debate: No member, without leave of the board, shall
speak more than once upon the same subject, until every member desiring to
speak shall have spoken, and no member shall speak longer than five (5) minutes
at any time except by consent of the board.
   I.   Conduct Of Members During Debate: While a member is speaking, no member
shall hold any private discourse.
   J.   Voting Mandatory Unless Excused: Every member who shall be present when
a question is stated from the chair shall vote thereon unless excused by the
board or unless he is directly interested in the question, in which case he
shall not vote.
   K.   Special Order, How Made: Any matter before the board may be set down as
a special order of business at a certain time if two-thirds (2/3) of the
trustees present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   L.   Motions; Seconding; Reduction To Writing: No motion shall be debated
unless it is seconded. When a motion is seconded it shall be stated by the
presiding officer before debate, and upon the affirmative vote of the board of
trustees, any such motion shall be reduced to writing by the proposer and the
proposer of the motion shall be entitled to the floor.
   M.   Approval Of Minutes: The board and its standing committees shall
approve minutes of their open meetings within thirty (30) days after that
meeting, or at the second subsequent regular meeting thereafter, whichever is
later.
   N.   Public Comment Participation Guidelines At Meetings: See guidelines set
forth at section
1-21-3, "Public Comment Participation Guidelines At Public Meetings", of this
title. (Ord. 11-2613, 1-24-2011)
1-5-7: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Standing Committees: Standing committees shall be appointed by the
president from the members of the board of trustees, by and with the advice and
consent of the board at or before the second regular meeting after a municipal
election, or as soon thereafter as may be practicable. Vacancies, if any occur,
shall be filled in the same manner. Each committee shall consist of two (2)
members of the board of trustees and the president, who shall, ex officio, be a
member of each committee. One member shall be designated by the president as
chairman. There shall be six (6) standing committees as follows:
General government committee
Finance committee
Public works and water committee
Properties and recreation committee
Public safety and health committee
Planning and zoning committee
   B.   Standing Committee Responsibilities: Standing committees shall be
responsible to the village board as follows:
      1.   General Government Committee: This committee shall advise on policy
matters pending before the village board related to the general management of
the village, including legal services, risk management, cable television,
refuse rates, general personnel policies, intergovernmental relations, and
other matters generally related to the village manager's office.
      2.   Finance Committee: This committee shall advise on policy matters
pending before the village board related to the financial and data processing
management of the village, including corporate plan and operating budget,
accounting, cash management, data processing, and financial auditing and
reporting.
      3.   Public Works And Water Committee: This committee shall advise on
policy matters pending before the village board related to the general
management of certain of the municipal services departments of the village,
including streets, sewerage systems, water production, distribution, treatment
and storage, and related equipment and vehicles.
      4.   Properties And Recreation Committee: This committee shall advise on
policy matters pending before the village board related to the general
management of certain of the municipal services departments of the village,
including buildings and grounds, forestry, commuter facilities, recreation, and
the Western Springs Grand Avenue Community Center. (Ord. 87-1724, 1-26-1987;
amd. 1997 Code)
      5.   Public Safety And Health Committee: This committee shall advise on
policy matters pending before the village board related to the general
management of the law enforcement services department, the fire and
inspectional services department and the emergency management agency. (Ord. 87-
1724, 1-26-1987; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
      6.   Planning And Zoning Committee: This committee shall advise on policy
matters that were pending before the village board related to land use
planning, zoning, transportation systems, and other matters that were referred
to the plan commission and the board of zoning appeals. (Ord. 87-1724, 1-26-
1987; amd. 1997 Code)
1-5-8: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Readings: All proposed ordinances or amendments thereto, before being
presented to the board, shall be reduced to writing and handed to the clerk who
shall read them aloud unless otherwise ordered by the board.
   B.   Vote Required; Yeas And Nays; Record:
      1.   Vote Required: The concurrence of a majority of all members of the
board of trustees shall be required for the passage of all ordinances for
whatever purpose and of any resolution or motion: a) to create any liability
against the village or b) for the expenditure or appropriation of its money.
Depending on statutory provisions, the concurrence of a majority, two-thirds
(2/3) or three-fourths (3/4) of all members elected to the board of trustees,
excluding the president, shall be required for the passage of any ordinance,
resolution or motion for the sale of village personal and real property.
      2.   Voting Powers Of President: Voting powers of the president shall be
as provided in section
1-5-3 of this chapter.
      3.   Yeas And Nays: The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of
the passage of the above described ordinances, resolutions or motions and shall
be recorded in the journal of the board of trustees. If any member of the board
so requests, the yeas and nays shall also be taken and recorded upon the
passage of any resolution or ordinance.
   C.   Veto: The president shall have the right to veto any ordinance or
motion passed by the board of trustees. The trustees, however, by vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of all members elected, excluding the president, may pass such
ordinance, resolution or motion over the president's veto in the manner
provided by this chapter. Such vote shall be by yeas and nays. (Ord. 93-1865,
6-14-1993; amd. 1997 Code)
   D.   Publication; Effective Date: All ordinances imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment or forfeiture, or making any appropriation, shall be published: 1)
by printing in book or pamphlet form published by authority of the president
and board of trustees, or 2) by publication at least once, within ten (10) days
after passage, in a newspaper of general circulation in the village. No such
ordinance shall take effect until ten (10) days after it is so published.
However, ordinances establishing rules and regulations for the construction of
buildings or any part thereof, where such rules and regulations have been
previously printed in book or pamphlet form, may by their terms provide for the
adoption of such rules and regulations or portions thereof by reference thereto
without further printing or publication. All other ordinances, resolutions and
motions shall take effect upon their passing unless they otherwise provide.
(1997 Code)
1-5-9: AMENDMENT, REPEAL OR SUSPENSION OF RULES:
The rules enumerated in this chapter may be amended or repealed at any regular
or special meeting of the board of trustees; provided, however, that written
notice of such amendments or motions for repeal shall have been presented to
the board of trustees at a prior meeting of the board. These rules may be
temporarily suspended at any meeting by vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members
present. (1978 Code § 1-5-9)
1-5-10: ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER GOVERN:
The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in "Robert's Rules Of Order",
revised edition, shall govern the board in all cases to which they are
applicable, and in which they are not inconsistent with the standing rules of
the board. (1978 Code § 1-5-10)
1-5-11: OMNIBUS VOTE:
In addition to the voting requirements set forth above, the president and board
of trustees at any meeting may, by unanimous consent, agree to take a single
vote, by a yeas and nays, on several questions of any two (2) or more of
designated ordinances, orders, resolutions or motions placed together for
voting purposes in and under the designation, "omnibus vote", and in such
event, the village clerk may enter the words "omnibus vote" in the journal in
each case in lieu of entering the names of the president and village trustees
voting aye and those voting nay on the passage of each of the designated
ordinances, orders, resolutions and motions included in such omnibus group. The
taking of such single or omnibus vote and such entries of the words "omnibus
vote" in the journal shall be a sufficient compliance of the requirements of
this section to all intents and purposes and with like effect as if the vote in
each case had been taken separately by yeas and nays on the question of the
passage of each ordinance, order, resolution and motion included in such
omnibus vote, and separately recorded in the journal. Likewise, the yeas and
nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage of any other resolution or
motion at the request of any trustee and shall be recorded in the journal.
(1997 Code)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-6-1: Elections; Term Of Office
1-6-2: Bond; Oath
1-6-3: Powers And Duties
1-6-4: Commissions; Licenses; Permits; Bonds
1-6-5: Deputy Village President; Line Of Succession
1-6-6: Emergency Powers
1-6-1: ELECTIONS; TERM OF OFFICE:
The village president shall be elected as provided by law, for the term of four
(4) years. (Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-1982)
1-6-2: BOND; OATH:
The president, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall take the
oath and shall furnish bond, as provided in section
1-8-5 of this title, in the sum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00). (Ord.
82-1615, 2-16-1982)
1-6-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The president shall be the official head of the village and shall have all
powers and perform all duties assigned to his office by statute or by
ordinance. He shall be president of the board of trustees. (Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-
1982; amd. 1997 Code)
1-6-4: COMMISSIONS; LICENSES; PERMITS; BONDS:
The president shall sign all commissions, licenses and permits granted by the
authority of the board of trustees. He shall grant and sign all licenses and
may revoke the said licenses, except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance,
subject to the approval of the board of trustees. Except where expressly
otherwise provided, he shall approve all surety bonds required by this code.
(Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-1982)
1-6-5: DEPUTY VILLAGE PRESIDENT; LINE OF SUCCESSION:
Pursuant to the emergency interim executive succession act, 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 275/1 et seq., as amended, during an attack on the United States or an
emergency or disaster within the village where the village president cannot act
due to illness, absence from the village or other reason, the duties of his
office shall be performed by an appointive officer of the village designated as
the deputy village president. The office of deputy village president shall be
held by the chairperson of the general government committee. Where the village
president or the deputy village president is unable to perform the duties of
the office, then the below line of succession shall be followed:
   A.   Village president.
   B.   Deputy village president (chair of general government committee).
   C.   Village manager.
   D.   Deputy village manager.
   E.   Director of fire and emergency medical services.
   F.   Director of law enforcement services.
   G.   Director of municipal services.
   H.   Line of succession within the department of law enforcement (if
necessary). (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-6-6: EMERGENCY POWERS:
   A.   The Village President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Western
Springs ("corporate authorities") authorize the Village President to render a
declaration of a state of emergency within the Village based on the following
findings and supporting facts:
      1.   Any type of emergency, natural disaster or catastrophe which will
likely cause damage, injury, losses, hardship or suffering to the community or
its residents, which can be construed broadly to include disease epidemics and
other public health emergencies, is imminent or has occurred; and
      2.   The emergency is severe enough to require the declaration of
emergency in order to supplement local resources in preventing loss of life or
injury, alleviating damages, loss, hardship or suffering or to necessitate
measures to be taken, including the identification of any applicable
procedures, rules or regulations that will be waived or suspended, during the
emergency.
   B.   The exercise of these powers shall be based upon a statement, signed
under oath by the Village President, finding that the standards herein which
form the basis for such a declaration have been met, along with those facts
which substantiate such a finding and declaring that a state of emergency
exists.
   C.   This written declaration shall be filed with the Village Clerk as soon
as practicable.
   D.   Based on the nature of the danger to the public health or safety as set
forth in the Village President's declaration of emergency, the corporate
authorities authorize:
      1.   The Village President to exercise, by executive order, such powers
of the corporate authorities as may be reasonably necessary to respond to the
emergency; and
      2.   The Village Manager or the Village Purchasing Agent, or their
designees, to let contracts to the extent necessary to resolve such emergency
upon declaration, without public advertisement.
   E.   Any state of emergency declared pursuant to this authority shall expire
no later than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the corporate
authorities after the state of emergency has been declared in accordance with
Section 11-1-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-1-6); however, if
the state of emergency has not been resolved as of commencement of the first
regular meeting of the corporate authorities after the state of emergency has
been declared, the authorizations set forth above remain in full force and
effect without further action by the Village President or corporate authorities
until such state of emergency has been resolved as declared in writing by the
Village President or until the authorizations are withdrawn by passage of an
ordinance by an affirmative majority vote the corporate authorities at a public
meeting.
   F.   A declaration of emergency pursuant to this authority may not suspend
in any way the rights of residents of the Village under the Illinois
Constitution or the United States Constitution. (Ord. 20-3001, 3-16-2020)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election; Term
1-7-2: Bond; Oath
1-7-3: Vacancy
1-7-4: Powers And Duties
1-7-5: Compensation
1-7-6: Deputy Clerk
1-7-1: ELECTION; TERM:
The village clerk shall be elected, as provided by law, for the term of four
(4) years. (1978 Code §
1-8-1)
1-7-2: BOND; OATH:
The clerk, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall take the oath
and execute his bond, as provided in section
1-8-5 of this title, in the sum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00). (1978
Code §
1-8-2; amd. 1997 Code)
1-7-3: VACANCY:
If the office of the village clerk shall become vacant for any reason, the
president and board of trustees, voting jointly, shall appoint a clerk to serve
until the next regular village election. (1978 Code §
1-8-3)
1-7-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The village clerk shall:
   A.   Communications:
      1.   Communications To Board: Receive all communications addressed to the
board of trustees and present the same at the meeting of the board next
succeeding their receipt by him, unless otherwise ordered by the board of
trustees. (1978 Code §
1-8-4; amd. 1997 Code)
      2.   Communications From Board: Without delay, deliver to the officers of
the village and to all committees of the board of trustees all resolutions and
communications referred to such officers or committees by the board. (1978 Code
§
1-8-4)
   B.   Notice Of Meetings: Issue notices to the members of the village board
when directed by the president or by that body and, when directed by the
chairman thereof, to all persons whose attendance will be required before any
committee, and also issue notices of special meetings of the board of trustees.
(1978 Code §
1-8-5)
   C.   Attendance At Meetings; Minutes And Records Kept: Attend all meetings
of the president and board of trustees, including executive sessions, and keep
a full record of the meeting minutes of the proceedings in the journal, except
if the clerk is the subject matter of the executive session and his or her
presence creates a conflict of interest. (Ord. 11-2613, 1-24-2011)
   D.   Ordinances:
      1.   Transmittal: Without delay, deliver to the president all ordinances
or resolutions passed by the board of trustees which may require approval or
other action by the president, together with all supporting papers.
      2.   Publication: Within ten (10) days after they are passed, cause all
ordinances of the village imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment or
forfeiture, or making any appropriation, to be published as provided by
statute.
      3.   Record: Record, in a book to be kept for that purpose, all
ordinances passed by the president and the board of trustees; at the foot of
the record of each ordinance so recorded he shall make a memorandum of the date
of the passage, approval, and of publication, if any, of such ordinances, which
record and memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie
evidence of the passage and legal publication of such ordinance for all
purposes whatsoever. (1978 Code §
1-8-6)
      4.   Tax Levy: On or before the last Tuesday in December in each year,
file with the county clerk of Cook County, state of Illinois, a certified copy
of the tax levy ordinance in which the total amount of appropriations for all
public proposes of the village for that year is levied and assessed. (1978 Code
§
1-8-6; amd. 1997 Code)
   E.   Notification Of Election Or Appointment: Within five (5) days after the
result of any election is declared or appointment made, notify all persons
elected or appointed to any village office of their election or appointment.
(1978 Code §
1-8-7)
   F.   Licenses: Issue, sign and attest, under the corporate seal of the
village, all licenses granted by the president and the board of trustees, and
deliver them to the licensees. He shall keep a full record of all licenses
granted, transferred or revoked by the president and board of trustees, or
other village authority, with the date that the same were granted, transferred
or revoked (and, if revoked, the cause therefor) with the serial numbers
thereof and the full names and residences of the applicants for such licenses,
in a book to be kept by him for that purpose, and, where bonds are required,
the names of the bondsmen or sureties. (1978 Code §
1-8-8; amd. 1997 Code)
   G.   Office; Seal; Records: Keep his office at the place designated by the
president and board of trustees; keep the seal of the village and affix the
same to all papers requiring the corporate seal; receive, mark and properly
file all papers coming to his office belonging to the village; prepare and
issue copies, certified under the village seal, of the records or papers of the
village; and execute such orders as he may receive from the president and board
of trustees. (1978 Code § 1-8-10)
   H.   General Duties: In addition to those enumerated in this chapter,
perform all duties imposed on him by statute or ordinance, and such other and
further duties as may from time to time be required of him by the board of
trustees. (1978 Code § 1-8-11)
1-7-5: COMPENSATION:
The village clerk shall receive as compensation for his services as such
officer during his respective term of office and until his respective successor
shall have been elected and shall have qualified or until the term of office of
such officer shall terminate by removal or otherwise the following amount per
annum, two thousand two hundred ninety three dollars ($2,293.00). (Ord. 81-
1594, 4-20-1981; amd. 1997 Code)
1-7-6: DEPUTY CLERK:
The village clerk may, by and with the consent of the president and board of
trustees, appoint a deputy, who in the absence of the clerk in case of sickness
or otherwise, shall be empowered to perform all the duties of the village
clerk. (1978 Code § 1-8-12)
CHAPTER 8
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Officers Enumerated
1-8-2: Elective Officers
1-8-3: Appointive Officers
1-8-4: Oath Of Office
1-8-5: Bonds
1-8-6: Records
1-8-7: Powers And Duties
1-8-8: Official Commission
1-8-9: Permits In Writing
1-8-1: OFFICERS ENUMERATED:
The officers of the Village shall consist of the following:
   A.   Elective Officers:
Village President
Board of Trustees
Village Clerk
   B.   Appointive Officers:
Village Manager
Village Attorney
Village Treasurer
Director of Administrative Services
Director of Community Development
Director of Engineering (“Village Engineer”)
Director of Finance
Director of Fire and Emergency Medical Services
Director of Law Enforcement Services
Director of Municipal Services
Director of Recreation
Director of Technology
Coordinator, Emergency Management Agency (EMA)
and such other officers as the President and Board of Trustees may deem
expedient. Officers can fill one or more positions. (Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-1982;
amd. Ord. 94-1891, 3-28-1994; 1997 Code; Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998; Ord. 20-
3007, 6-22-2020)
1-8-2: ELECTIVE OFFICERS:
The President, the members of the Board of Trustees and the Village Clerk shall
be elected in the manner and for the respective terms provided by law. (Ord.
82-1615, 2-16-1982)
1-8-3: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
All appointive officers of the Village, except as otherwise provided by this
Code, shall be appointed by the Village Manager with the approval of the
President and Board of Trustees. Terms of such appointive office shall begin at
the date of approval by the Village Board, and the office shall be held until
the appointive officer dies, becomes disabled, resigns, is dismissed from the
position by the Village Manager, or until his or her successor is appointed by
the Village Manager. No employment contract is established or intended by any
such appointment and such officers serve at the pleasure of the appointing
authority (i.e. the Village Manager or the Board). (Ord. 94-1891, 3-28-1994;
amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 20-3007, 6-22-2020)
1-8-4: OATH OF OFFICE:
All officers, whether elected or appointed, shall, before entering upon the
duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe to the following oath or
affirmation:
I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the State of Illinois,
and the Municipal Code of the Village of Western Springs and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of                       
according to the best of my ability.
which oath or affirmation so subscribed shall be filed in the office of the
Village Clerk. (Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
1-8-5: BONDS:
   A.   Bonds Required; Filing: Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, all
Village officers, other than a Trustee, who shall be elected or appointed to
office shall, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices,
execute a bond with security, to be approved by the President and Board of
Trustees. This bond shall be payable to the Village in the amount elsewhere
provided in this Code and shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of
the duties of the office and the paying over of all public monies received by
such officer, in accordance with law and the Village ordinances, and the orders
and resolutions of the President and Board of Trustees. All such bonds shall be
filed with the Village Clerk, except the bond of the Clerk, which shall be
filed with the Treasurer; provided, that a blanket coverage surety bond may be
executed, with approval by the President and Board of Trustees, for all
elective and appointive officers of the Village. (Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-1982; amd.
1997 Code)
   B.   Failure To Give Bond: No officer shall be commissioned until he gives
such bond if other than a blanket coverage surety bond is required; if he does
not take the oath and present such bond to the Clerk when such bond is required
(or, in the case of the Clerk, to the Treasurer) within ten (10) days after
notification by the Clerk of his election or appointment to office, his office
shall become vacant.
   C.   Payment Of Premiums: All premiums charged by the corporate surety on
such bonds shall be paid by the Village out of its general funds, and in no
case by the individual officer furnishing the bond. (Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-1982)
1-8-6: RECORDS:
   A.   Inspection: All books, papers, warrants, correspondence, entries,
accounts and memoranda of each and every officer having reference to Village
matters may be examined at any time by the President or any member of the Board
of Trustees; and the said Board by resolution may call upon any officer to make
a report in writing concerning any subject matter pertaining to his office and
within such time as the Board may designate in such resolution.
   B.   Records To Successor: Any person having been an officer of the Village
shall, within five (5) days after notification and request, deliver to his
successor in office all property, books and effects of every description in his
possession belonging to the Village and pertaining to his office. (Ord. 82-
1615, 2-16-1982)
1-8-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
Every Village officer, beside the powers and duties assigned to him by this
Code, shall also have the further powers and perform the further duties which
usually pertain to his office, and shall be subject to such other rules and
regulations as the President and Board of Trustees may from time to time
prescribe or by ordinance establish. (Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-1982)
1-8-8: OFFICIAL COMMISSION:
All officers, elective or appointive, except the President, Clerk and Trustees,
shall be commissioned by warrant signed by the President and the Board of
Trustees and attested by the Clerk under the Corporate Seal. The commission
shall be substantially the following form:
OFFICIAL COMMISSION: The Village of Western Springs. To all to whom these
presents shall come:                  having been duly elected (or appointed)
to the office of                   in and for the Village of Western Springs,
in the County of Cook and State of Illinois, for the term from the       day of
                         19     to the       day of                        
19     and until his successor shall be duly elected (or appointed) and
qualified, is hereby fully authorized and empowered to assume and perform all
of the duties of his office according to the laws of the State of Illinois and
the provisions of the Village Code, and all persons are required to respect him
in the discharge of his said duties.
Given under my hand and the Corporate Seal of the Village of Western Springs
this       day of                   . 19    .
                             
   President of the Village
   of Western Springs
Attest:
                       
Village Clerk
(Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-1982)
1-8-9: PERMITS IN WRITING:
All permits issued by any officer, pursuant to ordinance of the Village, shall
be in writing and duplicates thereof shall be kept on permanent file. (Ord. 82-
1615, 2-16-1982; 1997 Code)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE MANAGER 1
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Creation; Appointment; Term
1-8A-2: Qualifications
1-8A-3: Bond; Oath; Compensation
1-8A-4: Vacancy
1-8A-5: Deputy Village Manager
1-8A-6: Personnel; Audit Report
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-9A-3 of this title.
1-8A-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT; TERM:
There is hereby created the office of village manager, an administrative office
of the village. The village manager shall be appointed by a majority of votes
of the president and board of trustees, voting jointly, and may be removed at
any time for any reason by a similar vote. During his or her term of office,
the village manager need not be a resident of the village, but shall reside at
a permanent residence at a location agreeable to the president and board of
trustees. (Ord. 00-2137, 8-8-2000)
1-8A-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The village manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of his executive and
administrative qualifications with special reference to his actual experience
in, and his knowledge of, accepted practices in respect to the duties of his
office. (Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-1982)
1-8A-3: BOND; OATH; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Bond: Before entering upon the duties of his office the village manager
shall furnish a bond as provided in section
1-8-5 of this chapter in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). In the
event the village maintains in force a blanket coverage surety bond which
includes coverage for the village manager, the village manager shall not be
required to furnish a bond as provided herein.
   B.   Oath And Compensation: The village manager shall take the oath
prescribed by statute 1 . He shall receive such compensation as may be fixed
from time to time by the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-
1982)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
  1-8-4 of this chapter.
1-8A-4: VACANCY:
In the event of death, removal from the village, resignation, incapacity, or
disability of the village manager, the vacancy thus or otherwise created shall
be filled by the president and board of trustees voting jointly. (Ord. 82-1615,
2-16-1982)
1-8A-5: DEPUTY VILLAGE MANAGER:
During the temporary absence of the village manager, the duties of his office
shall be performed by an appointive officer of the village designated as the
deputy village manager. The deputy village manager shall be appointed by the
village manager with the approval of the board of trustees. (Ord. 82-1615, 2-
16-1982)
1-8A-6: PERSONNEL; AUDIT REPORT:
The village manager shall make an annual report, in writing, to the president
and board of trustees of the status of village personnel. (Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-
1982)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Creation; Appointment
1-8B-2: Bond; Oath
1-8B-3: Accounts And Records
1-8B-4: Warrants
1-8B-5: Special Assessments
1-8B-6: Reports
1-8B-7: Monies Collected; Custody
1-8B-8: Depository Banks
1-8B-9: Records To Successor
1-8B-10: Compensation
1-8B-11: Fees For Nonsufficient Funds
1-8B-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Village Treasurer, an administrative
office of the Village. The Treasurer shall be appointed by the President and
the Board of Trustees, voting jointly. (Ord. 78-1519, 9-18-1978; amd. Ord. 94-
1891, 3-28-1994)
1-8B-2: BOND; OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Treasurer shall furnish a
bond, as provided in Section
1-8-5 of this Chapter, in such sum as shall be from time to time determined by
the Board of Trustees by ordinance. Said bond shall be for a sum not less than
ten percent (10%) of the highest amount of taxes and special assessments
received by him or his predecessors during any fiscal year in the last
preceding five (5) fiscal years, nor less than one and one-half (11/2) times
the largest amount which is estimated will be in his custody at any one time,
or less than three (3) times the latest Federal census population or any
subsequent census figure used for motor fuel tax purposes. The Treasurer shall
also take the oath of office prescribed by statute. (Ord. 79-1549)
1-8B-3: ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS:
   A.   Payments: The Treasurer, in addition to the duties prescribed by
statute, shall keep a true and accurate account showing all monies paid into
the Treasury and by whom and on what account received; he shall pay out such
sums of money as may be owed by the Village, but only after the presentation of
claims which shall be approved as provided in Section
1-13-5 of this Title. All checks shall be signed by the Treasurer. In all cases
checks shall state upon what particular funds they are drawn. Any bond or
interest coupon issued by the Village, and due and payable, shall be considered
as a warrant duly authorized for payment by the Treasurer. (Ord. 79-1547, 6-25-
1979)
   B.   Books And Accounts: The books kept by the Village Treasurer shall at
all times show the exact condition of the monies under his control, of each
account and appropriation, and of all receipts and disbursements, and such
books together with all others in his custody and belonging to the Village
shall be by him handed over to his successor. The Treasurer shall keep a
separate account for each fund or appropriation. The Treasurer shall keep all
books, papers, vouchers, warrants, documents and all other instruments in
writing pertaining to his office at the office of the Village, which books and
documents shall, at all times, be open to the inspection of the President, the
Trustees, the Village Attorney and the Village Manager. The Treasurer shall
keep such books of accounts as are herein provided and as the President and
Board of Trustees shall from time to time direct. (1978 Code § 1-9-6; 1997
Code)
   C.   Balance Of Accounts: The books of accounts provided for in this Article
shall be properly balanced at least once in each month, in such a manner that
the same, when so balanced, shall show the true status and condition of each
and every account therein shown. (1978 Code § 1-9-6)
1-8B-4: WARRANTS:
   A.   Payment: No monies shall be paid by the Treasurer upon any warrant,
bond or coupon except from the monies belonging to the particular fund or
appropriation upon which such warrant shall have been drawn; no money shall be
transferred by the Treasurer from one fund to another after it has been
received by him, nor be appropriated to any other purpose than that for which
it has been collected or paid, without the vote of a majority of the Board of
Trustees.
   B.   Register: The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed
and paid, which shall describe such warrants and show the date, amount, serial
numbers, the fund from which paid, the name of the person to whom paid and the
date of payment. (1978 Code § 1-9-4)
   C.   Cancellation: The Treasurer shall cancel all warrants paid or redeemed
by him. (1978 Code § 1-9-4; 1997 Code)
1-8B-5: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Accounts For Special Assessments: The Treasurer shall keep an account
of each special assessment under its general description and number, and said
account shall show at its head the amount assessed for public benefits and also
that for special benefits. All monies received on any special assessment shall
be held by the Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to payment for the
improvement for which the assessment was made, and said money shall be issued
for no other purpose, except as may be provided in the ordinance for the
improvement. (1978 Code § 1-9-5)
   B.   Collector Of Special Assessments: The Treasurer shall act as collector
of special assessments and shall execute all special assessment and other
warrants. (1997 Code)
1-8B-6: REPORTS:
   A.   Monthly: The Treasurer shall, each month, make a report in writing to
the Board of Trustees containing a full detailed account of all receipts and
expenditures of the Village, as shown by his books, for the preceding calendar
month. (1978 Code § 1-9-7; 1997 Code)
   B.   Annual: Within six (6) months after the end of each fiscal year, the
Treasurer shall annually prepare and file with the Village Clerk an account of
the monies received and expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year
as specified in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-10-5.1. (1997 Code)
1-8B-7: MONIES COLLECTED; CUSTODY:
   A.   Monies Collected:
      1.   Collection Of Monies; Reports: The Village Treasurer shall collect
money belonging to the Village and shall each month make a written report to
the President and Board of Trustees to be presented at the regular meeting of
the Board in each month, covering collections and disbursements for the
preceding month. These reports shall be delivered to the Village Manager who
shall present them to the Board.
      2.   Monies To Treasurer: Each and every officer of the Village who shall
collect any monies belonging to the Village shall, by or before the end of the
day in which they are collected, turn over the same to the Village Treasurer
together with an itemized statement of the same, taking his receipt therefor.
(Ord. 82-1615, 2-16-1982; 1997 Code)
   B.   Custody Of Monies: The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the
Village separate and distinct from his own monies, and he is hereby expressly
prohibited from using, either directly or indirectly, any Village monies or
warrants in his custody and keeping, for his own use and benefit or that of any
other person. Violation of this provision shall subject him to immediate
removal from office by the President and Board of Trustees. In case of his
removal, the President and Board of Trustees, voting jointly, shall appoint a
successor, who shall hold office for the remainder of the unexpired term. (1978
Code § 1-9-8; 1997 Code)
1-8B-8: DEPOSITORY BANKS:
The Treasurer shall keep all monies, belonging to the Village, in such
regularly organized bank or banks as may, from time to time, be designated by
ordinance, as provided by law. (1978 Code § 1-9-9; 1997 Code)
1-8B-9: RECORDS TO SUCCESSOR:
Whenever his term of office shall expire, whether by resignation, relocation
out of the Village, removal from office by the President and Board of Trustees,
the appointment of a successor or other cause, the Treasurer shall at once
deliver to his successor in office, or such other person as may be specially
designated by resolution of the Board of Trustees, all monies, property, books
and effects of every description in his possession, belonging to the Village or
pertaining to his office. He shall also at once account for and pay over to
such successor or other person designated all monies that belong to the
Village. (1978 Code § 1-9-10; 1997 Code)
1-8B-10: COMPENSATION:
The Village Treasurer shall not receive compensation for his or her services as
such officer during his or her respective term of office and until his or her
respective successor shall have been appointed or until the term of office of
such officer shall terminate by removal or otherwise an amount as the President
and Board of Trustees shall from time to time determine. (Ord. 81-1595, 4-20-
1981; amd. Ord. 21-3039, 4-26-2021)
1-8B-11: FEES FOR NONSUFFICIENT FUNDS:
The Treasurer is hereby authorized to assess a ten dollar ($10.00) fee for each
check that is submitted as payment to the Village and which is returned to the
Village because the payer's bank account does not have sufficient funds to pay
the check and shall add to said ten dollar ($10.00) service fee all related
bank charges assessed against the Village. (Ord. 85-1683, 5-20-1985; 1997 Code)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Creation; Appointment
1-8C-2: Bond; Oath
1-8C-3: Duties
1-8C-4: Compensation
1-8C-5: Special Counsel
1-8C-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Village Attorney, an executive office of
the Village. The Village Attorney shall be appointed by the President and the
Board of Trustees, voting jointly. (1978 Code §
1-11-1; amd. Ord. 94-1891, 3-28-1994)
1-8C-2: BOND; OATH:
   A.   Bond: The Village Attorney, before entering upon the duties of his
office, shall execute a bond, as provided in Section
1-8-5 of this Chapter, unless the Village maintains in force a blanket coverage
surety bond which includes coverage for the Village Attorney. If such a blanket
coverage bond is maintained in force by the Village, the Village Attorney shall
not be required to furnish a bond as provided herein.
   B.   Oath: The Village Attorney shall also take the oath prescribed by
statute 1 . (1978 Code § 1-11-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-8-4 of this Chapter.
1-8C-3: DUTIES:
The Village Attorney shall:
   A.   Duties Generally: Prepare certain contracts, leases, deeds and other
legal documents which may be required of him by the Board of Trustees or any
committee thereof and shall draw up certain ordinances and resolutions of the
Board. He shall give the necessary attention to certain suits and proceedings
in every court of record and before certain administrative bodies in which the
Village may be a party or be directly interested. He shall appear as the
Attorney in behalf of any officer of the Village in any suit, prosecution or
other judicial proceeding brought by or against such officer in his official
capacity and, as the case may require, shall prosecute or defend to the
termination thereof. He shall, when required by the President or the Board of
Trustees or, in emergency, by the Village Manager or Director of Law
Enforcement Services, prosecute all cases brought before the proper officer for
violation of any provision of this Code. He shall also perform all other
services legal in character customarily performed by a municipal attorney.
(1978 Code § 1-11-3; 1997 Code)
   B.   Legal Opinions: Give his legal opinions in writing, when requested, to
the Board of Trustees, or any committee thereof, the Village Manager, the
President, the Zoning Board of Appeals or the Village Plan Commission, on legal
questions arising under or concerning any provisions of this Code and on legal
questions and subjects in which the Village shall be legally interested. (1978
Code § 1-11-4; 1997 Code)
   C.   Docket: Keep, in proper books provided for the purpose, a docket of all
suits or proceedings prosecuted or defended by him in which the Village is an
interested party, in which shall be briefly entered all steps taken in each
such proceeding. All such books, and all files, papers and memoranda relating
to all suits or proceedings shall be the property of the Village. (1978 Code §
1-11-5)
   D.   Attendance At Meetings; Reports: Attend the meetings of the Board of
Trustees and each year make a report to said Board of all suits, proceedings or
actions prosecuted or defended by him or outside counsel during the preceding
year, with the names of the parties thereto, the titles of the courts or other
bodies where the same are pending, their progress and final disposition, and
such other information concerning the legal interests of the Village as may be
required by the President or Board of Trustees. He shall make such other
reports on pending matters as the President or Board may from time to time
require. (1978 Code § 1-11-6; 1997 Code)
1-8C-4: COMPENSATION:
The Village Attorney shall be compensated as shall from time to time be fixed
by the President and Board of Trustees and, in addition thereto, such
compensation as may be agreed upon from time to time for prosecution of cases
brought before the proper officer for violation of any Village ordinance, and
for time spent in preparation and trial proceedings in courts of record and
before commissions and other regulatory bodies. (1978 Code § 1-11-7; 1997 Code)
1-8C-5: SPECIAL COUNSEL:
Nothing in this Code contained shall be construed as prohibiting the Board of
Trustees from employing special counsel to represent the Village from time to
time, or from paying such compensation to such special counsel as the said
Board of Trustees may from time to time determine. (1978 Code § 1-11-8)
CHAPTER 9
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Short Title
1-9A-2: Definitions
1-9A-3: Village Manager
1-9A-4: Administrative Organization
1-9A-5: Administrative Policies And Procedures
1-9A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ADMINISTRATIVE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF WESTERN SPRINGS. (1997 Code)
1-9A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OR BOARD OR CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The president and board of
trustees of the village of Western Springs.
VILLAGE: The village of Western Springs.
VILLAGE MANAGER, MANAGER, CHIEF ADMINISTRATOR OR ADMINISTRATOR: The village
manager of the village of Western Springs. (1997 Code)
1-9A-3: VILLAGE MANAGER 1 :
The village manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the village
government, shall enforce laws of the village and require the faithful
performance of all administrative duties. His powers shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
   A.   Duties:
      1.   Appointment, Supervision And Dismissal Of Officers And Employees:
Appoint competent, qualified officers and employees to the administrative
service and have the power to supervise, dismiss, suspend and discipline, in
accordance with the personnel rules and regulations in effect, all officers and
employees in the administrative service under his control. He shall also have
the power to authorize a group director, department head or officer responsible
to him to appoint and remove subordinates serving under that group director,
department head or officer.
      2.   Appointment To Acting Capacity: Designate himself or some other
officer or employee to perform the duties of any office or position in the
administrative service under his control which is vacant or which lacks
supervision due to absence or disability of the incumbent.
      3.   Reports: Prepare and present to the board various reports as
appropriate of the village's affairs, including a summary of reports compiled
by directors and department heads and such other reports as the board shall
require. (1997 Code)
      4.   Annual Budget And Corporate Plan: Act as the budget officer and
assemble estimates of the financial needs, resources and programs of the
village for each of three (3) ensuing years, and incorporate those factors into
a three (3) year budget or corporate plan and a single year fiscal operating
budget with proper supporting schedules and analyses which shall be submitted
to the village board for approval at the appropriate time during each fiscal
year. (Ord. 01-2190, 12-17-2001)
      5.   Purchasing Agent: Act as or designate a purchasing agent for the
village, as more fully provided in chapter 13 of this title.
      6.   Attend Board Meetings: Attend all official meetings of the president
and board of trustees.
      7.   Additional Duties: Perform such other duties as may from time to
time be required of him.
   B.   Powers:
      1.   Assign According To Classification: Assign any employee of the
village to any department or branch thereof requiring services appropriate to
the personnel system classification of the employee so assigned.
      2.   Prescribe Rules: In conformity with this code, prescribe,
promulgate, amend or repeal such rules and regulations in effect as he shall
deem necessary or expedient to efficiently carry out the duties of
administration of the affairs of the village; provided, that there shall be no
conflict with said code or the group personnel rules and regulations of the
village.
      3.   Investigate: Either by himself or by any officer or person
designated for the purpose by him, investigate and examine or inquire into the
affairs or operation of any department, division, bureau or office, and when so
authorized by the board, employ consultants and professional counsel to aid in
such investigations, examinations or inquiries.
      4.   Overrule Officials: Set aside any action or decision made by a group
director or department head and may supersede him in the functions of his
office.
      5.   Delegate Duties: Direct any group, department or division to perform
the work for any other group, department or division or assign any work or
project to any group, department or division.
      6.   Appoint Administrative Committees: Establish from time to time such
administrative committees as he shall find necessary. Such committees shall
meet at the request of the village manager and shall make such recommendation
on matters referred to them as they shall find necessary for the best interests
of the village. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 8, article A of this title.
1-9A-4: ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION:
The administrative organization of the village shall be divided under the
village manager into the following groups and departments thereof. Each group
shall be managed by a director, and the director of each group shall report to
the village manager:
   A.   General government group: Village manager:
Village manager's office
Village clerk's office
Legal services
Management services/data processing
   B.   Financial services group: Director of finance:
Finance administration
Burlington Northern accounting/collections
Water utility meter reading
Debt service management
Pension fund management
   C.   Municipal services group: Director of municipal services:
Public works administration
Street right of way and Burlington Northern maintenance
Vehicle maintenance
Municipal property management
Forestry
Water and sewer utility administration
Water production and distribution
Sewer maintenance and rehabilitation
Recreation services and property management
   D.   Law enforcement group: Director of law enforcement services:
Law enforcement administration
Patrol services and criminal investigation
Crime prevention and youth services
Communication and information management
Parking enforcement
Emergency telephone (911) (1997 Code)
   E.   Fire and inspectional services group: Director of fire and inspectional
services:
Fire administration
Fire suppression and emergency medical services
Training and public education
Inspectional services
Emergency management agency (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-9A-5: ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Perform Duties: Every employee shall perform all duties required of his
office by state law, this code and ordinances of the village, and such other
duties not in conflict therewith as may be required by the village manager.
   B.   Group Directors: The directors of groups shall:
      1.   Responsibility To Village Manager: Be immediately responsible to the
village manager for the effective administration of their respective groups and
all activities assigned thereto.
      2.   Initiate Sound Practices: Keep informed as to the latest practices
in their particular field and shall initiate, with the approval of the village
manager, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the service of the
public.
      3.   Report To Village Manager: Submit quarterly and annual reports of
the activities of the group to the village manager and such other reports as
may be requested from time to time.
      4.   Maintain Records: Establish and maintain a system of filing and
indexing records and reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information
necessary for proper control of group activities which will form a basis for
the periodic reports to the village manager.
      5.   Authority Over Employees: Have power, when authorized by the village
manager, to appoint and remove, subject to personnel rules and regulations in
effect, all subordinates under them.
      6.   Maintain Equipment: Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all
village property and equipment used in their respective group.
   C.   Department Heads: The heads of departments shall:
      1.   Responsible To Group Director: Be immediately responsible to their
respective group director for the effective administration of their respective
divisions and all activities assigned thereto.
      2.   Authority Over Employees: Have power, when authorized by the village
manager, to appoint and remove, subject to personnel rules and regulations in
effect, all subordinates under them.
      3.   Maintain Equipment: Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all
village property and equipment used in their respective department.
   D.   Cooperation Among Groups: Each group and department thereof shall
furnish, upon the direction of the village manager, any other group and
division thereof such service, labor and materials as may be formally requested
by the head of such group and as its own facilities permit on a cooperative
basis for the betterment of service to the public. (1997 Code)
ARTICLE B. GENERAL GOVERNMENT GROUP
SECTION:
1-9B-1: General Government Group
1-9B-2: Village Manager's Office
1-9B-3: Duties Of Village Manager As A Department Head
1-9B-4: Functions Of General Government Group
1-9B-1: GENERAL GOVERNMENT GROUP:
The General Government Group shall consist of the Village Manager and the
direct reports to the Village Manager which include but are not limited to the
Assistant to the Village Manager, Technical Systems Coordinator, Executive
Secretary, Administrative Intern and other clerical employees as authorized at
any time. (1997 Code)
1-9B-2: VILLAGE MANAGER'S OFFICE:
The General Government Group shall also be known as the Village Manager's
office. (1997 Code)
1-9B-3: DUTIES OF VILLAGE MANAGER AS A DEPARTMENT HEAD:
The Village Manager shall have management responsibility and control over all
matters pertaining to the General Government Group in addition to the general
duties of the office of Village Manager specified in Section
1-9A-3 of this Chapter. (1997 Code)
1-9B-4: FUNCTIONS OF GENERAL GOVERNMENT GROUP:
The General Government Group shall be responsible for the administration of:
   A.   Village Manager's Office: The following general duties and programs:
liaison and service to the President and Board of Trustees and the volunteer
boards and commissions, personnel rules and regulations in effect, risk
management programs and public relations and communications programs.
   B.   Legal Services: The following legal services: corporate legal work,
prosecutions, litigation and labor relations.
   C.   Management Services/Data Processing: The central and management
services functions of the Village and the coordination of data processing
services and equipment. (1997 Code)
ARTICLE C. FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP
SECTION:
1-9C-1: Financial Services Group
1-9C-2: Duties Of Director Of Finance
1-9C-3: Functions Of Financial Services Group
1-9C-1: FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP:
The Financial Services Group shall consist of a Director of Finance and such
other department heads, officers and employees as the Village Manager shall
authorize. (1997 Code)
1-9C-2: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF FINANCE:
The Director of Finance shall:
   A.   Management Responsibility And Control: Have management responsibility
and control over all matters pertaining to the Financial Services Group.
   B.   Chief Financial Officer/Treasurer: Act as the Chief Financial Officer/
Treasurer of the Village and as such shall be responsible for the collection of
Village funds from any source and the prompt payment of expenses after such
expenses have been properly approved.
   C.   Secure Financial Interests: In all cases where the duty is not
expressly charged to any other group or department thereof, act to promote,
secure and preserve the financial and property interests of the Village.
   D.   Fiscal Supervision Over Officers: Exercise general supervision over all
officers of the Village regarding the property management and the fiscal
concerns of their respective offices. (1997 Code)
1-9C-3: FUNCTIONS OF FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP:
The Financial Services Group shall:
   A.   Administration: Maintain accurate and timely records and safeguard the
assets of the Village. The Financial Services Group shall also provide outside
agencies with accurate, effective and timely accounting and reporting systems
as well as any needed support services.
   B.   Burlington Northern Accounting/Collections: Account and maintain
accurate records of the parking permits issued.
   C.   Water Meter Utility Reading: Monitor and supervise the reading of all
residential and commercial meters on a predetermined schedule.
   D.   Debt Service Management: Administer and account for the accumulation of
resources for, and the payment of, principal and interest on general long-term
debt.
   E.   Pension Fund Management: Administer and account for the accumulation of
resources to be used for retirement annuity payments of appropriate amounts at
times in the future. (1997 Code)
ARTICLE D. MUNICIPAL SERVICES GROUP
SECTION:
1-9D-1: Municipal Services Group
1-9D-2: Duties Of Director Of Municipal Services
1-9D-3: Departments And Divisions Of Municipal Services Group
1-9D-1: MUNICIPAL SERVICES GROUP:
The municipal services group shall consist of a director of municipal services
and such department heads, superintendents and employees as the village manager
shall authorize. (1997 Code)
1-9D-2: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES:
The director of municipal services shall:
   A.   Management Responsibility And Control: Have management responsibility
and control over all matters pertaining to the municipal services group,
including the supervision of all personnel, the provision of all services and
the management of all budgetary programs, subject to direction from the village
manager.
   B.   Office Operations: Have responsibility for the supervision of the
municipal services office operations including the implementation and
monitoring of the municipal services management information system and, in
particular, the geographic information system.
   C.   Capital Planning: Coordinate assembly of the municipal services portion
of the five (5) year corporate plan and the twenty (20) year infrastructure
management plan.
   D.   Cooperation With Other Directors: Work cooperatively with other village
directors, staff members and consultants on all municipal services matters,
code or policy enforcement matters, and other village related matters referred
to him/her by the village manager or as required by applicable laws, ordinances
and regulations, including this code.
   E.   Technical Consultants: Supervise the work of technical consultants on
matters related to municipal services projects. (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 20-3007,
6-22-2020)
1-9D-3: DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES GROUP:
   A.   Functions Of The Department Of Public Works:
      1.   Public right of way maintenance, including streets, sidewalks,
streetlights and traffic signals.
      2.   Vehicle maintenance and repair.
      3.   Forestry, including public tree replacement, trimming, removal and
public consultation and education regarding forestry matters.
      4.   Water distribution, including the maintenance of water mains and
hydrants.
      5.   Sewer maintenance/rehabilitation, including the maintenance and
repair of the village's sanitary, storm and combined sewer systems. (1997 Code)
      6.   Liaison with the Western Springs infrastructure commission 1 . (1997
Code; amd. Ord. 01-2187, 12-17-2001)
   B.   Functions Of The Water Department:
      1.   Water production, including the operation and maintenance of the
village's wells, water plant and storage facilities.
      2.   Water distribution, including the maintenance of residential water
services.
   C.   Functions Of The Department Of Recreation:
      1.   Recreation services, including the operation of the village's fall,
winter/spring and summer programs.
      2.   Building services, including the operation and maintenance of the
village's recreation center.
      3.   Grand Avenue community center, including the operation and
maintenance of the Grand Avenue community center and liaison with the Western
Springs community center association.
      4.   Liaison with the Western Springs recreation commission 2 . (1997
Code)
      5.   Cooperation with school districts, park districts or other
governmental authorities and bodies for the purpose of utilizing lands,
buildings and equipment made available to the department by such other
governmental bodies and authorities. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
   D.   Functions Of The Properties Division:
      1.   Municipal properties, including the maintenance and repair of the
village hall, firehouse, public works garage, village tower/historical museum
and other general properties of the village.
      2.   Burlington Northern commuter facilities, including the repair and
maintenance of the train station, railroad right of way and parking facilities.
      3.   Liaison with the west suburban mass transit district. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 11 of this code.
2 2. See title 2, chapter 7 of this code.
ARTICLE E. LAW ENFORCEMENT GROUP
SECTION:
1-9E-1: Law Enforcement Administration
1-9E-2: Patrol Services And Criminal Investigation
1-9E-3: Crime Prevention And Youth Services
1-9E-4: Communication And Information Management
1-9E-5: Ordinance Control And Parking Enforcement
1-9E-6: Emergency Telephone (9-1-1)
1-9E-1: LAW ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Department Of Law Enforcement Services: The department of law
enforcement services shall consist of a director, a deputy police chief (deputy
director of law enforcement services), and such police lieutenants, sergeants
and police officers as the operating budget and the personnel classification
system shall authorize.
   B.   Appointment, Removal And Suspension Of Personnel: Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this code, all police lieutenants, sergeants and full time
officers shall be appointed by the board of fire and police commissioners 1 .
The board of fire and police commissioners may, at any time, for cause, remove
from office or suspend any member of the department of law enforcement services
except the director of law enforcement services, the deputy police chief
(deputy director of law enforcement services), and nonsworn personnel. (Ord.
06-2411, 10-23-2006)
   C.   Duties Of Director Of Law Enforcement Services: The director of law
enforcement services shall direct the police work of the village and be
responsible for the enforcement and maintenance of law and order and shall:
      1.   Generally: Have the custody, care and control of the public property
of the department and of all firearms and other equipment; devote his whole
time to village affairs, to preserve the peace, order, safety and cleanliness
thereof, and to this end execute and enforce all village code provisions and
all orders of the president and board of trustees; be charged with the duty of
protecting the rights of persons and the protection of property in the village;
make rules and regulations governing the conduct of members of the department
of law enforcement services subject to conflict with the rules and regulations
of the board of fire and police commissioners and review and approval of the
village manager.
      2.   Division Assignments: Assign officers to each division of the
department. Reassignment from one division to another shall only be made by the
director of law enforcement services.
      3.   Juvenile Officer: Designate a juvenile officer to supervise all
cases under the juvenile court act.
      4.   Execution Of Process: Have power and authority, and it shall be his
duty, within the village, to serve and execute warrants and other processes for
the apprehension and commitment of persons charged with violation of any code
provision or any crime or misdemeanor or offense against the peace of the state
or the village or held for examination or trial or taken on execution for the
commission of any crime or misdemeanor or violation of any law or ordinance,
and he shall also have power and authority and it shall be his duty to serve
and execute any civil process issued by any court or proper officer, in any
case in which the village is a party, and while serving or executing or
assisting in the service or execution of any such warrant or process, he shall
be vested with and have all the powers and authority conferred on constables at
common law and by the laws of the state.
      5.   Reports: On or before April 1 of each year, make an annual report,
in writing, to the village manager and president and board of trustees
concerning the state of the department, with a detailed statement of the
transactions of the department of law enforcement services for the preceding
year, together with such statistics and suggestions in regard to the
requirements of the department of law enforcement services as he may deem
advisable. He shall also make reports of any matter concerning the department
whenever requested by the president and board of trustees. (1997 Code)
   D.   Deputy Police Chief (Deputy Director Of Law Enforcement Services):
      1.   Generally: There is established the position of deputy police chief
(also referred to as the deputy director of law enforcement services). The
deputy police chief shall be appointed by the director of law enforcement
services with the approval of the village manager. The rank of deputy police
chief shall be an exempt rank immediately below that of director. The
appointment shall be from any rank of sworn, full time officers of the
village's police department, provided such officer has at least five (5) years
of full time service as a police officer with the village's police department.
The deputy police chief shall serve at the discretion of and may be removed
from the position by the director of law enforcement services with or without
cause. If removed from the position of deputy police chief, the officer shall
revert to the rank held immediately prior to appointment to the deputy police
chief rank, regardless of whether a vacancy exists in that rank. A deputy
police chief, having been appointed from any rank of sworn full time officers
of the village's police department, shall be permitted, regardless of rank, to
take promotional exams and be promoted to a higher classified rank than he or
she currently holds, without having to resign as deputy police chief.
      2.   Duties: The deputy police chief shall perform those duties as
required by the director of law enforcement services. Should there be a vacancy
in the office of director of law enforcement services, the deputy police chief
shall have the powers and shall perform the duties of the director of law
enforcement services until such time as a new director is appointed and sworn
into office. Should the director of law enforcement services be incapacitated
or otherwise unable to perform the duties of director, the deputy police chief
shall have the powers and shall perform the duties of director of law
enforcement services until such time as the director is able to resume the
performance of the duties of director of law enforcement services.
      3.   Compensation: The compensation of the deputy police chief shall be
set by the village manager in conjunction with the annual budget approved by
the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 06-2411, 10-23-2006)
   E.   Auxiliary Police:
      1.   Appointment: The village manager or his designee may, with the
advice and consent of the president and board of trustees, appoint auxiliary
police officers in such number as the village manager or his designee shall
from time to time deem necessary.
      2.   Duties And Restrictions: Such auxiliary police shall not be members
of the regular department of law enforcement services. Such auxiliary police
shall not supplement members of the regular department of law enforcement
services in the performance of their assigned and normal duties, except as
otherwise provided herein. Such auxiliary police members shall only be assigned
to perform the following duties in the village:
         a.   To aid or direct traffic within the village.
         b.   To aid in control of natural or manmade disasters.
         c.   To aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the director of
law enforcement services; provided, that in cases which render it impractical
for members of the regular department of law enforcement services to perform
the normal and regular police duties, the director of law enforcement services
is hereby authorized to assign auxiliary police officers to assist sworn police
officers in the performance of those sworn police officers' normal and regular
police duties.
      3.   Identification Symbols: Identification symbols, including a badge
and uniform worn by such auxiliary police officers, shall be different and
distinct from those used by members of the regular department of law
enforcement services. Such auxiliary police shall, at all times during the
performance of their duties, be subject to the direction and control of the
director of law enforcement services.
      4.   Firearms: The auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms,
except with the permission of the director of law enforcement services and
while in uniform and in the performance of their duties, and only after
completing the same course of training as required of peace officers under
section 2 of the peace officer firearm training act 2 .
      5.   Conservators Of The Peace: The auxiliary police, when on duty, shall
not be conservators of peace, shall not have the powers (including arrest
powers) as specified in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-15-25, and shall
not have the powers set forth in subsection F1 of this section, except with the
permission of the director of law enforcement services and while in uniform and
in the performance of their duties, and only after successful completion of the
same course of training as required of peace officers under section 2 of the
peace officer firearm training act 3 , as amended, and compliance with the
provisions of section 7 of the Illinois police training act 4 , as amended,
including successful completion of the mandatory basic law enforcement officer
training course or such other training requirements required by state law.
      6.   Training; Fingerprinting: Auxiliary police, prior to entering upon
any of their duties, shall receive a course of training in the use of weapons
and other police procedures as shall be appropriate in the exercise of the
powers conferred upon them under this subsection, which training and course of
study shall be determined and provided by the village. Prior to the appointment
of any auxiliary police officer, his fingerprints shall be taken, and no person
shall be appointed as such auxiliary police officer if he has been convicted of
a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude.
   F.   Powers And Duties Of Department And Police Officers:
      1.   Arrests: All police officers shall have power to: a) arrest, with or
without process, all persons who break the peace or are found violating any
ordinance of the village or any criminal law of the state; b) commit arrested
persons for examination; c) if necessary, detain arrested persons in the
village jail or any other safe place until they can be brought before the
proper county officer for trial. They shall have all the powers of constables
as established by common law or by statutes. (Ord. 07-2452, 7-23-2007)
      2.   Police As Witnesses: All officers making arrests shall attend as
witnesses before the court where the trial may be held and shall procure all
necessary evidence in their power, and furnish a list of witnesses to the
court. No village officer or police officer shall be entitled to any witness
fees to be paid by the village in any action for a violation of any code
provision where the village is plaintiff.
      3.   Aid To Department Of Fire And Inspectional Services: It shall be the
duty of the department of law enforcement services to aid the department of
fire and inspectional services by giving alarm in case of fire and by clearing
the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity of the fire so that members of
the fire and inspectional services department shall not be hindered or
obstructed in the performance of their duties.
      4.   Accident Reports: Each and every police officer of the village,
whenever any accident shall occur within the village limits of which he has or
should have notice or knowledge, shall record forthwith in writing the place,
day and nature of the accident, the hour of the day or night when occurred, the
condition of the weather (and, if at night, whether cloudy, clear or moonlit
and whether the streetlamps nearby were not lighted), the name of each person
injured, the extent and nature of the injury suffered, the names and residences
of the principal witnesses and the name and work location of the examining
physician, if any. Said records shall be kept on file at the police station,
and where village personnel, equipment or liability may be involved, a copy of
said record shall be sent forthwith to the village manager.
   G.   Furnishing Bail: No members of the police force shall become or furnish
bail for any person arrested for violation of any ordinance or of the criminal
laws of the state.
   H.   Badge: Every member of the department of law enforcement services,
including auxiliary police officers, shall wear a suitable badge, to be
furnished by the village, and any member who shall lose or destroy the same
shall be required to pay the cost of replacing it. Whenever any member shall
leave the department, he shall immediately deliver his badge and all other
articles in his possession belonging to the village to the director of law
enforcement services.
   I.   Custody Of Lost Or Stolen Property: The director of law enforcement
services shall be, under the general directions of the village manager, the
custodian of all property seized or taken by the police and of all lost or
stolen property within the village. As such custodian, he shall keep or cause
to be kept a record of all property which has been seized or otherwise taken
possession of by the police force. If such property shall not be claimed by the
rightful owner thereof and possession surrendered to such owner within sixty
(60) days from the day of the final disposition of the court proceedings in
connection with which such property was seized or taken possession of, or, in
case there are no such court proceedings, then if such property shall not be
claimed by the rightful owner within six (6) months from the date of such
seizure or taking by the police, the director of law enforcement services shall
publish or cause to be published, in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village, a notice containing a description of such property together with the
date of seizure or the taking possession thereof; copies of said notice shall
also be posted in at least one public place where public notices are commonly
posted, and shall state in said notice that if such property be not claimed by
the rightful owner or owners thereof within ten (10) days from the date of such
publication, said property will be sold at public auction at such place as the
director of law enforcement services may direct and in such manner as to expose
to the inspection of bidders all property so offered for sale; provided, that
such unclaimed property, if deemed by the director of law enforcement services
to be of use to the department of law enforcement services, may be retained for
the use of said department, and provided further, that no member of said
department, directly or indirectly, shall purchase or participate in the
bidding for or purchase of such unclaimed property.
   J.   Emergency Sale Of Property: If any property seized by or coming into
the possession of the police force shall be of a perishable nature or of such a
nature as to make it dangerous or inadvisable to retain possession thereof for
sixty (60) days, the director of law enforcement services, upon certifying such
fact to the board of trustees and setting forth his reasons why such property
should not be retained for the period hereinabove fixed before selling the
same, shall, with the approval of the board of trustees, cause to be posted a
notice as prescribed in subsection I of this section but providing for sale at
any time after three (3) days from the date of such posting and, at the time
fixed in such notice, shall sell such property as provided in subsection I of
this section.
   K.   Resisting Officer; Aid In Escape: It shall be unlawful for any person
in the village to resist any member of the police force in the discharge of his
duties or in any way interfere with or prevent or hinder him in the discharge
of his duty as such member or use any abusive or profane language toward said
police officer or offer or endeavor to do so or in any manner to assist any
person in the custody of any member of the police force to escape or attempt to
escape from custody or attempt to rescue any person in such custody.
   L.   Aid To Police Required: It shall be the duty of any person in the
village, when called upon by the director of law enforcement services or any
member of the department of law enforcement services, to promptly aid and
assist in the execution of police duties. (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 06-2411, 10-23-
2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
2 1. 50 ILCS 710/2.
3 2. 50 ILCS 710/2.
4 3. 50 ILCS 705/7.
1-9E-2: PATROL SERVICES AND CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Composition Of Patrol Services: Patrol consists of uniformed police
officers providing the most visible and critical police services.
   B.   Duties Of Patrol Officers:
      1.   Uniformed officers will patrol the village in cars, on foot and on
bicycles to effectively provide those services.
      2.   Patrol officers respond to calls for service, both criminal and
civil. They will investigate crimes and file reports documenting their
findings.
      3.   Patrol officers will respond to and investigate traffic accidents.
They will attend to the needs of the injured, provide for the safe flow of
traffic and document their findings regarding the accident.
      4.   Patrol officers will enforce both state and village traffic
regulations in order to enhance the safe and efficient flow of traffic within
the village.
      5.   Patrol officers will perform preventative patrols within the village
to discourage crime and promote a sense of security for citizens.
      6.   Patrol officers will provide services as needed on a twenty four
(24) hour a day, seven (7) day a week basis when other service agencies are not
available. (1997 Code)
1-9E-3: CRIME PREVENTION AND YOUTH SERVICES:
   A.   Follow Up Investigation: Officers assigned to the investigation
division will provide follow up investigation of criminal cases.
   B.   Identify Perpetrators, Collect Evidence, Assist In Prosecutions:
Investigators will strive to identify the perpetrators of those crimes, collect
evidence and assist in the prosecution of those persons.
   C.   DARE/Crime Prevention: An officer will:
      1.   Provide drug awareness (DARE) instruction in all fifth grade
classes.
      2.   Provide gang awareness (VEGA) instruction at the fifth or sixth
grade level.
      3.   Provide DARE refresher training at the junior high level.
      4.   Provide drug and gang awareness instruction at the high school
level.
      5.   Coordinate the department's gang interdiction efforts with those of
neighboring departments. (1997 Code)
1-9E-4: COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT:
Telecommunicators will:
   A.   Answer telephones, radio calls, data link messages and personally deal
with the public.
   B.   Answer the emergency telephone lines and dispatch police, fire and EMS
personnel in a professional and timely manner.
   C.   Provide effective records management and storage for departmental
activities. (1997 Code)
1-9E-5: ORDINANCE CONTROL AND PARKING ENFORCEMENT:
The ordinance control officer is a civilian position that provides for
compliance with village ordinances as they affect the general welfare of the
village and its citizens through fair and equal enforcement of those
ordinances. The ordinance control officer provides other services to the public
to assist sworn officers in the performance of their duties. Parking
regulations will also be enforced by the ordinance control officer. (1997 Code)
1-9E-6: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE (9-1-1):
Emergency telephone (9-1-1):
   A.   Provides three (3) digit dialing access for all telephone calls for
emergency services within the village.
   B.   Provides for the acquisition and maintenance of all equipment and/or
personnel necessary to support the 9-1-1 system. (1997 Code)
ARTICLE F. FIRE AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES GROUP
SECTION:
1-9F-1: Fire And Emergency Medical Services Administration
1-9F-2: Fire Suppression And Emergency Medical Services
1-9F-3: Training And Public Education
1-9F-4: Duties Of Director Of Emergency Management Agency (EMA)
1-9F-1: FIRE AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Fire And Emergency Medical Services Group: The fire and emergency
medical services group shall consist of a director of fire and emergency
medical services and such department heads, assistants, inspectors and
employees as the operating budget and the classification system shall
authorize.
   B.   Appointment, Removal And Suspension Of Firefighter/Paramedics:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code, all full time, sworn
firefighter/paramedics shall be appointed by the board of fire and police
commissioners 1 . The board of fire and police commissioners may, at any time,
remove from office or suspend any full time, sworn firefighter/paramedic.
      1.   Abolishment Of Position Of Full Time Firefighter/Paramedic: As of
December 31, 1998, notwithstanding any other provisions of this code, all
filled and unfilled positions of sworn, full time firefighter/paramedics are
hereby abolished. No new full time firefighter/paramedics shall be appointed by
the board of fire and police commissioners and no action in regard to the
process of applications, examinations or posting of eligibility lists for new
hires as sworn, full time firefighter/paramedics shall be performed by the
board of fire and police commissioners.
   C.   Powers And Duties Of Director: The director of fire and emergency
medical services shall have management control and responsibility of all
matters pertaining to the fire and emergency medical services group including
fire and emergency medical services, code enforcement and EMA, and shall:
      1.   Powers And Duties Generally: Be charged with the prevention of
fires, the protection of life and property against fire and the provision of
emergency medical services. He shall be responsible for the implementation,
administration and management of a proactive code enforcement program. He shall
recruit and maintain a viable paid on call firefighting force. He shall make
rules and regulations governing departmental operations and conduct of the
members of the department of fire and emergency medical services subject to the
review and approval by the village manager.
      2.   Command At Fires: If possible, attend all fires occurring in the
village, and in the case of his absence, the officer of the highest rank at the
fire scene shall take command of the department and direct the fire scene.
      3.   Investigation Of Fires: Investigate the causes of all fires as soon
as is practical following their occurrence, and shall make and keep a record of
their investigation and of the circumstances of each case.
      4.   Inspection Of Premises: Have the right to enter any building,
structure or premises, whether completed or in the course of construction, for
the purpose of determining whether such building, structure or premises has
been or is being constructed and maintained in accordance with the fire and
life safety regulations of the village.
      5.   Annual Report: On or before May 1 of each year, make an annual
report in writing to the corporate authorities through the village manager
concerning the state of the fire and emergency medical services group for the
preceding year, together with such statistics and suggestions in regard to the
requirements of the group as he may deem advisable.
   D.   Establishment Of Fire Prevention Bureau: The village shall staff and
maintain a fire prevention bureau consisting of a fire inspector or a fire
marshal, who shall work under the supervision of the director of fire and
emergency medical services and the village manager. Unless authorized by the
annual budget, the village shall not employ a fire marshal and a fire inspector
at the same time. The director, with the approval of the village manager, may
remove the designated fire inspector or fire marshal and designate a
replacement. The village personnel who work in the fire prevention bureau
perform almost exclusively administrative job duties and functions, and, as
part of their full time job description, the fire inspector does not perform
any fire protection duties typical of a firefighter and the fire marshal may at
times perform fire protection duties typical of a firefighter.
      1.   Establishment And Powers And Duties Of Fire Inspector: The fire
inspector shall perform such duties as required by the ordinances and codes of
the village and as directed by the director, or other department command
personnel. The fire inspector shall enforce the ordinances and codes of the
village and the national fire prevention and life safety codes, as adopted, and
may assist the director with the investigation of the causes of all fires. The
fire inspector shall have the power to inspect, issue citations, serve process
and arrest for violation, and shall have all other powers incidental to the
foregoing in order to enforce compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
and such other code provisions and ordinances dealing with fire prevention or
protection and the national fire prevention and life safety codes, as adopted.
      2.   Interdepartment Cooperation: The director of fire and emergency
medical services shall ensure prompt and efficient submission of reports
concerning building and related permits by the fire prevention bureau personnel
to the director of community development. In the instance of such permits, the
community development department shall be the responsible agency. The director
of community development shall ensure prompt and efficient submission of
reports concerning fire prevention, by duly appointed community development
department code inspectors, to the fire prevention bureau. In the instance of
such reports, the fire prevention bureau shall be the responsible agency.
   E.   Reinstatement And Powers And Duties Of Fire Marshal: The director of
fire and emergency medical services, with the approval of the village manager,
may employ a fire marshal, who shall work under the supervision of the director
and the village manager. The fire marshal shall:
      1.   Powers And Duties Generally: Perform such duties as required by the
ordinances and codes of the village and as directed by the director, or other
department command personnel. The fire marshal shall administer fire prevention
activities and all related recordkeeping for the department of fire and
emergency medical services. The fire marshal shall enforce the ordinances and
codes of the village and the national fire prevention and life safety codes, as
adopted, and may assist the director with the investigation of the causes of
all fires. The fire marshal shall have the power to inspect, issue citations,
serve process and arrest for violation, and shall have all other powers
incidental to the foregoing in order to enforce compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, and such other code provisions and ordinances dealing with
fire prevention or protection and the national fire prevention and life safety
codes, as adopted.
      2.   Fire And Emergency Medical Services: If available, respond with fire
and emergency medical services to emergency situations within the village and
in conjunction with mutual aid calls involving fire and emergency medical
services, and act as incident commander when ordered.
      3.   Training Activities: Assist the department of fire and emergency
medical services with training activities, records management systems
administration, and liaison with the office of the state fire marshal to
provide all mandated information.
      4.   Inspections: Coordinate and perform fire and life safety inspections
in all business, commercial, medical and education buildings, and prepare
inspection reports and enter information into databases for follow up and
statistics. (Ord. 16-2832, 3-28-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
1-9F-2: FIRE SUPPRESSION AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES:
   A.   Fire Suppression Forces: Fire suppression forces shall provide for the
effective response, extinguishment and investigation of fire incidents so as to
reduce fire loss and fire related injury.
   B.   Emergency Medical Services Personnel: Emergency medical services
personnel shall provide an effective emergency medical service system with
informed citizens, trained first responders, trained advanced life support and
basic life support response and transport coordinated with the local hospitals.
   C.   Rules And Regulations At Fires:
      1.   Prescribing Limits At Fires: The director or other officers in
command at any fire may prescribe limits in the vicinity of the fire within
which no persons, excepting those who reside therein, firefighters, police
officers, officers of the village and those admitted by any officer of the
department shall be permitted to go.
      2.   Removal Of Property: The director, or in his absence the officer in
charge, shall have power to cause the removal of any property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of said property from fire or to prevent
the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining properties.
      3.   Destruction Of Buildings: The director, or his designee, may direct
the members of the department to tear down and remove any building, structure
or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire and in case of
need may blow up or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection, during the process of a fire, for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the same.
   D.   Uniform And Badge: The director, subject to the approval of the village
manager, shall issue regulations under which the officers and other
firefighters of the department shall be required to wear an appropriate uniform
or badge by which, in case of fire or other emergency, the authority of such
officers and other firefighters in the department may be known.
   E.   Police Power Of Firefighters: The director or the other officers in
command and any member of the department shall have the power and authority
during the time of a fire to arrest any person suspected of causing a fire or
any person hindering, resisting or conducting himself in a disorderly manner or
refusing to obey any such firefighter while acting in the discharge of his
duties and, as soon as his duties in relation to the extinguishment of the fire
will permit, to take such person before the proper village officer to be dealt
with according to law. All firefighters shall, during such time, be severally
vested with the usual power and authority of police officers to command all
persons to assist them in the performance of such duty.
   F.   Residency Requirement For Full Time Firefighter/Paramedics (Suspended
As Of December 31, 1998):
      1.   Residency Requirement: Effective February 1, 1992, all newly
appointed, sworn, full time firefighter/paramedics shall live within five (5)
miles of the corporate limits of the village.
      2.   Residency Compliance: Probationary firefighter/paramedics hired
after May 1, 1992, need not live within the five (5) mile limit during the term
of their probationary status. However, within one year after the date of their
appointment to the position of a sworn firefighter/paramedic, they shall
establish residency within the five (5) mile limit.
      3.   Purpose: Said residency requirement is established for the purpose
of helping to ensure that all full time, sworn firefighter/paramedics will be
available for callback for emergencies with a minimum of delay.
      4.   Promotion: Notwithstanding the foregoing, any existing sworn, full
time firefighter/paramedics who are promoted in rank shall comply with said
residency requirement within one year from the effective date of said
promotion.
      5.   Residency Requirement Suspended: The residency requirement has been
suspended as of December 31, 1998, when the Village abolished all filled and
unfilled positions of sworn, full time firefighter/paramedics.
      6.   Contract Fire And EMS Personnel: There is no residency requirement
for contractual firefighter/paramedics employed by the Village.
   G.   Ambulance Fee:
      1.   Fee; Due Date: Any “resident” and “nonresident”, as hereafter
defined, who is provided with ambulance services or any of the below listed
emergency medical services by the Western Springs Department of Fire and
Emergency Medical Services shall pay to the Village the fees for such ambulance
services and emergency medical services rendered within or outside of the
corporate limits by the Western Springs Department of Fire and Emergency
Medical Services. These fees shall be paid within thirty (30) days of the
mailing or the delivery of an invoice issued by the Village or its billing
agent. (Ord. 13-2718, 5-20-2013)
      2.   Fees Enumerated: The fees, payable for each person served with
ambulance services or emergency medical services are as follows:
FEES FOR AMBULANCE SERVICES AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
 
                                          Resident Fees      Nonresident Fees
Ambulance service (basic life support     $1,999.00         $1,999.00  
services)
Ambulance service (advanced life support  $1,999.00         $1,999.00  
services #1)
Ambulance service (advanced life support  1,999.00          1,999.00   
services #2)
Extrication                               250.00            250.00     
Mileage charge (if treatment rendered and
transported, mileage will be calculated   20.00     per mile 20.00     per mile
on portal-to-portal basis)
 
The above fees shall be adjusted annually, effective January 1 of each year,
beginning in January 1, 2023, without further action or notice by the President
and Board of Trustees, pursuant to the fees set forth in the annual report
submitted for the previous year to the Illinois Department of Healthcare and
Family Services (HFS) and/or the federal centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services (CMS) reflecting the actual cost incurred for transport of residents
and non-residents. Each subsequent annual report and the adjusted fees for the
then-current calendar year shall be posted on the Village’s website (See,
https://wsprings.com/154/Emergency-Medical-Services).
When ambulance or emergency services are rendered by the Village of Western
Springs to residents, such persons shall not be billed for the remaining
charges which may exist once final payment has been received from all insurance
providers of the resident.
When ambulance or emergency services are rendered by the Village of Western
Springs to non-residents, such persons shall be billed for the remaining
charges which may exist once final payment has been received from all insurance
providers of the non-resident.
When ambulance or emergency services are rendered by another agency under a
mutual aid agreement or arrangement, the transport and service billing rates
and billing protocols of that other agency shall apply to residents and non-
residents.
      3.   Definitions: The following terms are defined, for purpose of this
section:
ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT SERVICES (ALS): An advanced level of pre-hospital and
inter-hospital emergency care and non-emergency medical services that includes
basic life support care, cardiac monitoring, cardiac defibrillation,
electrocardiography, intravenous therapy, administration of medications, drugs
and solutions, use of adjunctive medical devices, trauma care, and other
authorized techniques and procedures, as outlined in the advanced life support
national curriculum of the United States Department of Transportation and any
modifications to that curriculum specified in rules adopted by the Illinois
Department of Public Health pursuant to the Emergency Medical Services (EMS)
Systems Act 1 , as amended. This level of support is referred to in this
section as advanced life support services #1. Advanced life support services
#2, as used in this section, means the delivery of multiple sessions or
quantities of basic life support measures and invasive medical procedures
including intravenous therapy, cardiac monitoring, pacing and defibrillation,
administration of medication and solutions and use of ventilation devices.
BASIC LIFE SUPPORT SERVICES: A basic level of pre-hospital and inter-hospital
emergency care and non-emergency medical services that includes airway
management, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), control of shock and bleeding
and splinting of fractures, as outlined in the basic life support national
curriculum of the United States Department of Transportation and any
modifications to that curriculum specified in rules adopted by the Illinois
Department of Public Health pursuant to the Emergency Medical Services (EMS)
Systems Act 2 , as amended.
EXTRICATION: When one or more members of the Fire Department are required to
use hydraulic, gas powered, electric powered, air powered or other specialized
rescue equipment to remove a person from a vehicle or other structure.
NONRESIDENT: Any individual who does not reside or maintain his or her domicile
within the corporate limits of the Village.
RESIDENT: Any individual who resides or maintains his or her domicile within
the corporate limits of the Village.
      4.   Billing: The invoice that is sent to each person charged for
ambulance services and emergency medical services shall state that if the
person has insurance coverage to pay for the ambulance services and/or
emergency medical services for which he or she is being charged or is covered
by Medicaid or Medicare, then that person should submit a claim for the cost of
ambulance services and/or the emergency medical services received to the
appropriate insurance company, Medicaid, or Medicare. The Village reserves the
right to terminate the billing cycle. In the event any person who received
ambulance services from the Village receives compensation from a third party
which is allocable to the ambulance service fee, such compensation shall be
promptly forwarded by said person to the Village. Under no circumstances shall
any term or provision of this section adversely affect the rights of the
Village as set forth in the Illinois Health Care Services Lien Act, 770
Illinois Compiled Statutes 23/1 et seq., as amended, or any other similar
statute. (Ord. 17-2881, 3-27-2017)
      5.   Right To Waive Fee: The Village Manager reserves the right to waive
the ambulance services fee and/or the emergency medical services fees, or any
portion thereof.
   H.   Reimbursement For Costs Incurred In The Abatement Of Hazardous
Materials Incidents:
      1.   Responsibility For Costs: Any recipient of any hazardous materials
response by the Village shall be responsible for reimbursing the Village for
the extraordinary costs and expenses of the Village, including, but not limited
to, overtime labor and outside consulting or contracting costs, extraordinary
administrative, equipment and materials costs, and all disposal costs as a
result of said hazardous materials response. For purposes of this subsection,
“extraordinary costs and expenses” shall also include the actual costs and
expenses of any other municipal government or fire protection district
rendering hazardous material aid and response to the Western Springs Fire
Department.
      2.   Bill For Costs: Upon completion of a hazardous materials response,
the Village shall tender an itemized, written bill to the recipient which sets
forth the extraordinary costs and expenses relative to said hazardous materials
response.
      3.   Definitions: For purposes of this subsection, the following words
and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE: Any response by the Village, alone or in
conjunction with any other municipal fire departments or fire protection
districts rendering aid to the Village in relation to said response, in regard
to an incident involving the spilling, leaking or escape of any hazardous
substance from any container intended for the storage or transportation of said
hazardous substance, or in regard to any fire or explosion involving a
hazardous substance.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE: As defined in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.215;
except, that petroleum products and natural gas shall also be considered
hazardous substances for purposes of this subsection.
RECIPIENT OF A HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE: The owner(s) and/or tenant(s) of a
building, structure, real property or personal property to which or for which
the hazardous materials response has taken place. (Ord. 13-2718, 5-20-2013;
amd. Ord. 22-3095, 8-15-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. 210 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
2 1. 210 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
1-9F-3: TRAINING AND PUBLIC EDUCATION:
   A.   Participation In Illinois Fire Protection Training Act: The Village
hereby elects to participate in the programs provided for in the Illinois Fire
Protection Training Act 1  (Act).
   B.   Certified Firefighter: Before an individual may commence regular
employment as a firefighter, as defined as successfully completing the
probationary period as outlined in the Village's "Personnel Policy Manual", the
individual must have been certified by the Illinois State Fire Marshal as a
firefighter II and as having successfully completed an approved training
course, as provided in the Act. (Ord. 13-2718, 5-20-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 740/1 et seq.
1-9F-4: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (EMA):
The EMA Director shall be responsible for the organization, administration and
operation of the EMA as provided by statute and chapter 10 of this title. (Ord.
13-2718, 5-20-2013)
ARTICLE G. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SERVICES GROUP
SECTION:
1-9G-1: Code Enforcement Department
1-9G-1: CODE ENFORCEMENT DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Duties Generally: The code enforcement department shall be managed by a
director of community development who shall direct the code enforcement of the
village and be responsible for enforcement and maintenance of plumbing,
building, electrical, fire, health and safety codes of the village. In
addition, the department shall consist of any such additional personnel as
shall be deemed necessary from time to time to provide the services required of
the department, as allowed within the fiscal year budget or upon approval of
the village manager. The director, or his designee or other code enforcement
personnel acting under his direction, shall have the following authority and
such other powers as provided for under applicable state law and shall perform
the following duties and such other duties as directed by the village manager:
      1.   Permits: Issue all permits for and inspect the work done under the
provisions of plumbing, building, electrical, fire, health and safety codes of
the village. No building or structure shall be erected, altered, repaired or
demolished without first procuring from the department of code enforcement a
permit to do so, as more fully provided in the building regulations.
      2.   Inspections; Entry Powers: Designate competent building, electrical,
health and plumbing inspectors to assist in the enforcement and maintenance of
all codes. The director and his duly authorized agents and inspectors shall
have the right to enter any building, whether completed or in the process of
construction, alteration or repair, for the purpose of determining whether the
same is being constructed, altered, repaired or used in accordance with state
law and this code. Refusal by the owner or person in charge or possession of
such building or structure to permit such entry shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      3.   Stop Work Orders: Have power to stop work on any building or
structure when such work is being done without a permit or is being done in
violation of any provision of state law or of this code, or of any ordinance or
order of the board of trustees. Such stop order shall specify the conditions
upon which work may be permitted to proceed. Failure to obey such stop order by
any person owning or in possession or charge of such building or structure
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      4.   Interdepartment Cooperation: The director of community development
shall ensure prompt and efficient submission of reports concerning fire
prevention, by duly appointed community development department code inspectors,
to the fire prevention bureau. In the instance of such reports, the fire
prevention bureau shall be the responsible agency. The director of fire and
emergency medical services shall ensure prompt and efficient submission of
reports concerning building and related permits by the fire prevention bureau
to the director of community development. In the instance of such permits, the
community development department shall be the responsible agency.
      5.   Other Duties:
         a.   To coordinate processes relating to land use planning and
implementation, business recruitment and retention, community events and
programs promoting economic development.
         b.   To process development and zoning applications.
         c.   To enforce all zoning and building codes of the village,
including the investigation, issuance of citations and pursuit of enforcement
actions in regard to all zoning and building code compliance matters.
         d.   To keep such records and make such reports concerning the
activities of the department as may be required by statute or ordinance, and to
perform such other functions, duties, and responsibilities as assigned by the
village manager.
         e.   To administer the Property Improvement Grant Program as approved
by the Village Board from time to time, including exercising final approval of
those grants determined to be eligible and under the threshold of the financial
authority approved by the Village Board in its adoption of the Property
Improvement Grant Program.
   B.   Revocation Of Permits: The director may revoke the permit for the
erection, alteration, repair or demolition of any building or structure if the
owner or other person in possession or charge of the same shall refuse to
comply with the conditions of any stop order. (Ord. 13-2718, 5-20-2013; amd.
Ord. 24-3161, 1-22-2024)
ARTICLE H. ENGINEERING GROUP
SECTION:
1-9H-1: Engineering Group (Department Of Engineering Services)
1-9H-2: Duties Of Director Of Engineering (Village Engineer)
1-9H-1: ENGINEERING GROUP (DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING SERVICES):
The engineering group shall also be referred to as the department of
engineering services, which shall consist of a director of engineering and such
department heads, superintendents and employees as the village manager shall
authorize and hire, subject to the budgetary allowances of the corporate
authorities of the village. (Ord. 20-3007, 6-22-2020)
1-9H-2: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF ENGINEERING (VILLAGE ENGINEER):
The director of engineering (or village engineer) shall:
   A.   Management Responsibility And Control: Have management responsibility
and control over all matters pertaining to the department of engineering
services, including the supervision of all personnel, the provision of all
services and the management of all budgetary programs, subject to direction
from the village manager.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Advise the president and board of trustees, the village manager, and
village officials on all engineering matters and other village related matters
referred to him/her by the president and board of trustees or the village
manager or as required by applicable laws, ordinances and regulations,
including this code.
      2.   Perform such duties, including but not limited to preparation of
annual department of engineering budget and other project budgets, contract
bidding documents, engineering plans and specifications, grant applications and
other documents related to projects within or benefitting the village, work on
floodplain and storm water management matters, and performance of inspections
of public and private projects, as are assigned to him/her by the village
manager or as required by applicable laws, ordinances and regulations,
including this code, and as set forth in any employment agreement and in any
village-prepared job description.
      3.   Prepare and deliver reports regarding public improvements, repairs
of streets, bridges and sidewalks, or such other all engineering matters and
other village related matters as the village manager may request, and provide
recommendations and proposals to the president and board of trustees or the
village manager regarding the same, as shall in his/her judgment seem best and
proper.
      4.   Prepare, review, maintain and update accurate maps, plats and
records of all public works, lands or property owned by the village, including
all plats of subdivision, resubdivision, consolidation and annexation plats
submitted to the village for conformance with this code and other village
ordinances, plans and policies.
   C.   Cooperation With Other Directors: Work cooperatively with other village
directors, staff members and consultants on all engineering matters, code or
policy enforcement matters, and other village related matters referred to him/
her by the village manager or as required by applicable laws, ordinances and
regulations, including this code.
   D.   Technical Consultants: Supervise the work of any outside architects,
engineers or engineering consultants or contractors or technical consultants
hired or employed by the village regarding engineering matters.
   E.   Title: The director of engineering shall also be known as and referred
to within this code and any contracts, agreements, policies and other documents
of the village as the "Village Engineer." (Ord. 20-3007, 6-22-2020)
CHAPTER 10
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Creation; Membership
1-10-2: Director
1-10-3: Functions
1-10-4: Service As Mobile Support Team
1-10-5: Agreements With Other Municipalities
1-10-6: Emergency Action
1-10-7: Compensation
1-10-8: Reimbursement By State
1-10-9: Purchases And Expenditures
1-10-10: Oath
1-10-11: Office
1-10-12: Appropriation; Levy Of Taxes
1-10-1: CREATION; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created the Western Springs emergency
management agency (EMA) to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or
damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other
hostile action, or from natural or manmade disaster, in accordance with "the
Illinois emergency management agency act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3305 et
seq., as amended".
   B.   Membership: This EMA shall consist of the director and such other
personnel as deemed expedient and necessary to carry out the duties of this
chapter. This staff includes emergency management volunteer staff. (Ord. 13-
2711, 2-25-2013)
1-10-2: DIRECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: The director shall be appointed by the village manager and
shall serve until such time as a successor is appointed, unless he or she
resigns or is removed. Upon resignation or removal by the village manager, the
position shall remain vacant until filled by appointment. The village manager
may remove the director at any time and for any reason.
   B.   Duties: The director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, training and operation of the EMA, subject to the
direction and control of the village manager as provided by statute. The
members of EMA shall take direction from the village manager and the director,
or their designees, or any other authorized person who is in the line of
emergency interim succession.
   C.   Vacancy In Office: In the event of the absence, resignation, death or
inability to serve as the director, the village manager, or any person
designated by him or her, shall act as director until a new appointment is made
as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-10-3: FUNCTIONS:
The EMA shall serve as the lead agency and coordinate the response within the
village as shall be prescribed in and by the Illinois emergency management
agency (IEMA) and its "IEMA" plan and program prepared by the governor, and
such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the governor, and
in addition shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be
required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into pursuant to the
Illinois emergency management act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3305 et seq.,
as amended (the "state EMA act"). (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-10-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All members of the EMA may be designated as members of a mobile support team
created by the state director of IEMA. The leader of such mobile support team
shall be designated by the director. Any member of a mobile support team is a
municipal employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the governor or
the director of IEMA and shall receive the compensation and have the powers,
duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such
member who is not a paid officer or employee of the village while so serving
shall receive from the state such reasonable compensation as is or may be
provided by law. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-10-5: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER MUNICIPALITIES:
The director may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other municipalities,
political subdivisions and taxing districts, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the corporate authorities of the
participating municipalities, political subdivisions and taxing districts.
(Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-10-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from manmade or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the EMA to coordinate
the response with the municipal officials, the Cook County office of homeland
security and emergency management, the state EMA and with the governor in the
exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-10-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the EMA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if called
for training or deployment by the director or IEMA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training or deployment the same rate of pay as is attached to the
position held in the village. Members of the EMA who are not village employees
or officers shall receive compensation for such training or deployment time as
may be established by the village manager. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-10-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The village treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training or
deployment of members of the EMA, compensation for services and expenses of
members of a mobile support team while serving outside the village in response
to a call by the governor or state director of IEMA, as provided by law, and
any other reimbursement made by the state incident to EMA activities as
provided by law. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-10-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Purchases Or Contracts: The board of trustees may, on recommendation of
the director, after consultation with the village manager, if feasible,
authorize any contracts or any purchases necessary to place the village in a
position to combat effectively any disaster, and to protect the public health
and safety, protect property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in
the case of any manmade or natural disaster.
   B.   Authority Of Director: In the event of enemy caused or other disaster,
the director, after consultation with the village manager, or his/her designee,
if feasible, is authorized, on behalf of the village, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the "state EMA act". (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-10-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the EMA shall, before
entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the following oath, which shall
be filed with the director:
I,                  (state your name and title), do solemnly swear (or affirm)
that I will support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and the territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public
and private, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this
obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and
that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to
enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor
have I been a member of any political party or organization that advocates, the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the Western Springs
Emergency Management Agency, I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-10-11: OFFICE:
The village manager is authorized to designate a space in a village building,
or elsewhere in facilities under the jurisdiction of the village, to provide
the EMA with an office space. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
1-10-12: APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES:
The village president and board of trustees may make an appropriation for EMA
purposes in the manner provided by law, and may levy, in addition for EMA
purposes only, a tax not to exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars
($100.00) of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all
other taxes, as provided by the "state EMA act"; however, that amount
collectible under such levy shall in no event exceed twenty five cents ($0.25)
per capita. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
CHAPTER 11
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Inauguration Of Newly Elected Officers
1-11-1: INAUGURATION OF NEWLY ELECTED OFFICERS:
Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-15, the inauguration of
newly elected village officers shall occur at the second regular or special
meeting of the corporate authorities in the month of May following the
election. (Ord. 07-2435, 3-12-2007)
CHAPTER 12
VILLAGE SEAL
SECTION:
1-12-1: Description
1-12-2: Custody And Use
1-12-1: DESCRIPTION:
A seal, circular in form, with the words "Village of Western Springs" and "Cook
County" in the outer circle, the word "Incorporated" and the figure "1886" in
the inner circle, and the monogram "W.S." in the center, shall be the official
Seal of the Village. (1978 Code §
1-11-1; 1997 Code)
1-12-2: CUSTODY AND USE:
The Seal shall be and remain in the custody of the Village Clerk, to be used by
the Village President and the Village Clerk whenever required by law. (1978
Code § 1-11-2)
CHAPTER 13
CONTRACTS, PURCHASES AND FINANCIAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Fiscal Year
1-13-2: Finance Committee
1-13-3: Annual Budget And Budget Officer
1-13-4: Special Assessments
1-13-5: Payment Of Bills
1-13-6: Purchases And Purchasing Agent
1-13-7: Public Improvements
1-13-8: Contracts
1-13-9: Bids
1-13-10: Contractor's Bond
1-13-11: Conflict Of Interest
1-13-12: Acceptance Of Credit Card Payments
1-13-13: Travel Expense Policy
1-13-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the Village shall commence on April 1 of each year 1 . (1978
Code §
1-15-1)
 
Notes
1 1. As per ordinance 96-1980, effective January 1, 1998, the fiscal year for
  the Village shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31 of each year.
1-13-2: FINANCE COMMITTEE:
The Finance Committee shall:
   A.   Examine the annual budget prepared by the Village Manager and Budget
Officer, if separate individuals, and provide oversight for all matters
pertaining to the receipts and disbursements of the Village;
   B.   Assure that all investments of Village funds, insofar as such
investments may be permitted by provisions of this Village Code and the laws of
the State comply with the Village's investment policies;
   C.   Provide oversight for all transactions pertaining to the acquisition or
leasing of real property by the Village;
   D.   Provide oversight for the issuance and sale of the bonds and
obligations of the Village; and
   E.   Provide oversight for the preparation of the annual tax levy ordinance
of the Village. (1978 Code § 1-15-6; amd. 1997 Code)
1-13-3: ANNUAL BUDGET AND BUDGET OFFICER 1 :
   A.   Statutes Adopted: The Village hereby adopts 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-2-9.1 through and including 5/8-2-9.10, providing for an annual
Municipal budget in lieu of the passage of an annual appropriation ordinance.
   B.   Budget Officer:
      1.   Appointment: The Village President with the approval of the Board of
Trustees, shall appoint a Budget Officer who shall have the powers, duties and
responsibilities enumerated in the above sections of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes as they are now, or may hereafter be amended.
      2.   Bond: The Budget Officer shall execute a bond as provided by section
1-8-5 of this title, or such other sum as may be required by statute. (1978
Code §
1-15-2)
      3.   Duties: The Budget Officer shall compile a budget pursuant to the
above sections of the Illinois Compiled Statutes as they are now, or may
hereafter be amended, containing estimates of the revenues available before the
beginning of the fiscal year to which it applies, together with recommended
expenditures for the Municipality and all of its boards, commissions and
departments, with said budget being adopted by the Board of Trustees prior to
April 1 of each fiscal year. (1978 Code §
1-15-2; amd. 1997 Code)
      4.   Removal From Office: The Budget Officer may be removed for cause at
any time by the President and Board of Trustees voting jointly. The action of
the President and Board of Trustees in removing the Budget Officer shall be
final.
   C.   Preliminary Budget: Copies of the preliminary annual budget shall be
made available for public inspection in typewritten form in the Office of the
Village Clerk for at least ten (10) days prior to the passage of the annual
budget, and not less than one week after the budget is available for
inspection, and prior to final action on the budget, at least one public
hearing shall be held on the budget by the President and Board of Trustees.
Notice of this hearing shall be given by publication in a newspaper having
general circulation in the Village at least one week prior to the time of the
hearing. (1978 Code §
1-15-2)
   D.   Budget Revisions:
      1.   Authority: The Board of Trustees may delegate authority to the
Village Manager, Budget Officer or Director of Finance to delete, add to, or
change items previously budgeted to the department, board or commission,
subject to such limitation or requirement for prior approval by the Village
Manager as the Board of Trustees, upon a two-thirds (2/3) vote of members, may
establish. The Village Manager may revise or alter the annual budget by
changing line items in the same category without Board approval. (1978 Code §
1-15-2; amd. 1997 Code)
      2.   Vote On Revisions: The annual budget may be revised by a vote of
two-thirds (2/3) of the Board of Trustees by deleting, adding to or changing
budgeted items.
      3.   Restrictions On Revisions: No revision of the budget items shall be
made which result in increasing the total budget unless funds are available to
effectuate the purpose of the revision. (1978 Code §
1-15-2)
      4.   Emergency Budget Revisions; Borrowing Money:
         a.   Notwithstanding the limitation of this section, the President and
Board of Trustees, by two-thirds (2/3) vote, may make emergency revisions to
the annual budget for: 1) improvements or restorations made necessary by any
casualty or accident; 2) to meet any unforeseen emergency requiring immediate
action to prevent the spread of disease or avoid imminent danger to persons or
property.
         b.   For this purpose, the President and Board of Trustees, by a like
vote, may authorize the President and the Finance Committee to borrow the
amount of money necessary therefor for a space of time not extending beyond the
close of the next fiscal year. The sum so borrowed and the interest thereon
shall be added to and included in the amount authorized to be raised in the
next general tax levy.
         c.   Should any judgment be obtained against the Village, the
President and the Finance Committee, under sanction of the Board of Trustees,
may borrow a sufficient amount to pay the same for a space of time expiring not
later than the close of the next fiscal year, which sum and interest shall, in
like manner, be added to and included in the amount authorized to be raised in
the general tax levy of the next year. (1978 Code §
1-15-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-9A-3A4 of this title.
1-13-4: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Funds; Applications: All monies received on any special assessment
shall be held by the Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment
for the improvement for which the assessment was made, and said money shall be
used for no other purpose whatsoever, unless to reimburse the Village for money
expended for such improvement.
   B.   Interest; Application: The Treasurer is hereby directed to segregate
and to keep in an account to be known as "interest from special assessment
funds", all money received by the Village by way of interest upon special
assessment funds in its hands which have been deposited in a bank, and all
monies hereafter accumulated in said account shall be used in retiring
outstanding special assessment vouchers and bonds that may be delinquent by
reason of any deficiency in the fund out of which such vouchers or bonds are to
be paid, or for paying interest or deficiency in interest upon outstanding
vouchers or bonds where there is a deficiency in the fund out of which interest
should be paid. (1978 Code § 1-15-4)
1-13-5: PAYMENT OF BILLS:
Every bill against the Village shall first be submitted to the Village Manager
or his designee, who shall examine it, and, if he finds it correct, shall
approve it in writing. The Board of Trustees shall receive at their regular
monthly meeting a list of all bills approved by the Village Manager, which have
been paid or are to be paid since the prior regular meeting, showing name of
vendor, purpose, amount and fund to which the disbursement is chargeable. Upon
reading of the bills, except those disallowed, the Board of Trustees will
approve action of the Village Treasurer in paying obligations against the
Village. The provisions of this section shall apply to all bills and expenses
incurred by the Village except salaries and wages of Village officers and
employees; these shall be paid by the Treasurer semi-monthly in accordance with
the salary and wage schedules approved from time to time by the Board of
Trustees. (1978 Code § 1-15-5; amd. 1997 Code)
1-13-6: PURCHASES AND PURCHASING AGENT:
   A.   Purchasing Agent: The Village Manager shall be the Purchasing Agent for
the Village. He shall have the authority and itshall be his duty, when so
authorized by the Board of Trustees, to purchase or contract for all supplies,
materials, equipment and contractual services needed by the Village or any
department, board or officer thereof. (1978 Code § 1-15-7)
   B.   Purchases:
         1.   Purchases Not Exceeding Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars: The Village
Manager may, in their discretion, without previous authorization by the Board
of Trustees, purchase commodities and supplies, services or work to be done
costing not more than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) where such
expenditures are included in the annual budget. Said authorization shall be
reduced to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when such expenditures have not
been included in the annual budget.
         2.   Emergency Purchases: In cases of emergency arising from
unforeseen causes, including delays by contractors, delays in transportation or
unanticipated volume of work, which emergency requires immediate purchase of
commodities or contractual service, the Village Manager may secure in the open
market at the lowest obtainable price any commodities or contractual services
costing not more than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) and place an
order therefor, subject to confirmation by the Board of Trustees.
         3.   Purchases And Contracts Exceeding Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars:
All purchase orders or contracts for supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services, and all public improvement contracts which are not to be
paid for by special assessment or special taxation, involving the expenditure
of more than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), shall be let to the
lowest responsible bidder after advertisement for bids as provided in this
chapter, or without advertising for bids if so authorized by a vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of all of the Trustees elected, and shall be approved by the
President and countersigned by the Village Manager. This competitive bidding
procurement process of this Subsection shall not apply to: (a) any contract by
the Village with the federal government or any agency thereof pursuant to 65
ILCS 5/8-9-1 (Purchasing and Public Works Contracts in Contracts In
Municipalities Of Less Than 500,000 Provision of the Illinois Municipal Code);
and (b) professional services contracts entered into pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-1-
7 (Contracting Provision of the Illinois Municipal Code) and pursuant to 50
ILCS 510 (Qualified Based Selection Process for Architects, Engineers and
Surveyors of the Local Government Professional Services Selection Act).
   C.   Use of Municipal Purchasing Cards: The Village Board of Trustees has
adopted a written policy governing the control and use of municipal purchasing
cards by Village employees and officials as of November 27, 2023. The policy
governs the use of municipal purchasing cards issued to the Village, including
but not limited to cardholder limits, documentations, card restrictions,
reconciliation and payment, disputes, reporting requirements in terms of
municipal purchasing cards usage to the Finance Department, and policy
violations and penalties. The policy prohibits purchases that are for a non-
Village business-related expense or for private personal use or benefit.
Village municipal purchasing cards shall only be used in conformance with the
adopted policy, a copy of which is available from the Village Clerk's Office.
Non-financial amendments to the policy may be made in writing from time to time
by the Village Manager. Amendments to the financial terms of the policy may be
amended from time to time by action of the Village Board of Trustees at an open
public meeting. (1978 Code § 1-15-8; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 89-1776, 9-25-1989;
Ord. 23-3151, 11-27-2023; Ord. 24-3161, 1-22-2024; Ord. 24-3195, 6-17-2024)
1-13-7: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every contract for work or public improvement to be paid for in whole or in
part by special assessment or by special taxation, when the expense thereof
will exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) shall be let to the lowest
responsible bidder after advertisement for bids as provided in this chapter.
Such contract shall be approved by the President of the Board of Local
Improvements. (Ord. 81-1609, 11-17-1981; amd. Ord. 89-1776, 9-25-1989)
1-13-8: CONTRACTS:
   All contracts for work, materials, services, or supplies in an amount equal
to or less than the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) shall be
executed in writing in duplicate and shall be signed by the Village Manager, or
their designee, and all such contracts exceeding the sum of twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) shall be executed in writing in duplicate and
shall be signed by the President, by the Village Clerk on the part of the
Village, and by the contractor. Non-financial contracts, agreements and other
similar documents (e.g. memoranda of understanding for intergovernmental
cooperation activities, training participation agreements for Village
personnel) containing indemnification or other binding provisions that create
obligations for the Village, which have been reviewed and approved by the
Village Attorney, may be approved and signed by the Village Manager, subject to
ratification by the Village Board at a subsequent Village Board meeting. One
executed copy shall be filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and the other
shall be delivered to the contractors. All contracts shall be in the name of
the Village.
(Ord. 81-1609, 11-17-1981; amd. Ord. 89-1776, 9-25-1989; 1997 Code; Ord. 24-
3195, 6-17-2024; Ord. 25-3251, 3-24-2025)
1-13-9: BIDS:
   A.   Advertisement For Bids:
      1.   When bids are advertised pursuant to this subsection, the Village
Manager shall cause a call for such bids to be published at least once, not
less than ten (10) days before the date for opening such bids, in some
newspaper of general circulation in the Village.
      2.   When bids are advertised pursuant to this subsection, the Board of
Local Improvements shall cause notice thereof to be published at least two (2)
successive times, not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15)
days in advance of the date for opening of bids, in some newspaper of general
circulation in the Village and designated in an order entered in its records.
(Ord. 81-1609, 11-17-1981; amd. 1997 Code)
      3.   Where the advertisement is for a public improvement, the published
notice need give only a general description of the work to be done or the
materials to be furnished, but detailed drawings, plans, profiles and
specifications, as prescribed by the ordinances ordering such improvement,
shall be made and placed on file in the Office of the Clerk prior to the first
publication of such advertisement and shall at all times be open to public
inspection.
      4.   In all advertisements the right to reject any or all bids shall be
expressly reserved. (Ord. 81-1609, 11-17-1981)
   B.   Requisites For Bids: In all cases bids for amounts aggregating more
than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) shall be sealed bids, addressed
to the President and Board of Trustees or to the Board of Local Improvements,
as the case may be. Each bid shall be accompanied by a deposit as provided in
subsection D of this section. For public works or public improvements, bids may
be for the work as a whole or for specified portions thereof, and shall be
delivered to the Board of Local Improvements. (Ord. 81-1609, 11-17-1981; amd.
Ord. 89-1776, 9-25-1989)
   C.   Opening Bids: Bids shall be opened and examined by the Village Clerk's
Office, in open meeting, at the time and place fixed in the public notice and
be immediately forwarded to the President and Board of Trustees or to the Board
of Local Improvements at their next regular meeting.
   D.   Deposits; Forfeiture:
      1.   Deposits accompanying bids shall be in cash or by certified check
upon a responsible bank operating in the Village or elsewhere in Illinois.
Deposits made pursuant to this subsection shall be in the amount fixed in the
advertisement, not exceeding ten percent (10%) of the amount bid. Checks, if
used, shall be made payable to order of the Village.
      2.   Deposits made pursuant to section
1-13-8 of this chapter shall be in the amount named in the advertisement, not
less than ten percent (10%) of the aggregate amount bid; checks, if used, shall
be made payable to the order of the Village. Deposits shall be forfeited to the
Village if the bidder, in case the contract shall be awarded to him, shall
neglect or refuse to enter into such contract and to give bond, as hereinafter
required, to perform the work or furnish the materials or supplies for the
price stated in his bid and according to the plans and specifications. (Ord.
81-1609, 11-17-1981; amd. Ord. 89-1776, 9-25-1989; 1997 Code; Ord. 89-1776, 9-
25-1989)
1-13-10: CONTRACTOR'S BOND 1 :
   A.   Sureties: Whenever any work or improvement is let by contract to any
person, the officers of the Village letting the same shall, in all cases, take
a bond from such person, with a corporate surety company as surety, in such
amount as shall not only be adequate to insure the performance of the work in
the time and manner required in such contract, but also to indemnify and save
harmless the said Village against all liabilities, judgments, costs and
expenses which may in any way accrue against the Village in consequence of
granting such contract, or which may in any way result from the negligence or
misfeasance of such person, his agents or employees.
   B.   Execution: All contractors' bonds taken shall be executed in duplicate
and the Village shall be the obligee. One executed copy of such bond and all
statements of financial responsibility shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
(1978 Code § 1-15-12; amd. 1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  3-4-7A of this Code.
1-13-11: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No officer or employee of the Village shall be interested directly or
indirectly in any contract made and entered into under the provisions of this
chapter for any work to be done or any materials to be furnished, nor in the
purchase of any real estate or other property belonging to the Village, or
which shall be sold for taxes or assessments or by virtue of legal process at
the suit of the Village, and all contracts so made in which such officer or
employee shall be so interested may, at the option of the Village, be declared
unlawful and void and of no binding effect whatsoever, and such officer or
employee interested in any such contract shall thereby forfeit his office and
be removed therefrom on proof of his delinquency. (1978 Code § 1-15-13)
1-13-12: ACCEPTANCE OF CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS:
   A.   Incorporation: The Village incorporates by reference the provisions of
the Illinois Local Governmental Acceptance of Credit Cards Act 1  (the "Act"),
as amended, into this section. The Corporate Authorities of the Village held a
public hearing on September 19, 2016, as required by the Act, for the purpose
of making a determination of whether to enact rules to allow the Village to
accept payment by credit cards for all "authorized obligations" (as defined in
the Act), such as any fine, fee, charge, tax, or cost imposed by, owing to, or
collected by the Village.
   B.   Definition Of Credit Card: The Act defines "credit card" as "an
instrument or device, whether known as a credit card, bank card, charge card,
debit card, automated teller machine card, secured credit card, smart card,
electronic purse, prepaid card, affinity card, or by any other name, issued
with or without fee by an issuer for the use of the holder to obtain credit,
money, goods, services, or anything else of value".
   C.   Policy Regarding Acceptance Of Credit Cards: The Village Administrative
Policy Regarding Acceptance of Payments by Credit Cards (the "policy") (a copy
of which was attached as Exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein and made a
part thereof) and any future amendments to the policy are incorporated into
this section by reference without further action by the Corporate Authorities
of the Village. The policy contains the rules governing the manner of
acceptance of payments by credit cards for all "authorized obligations" (as
defined in the Act), such as any fine, fee, charge, tax, or cost imposed by,
owing to, or collected by the Village. The Village Manager is authorized to
approve and enact any amendments to the policy that are consistent with or
necessary to comply with the Act. A copy of the policy is available from the
Village Clerk's Office upon request. (Ord. 16-2847, 9-19-2016)
 
Notes
1 2. 50 ILCS 345/1 et seq.
1-13-13: TRAVEL EXPENSE POLICY:
   A.   Incorporation: The Village incorporates by reference the provisions of
the Illinois Local Government Travel Expense Control Act 1  (the "Act"), as
amended, into this section.
   B.   Travel Expense Policy: The Travel Expense Policy for the Village of
Western Springs Employees and Officials (the "policy") (a copy of which was
attached as Exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein and made a part thereof)
and any future amendments to the policy are incorporated into this section by
reference. Any amendments to the policy shall be approved by adoption of an
ordinance by the Corporate Authorities of the Village. The policy contains the
rules governing the reimbursement of travel expenses incurred by Village
employees and officials that are eligible for reimbursement under the terms of
the Act. A copy of the policy is available from the Village Clerk's Office upon
request. (Ord. 17-2870, 2-27-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 150/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 14
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
1-14-1: Adoption
1-14-2: Regulations Applicable
1-14-1: ADOPTION:
The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state officials and
employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter
referred to as the "act" in this chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the officers and employees of the village to the extent
required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 04-2292, 5-10-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10-40.
1-14-2: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE:
The following regulations of the state officials and employees ethics act apply
to the officers and employees of the village:
   A.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   B.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the act is hereby prohibited.
   C.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   D.   For purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   E.   The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   F.   This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   G.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this chapter shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this chapter by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   H.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois supreme court.
   I.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 04-2292, 5-10-2004)
CHAPTER 15
BUSINESS DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
1-15-1: Findings
1-15-2: Designation
1-15-3: Powers
1-15-1: FINDINGS:
Pursuant to public hearings held on August 8, 2000, and September 11, 2000, the
president and board of trustees hereby find that it is essential to the
economic and social welfare of the village that business districts be
maintained and revitalized by assuring opportunities for development or
redevelopment and by attracting sound and stable commercial growth, thereby
enhancing the tax base of the village and employment opportunities within the
village. (Ord. 00-2139, 9-11-2000)
1-15-2: DESIGNATION:
The president and board of trustees may designate specific areas of the village
as business districts when they find that such a designation will facilitate
the maintenance and revitalization of the area in accordance with section
1-15-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 00-2139, 9-11-2000)
1-15-3: POWERS:
In carrying out development or redevelopment within a designated business
district, the president and board shall have those powers set forth in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.3-3, as amended. In addition, the president
and board of trustees may exercise such other powers to facilitate development
and redevelopment within a designated business district as deemed necessary
pursuant to the intergovernmental cooperation powers as provided by article
VII, section 10(a) of the 1970 Illinois constitution. (Ord. 00-2139, 9-11-2000)
CHAPTER 16
LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAXPAYERS' BILL OF RIGHTS
SECTION:
1-16-1: Scope; Application
1-16-2: Definitions
1-16-3: Notices
1-16-4: Payment; Interest And Penalties
1-16-5: Credits And Refunds
1-16-6: Audit Procedures
1-16-7: Determination Of Tax Liability
1-16-8: Appeal And Hearing
1-16-9: Installment Contracts
1-16-10: Voluntary Disclosure
1-16-11: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-16-12: Liens
1-16-13: Criminal Penalties
1-16-1: SCOPE; APPLICATION:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village's procedures in
connection with the collection and administration of all of the village's
locally imposed and administered taxes. This chapter shall be liberally
construed and administered to supplement all of the village's tax ordinances.
To the extent that any village tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 00-
2154, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
The words or terms set forth below shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act".
CODE: The Western Springs municipal code of 1997, as amended.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The president and board of trustees of the village of
Western Springs.
HEARING OFFICER: The chairman of the village of Western Springs' finance
committee, or his or her designee, who shall have the authority to conduct
hearings and to issue final determinations regarding the collection of all
locally imposed and administered taxes.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR OR AUDITOR: The village treasurer or the village
treasurer's designee, who is charged with the administration and collection of
the locally imposed and administered taxes. The local tax administrator shall
have the authority to implement the terms of this chapter to give full effect
to this chapter.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Any pecuniary burden imposed by
the village on individuals or entities to support the village's municipal
government operations that is not a permit or other fee, is not collected or
administered by a department or agency of the state of Illinois, or is not a
tax on real property under the Illinois property tax code 1 , including, but
not limited to, any of the following taxes that may now, or in the future, be
collected or administered by this village:
E-911 tax 2
Electric utility tax 3
Foreign fire insurance tax 4
Gas utility tax 5
Municipal automobile rental occupation tax 6
Municipal automobile rental use tax 7
Simplified municipal telecommunications tax 8
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes, this term includes the business or
entity required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to
the village.
VILLAGE: The village of Western Springs, Illinois. (Ord. 00-2154, 12-18-2000,
eff. 1-1-2001; amd. Ord. 07-2466, 11-19-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.
2 2. See section
  3-2-4 of this code.
3 3. See section
  3-2-6 of this code.
4 4. See section
  3-4-9 of this code.
5 5. See section
  3-2-1 of this code.
6 6. See section
  3-2-2 of this code.
7 7. See section
  3-2-3 of this code.
8 8. See section
  3-2-5 of this code.
1-16-3: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing and mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days or
delivered not less than five (5) calendar days prior to the day fixed for any
applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local tax
administrator/hearing officer. Any notice may be sent by the local tax
administrator/hearing officer as follows:
   A.   First class United States mail or express mail or overnight mail,
addressed to the persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 00-2154, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-16-4: PAYMENT; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
Notwithstanding any provision in this code to the contrary, any payment or
remittance designated by a taxpayer as payment of a particular tax liability
shall be applied to that taxpayer's liabilities pertaining to the particular
tax as follows: a) first, to the interest accrued on outstanding tax
liabilities; b) second, to the outstanding tax liability; c) third, to any
penalties due on the outstanding tax liabilities; and d) fourth, to current tax
liabilities.
   A.   Late Payment: Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required
to be made to the village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered
late unless it is physically received by the village on or before the due date.
   B.   Interest On Overdue Payments: In the event a determination has been
made that a tax is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent,
the tax must be paid within the time frame otherwise indicated. Notwithstanding
any provision in this code to the contrary, any tax not paid on the date due
shall accrue interest at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the
amount due for each month or part of a month the tax remains unpaid.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, the following
penalties shall apply:
      1.   A late filing penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax due
shall be charged against any taxpayer whose tax payment is not made on or
before the date the tax is due.
      2.   A late payment penalty of five percent (5%) of the tax due shall be
charged against any taxpayer whose tax report or return is not filed on or
before the date said tax report or return is due.
      3.   A failure to file penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of the amount
of tax due for the period in which a tax report or return is required to be
filed shall be charged against any taxpayer who fails to file, before the date
that a determination of tax deficiency or tax liability is issued, a report or
return for that period.
      4.   The penalties set forth in subsections C1 and C2 of this section
shall not apply in the event the village imposes the penalty set forth in
subsection C3 of this section.
      5.   Any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file
penalty may be abated by the local tax administrator if reasonable cause for
nonpayment or failure to file is shown. (Ord. 00-2154, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-
2001)
1-16-5: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Notwithstanding any provision in this code to the contrary, taxpayers may, in
writing, claim a credit or refund for the payment of taxes, interest or
penalties paid in error for up to four (4) years after the end of the calendar
year in which payment in error was made. The village shall not grant a credit
or refund of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to
a person who has not paid the amounts directly to the village. The village
shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without written protest
at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and administered tax
is declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction.
However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the
taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the
time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   A.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator, in
writing, a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of tax at issue;
         b.   The tax period at issue;
         c.   The date of the tax payment at issue and a copy of the canceled
check or receipt for the payment; and
         d.   The taxpayer's calculation of the refund or credit, accompanied
by an amended or revised tax return, in connection with the claim.
      2.   Within forty five (45) days of the receipt by the local tax
administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator
shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, any refund or credit, the tax amounts paid in error shall be returned to
the taxpayer plus interest at the annual rate of five percent (5%); provided,
however, that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the
taxpayer owes any monies to the village until such obligation is fully
satisfied. (Ord. 00-2154, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-16-6: AUDIT PROCEDURES:
A request for a proposed audit in regard to any tax shall comply with the
notice requirements of this chapter. A notice of audit shall contain the
following information: a) the tax at issue; b) the time period of the audit;
and c) a brief description of the books and records to be made available for
the auditor.
   A.   Audit: Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours on the
date set forth in the notice, unless the taxpayer and the local tax
administrator agreed to some other convenient date and time. If the audit date
and time are not agreeable to the taxpayer, another date and time may be
requested by the taxpayer within forty five (45) days of the date of the
initially designated audit date, as approved in writing by the local tax
administrator, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the auditor.
   B.   Overpayments; Misdirected Payments: If an audit determines there has
been an overpayment of a tax, written notice of the amount of overpayment shall
be given to the taxpayer within forty five (45) days of the village's
determination of the amount of overpayment. In the event a tax payment was
submitted to the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax
administrator shall notify the taxpayer and the local governmental entity
imposing such tax.
   C.   Record Keeping; Duty Of Taxpayer: Every taxpayer shall keep accurate
books and records of the taxpayer's business or activities, including original
source documents and books of entry denoting the transactions which had given
rise or may have given rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All
books shall be kept in the English language and shall be subject to and
available for inspection by the village. It is the duty and responsibility of
every taxpayer to make available its books and records for audit inspections by
the village. If the taxpayer fails to provide the documents necessary for audit
within the time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax
determination and assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of
the best estimate of the taxpayer's tax liability. (Ord. 00-2154, 12-18-2000,
eff. 1-1-2001)
1-16-7: DETERMINATION OF TAX LIABILITY:
The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of
the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund, credit or provide any
tax still due and owing.
   A.   Collection Of Taxes: The local tax administrator shall send a notice of
determination and assessment of tax liability to a taxpayer by registered or
certified mail no more than four (4) years after the end of the calendar year
for which the tax return for the applicable period was filed or for the
calendar year in which the tax return for the applicable period was due,
whichever occurs later. In the event any tax return is not filed or if during
any four (4) year period for which a notice of tax determination and assessment
may be issued by the village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent
(75%) of the tax due, a notice of determination or assessment of tax liability
may be sent no more than six (6) years after the end of the calendar year in
which return for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in
which the return for the applicable period was filed. All notices of
determination or assessment of tax liability shall include the following
information:
      1.   The reason for and amount of the tax liability or assessment;
      2.   The procedures for appeal; and
      3.   Information regarding the right of the village to audit the
taxpayer's books and records for a particular time period and the obligations
of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and collection process.
   B.   Fraud: There shall be no time limitation on the village's ability to
collect a tax in the event a fraudulent tax return was filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 00-2154, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-16-8: APPEAL AND HEARING:
   A.   Protest; Petition For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice
from the local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment
may file with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for
hearing, setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The
taxpayer may request that the hearing officer conduct the hearing instead of
the local tax administrator. The written protest and petition for hearing must
be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five (45) days of
receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and assessment. If a
timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local tax
administrator or hearing officer shall select a date, time and place for
hearing that is within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written protest
and petition for hearing and shall give written notice of the hearing to the
taxpayer. If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day filing period, the tax determination, audit or assessment
shall become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
      1.   Extension Of Time: Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the
taxpayer and the full payment of the amount of contested tax liability plus
accrued interest due as of the due date of the tax, the local tax administrator
shall extend the forty five (45) day period of time for filing an appeal after
a determination of liability has been issued for up to an additional forty five
(45) day period.
   B.   Hearing: Whenever a taxpayer has filed a timely written protest and
petition for hearing under this section, the local tax administrator/hearing
officer shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal on the date scheduled by
the local tax administrator/hearing officer, unless the taxpayer requests and
is granted by the local tax administrator/hearing officer an extension of the
hearing to a later date convenient to all parties. No continuances shall be
granted except in cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary to protect
the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a
continuance. Any continuance granted by the local tax administrator/hearing
officer shall not extend the hearing date beyond forty five (45) days after the
initial set hearing date. At the hearing the local tax administrator/hearing
officer shall preside and shall hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant
to the tax determination, audit or assessment. The strict rules of evidence
applicable to judicial proceedings shall not apply at the hearing. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator/hearing officer shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer shall be provided with a copy of the written decision.
(Ord. 00-2154, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-16-9: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. Any installment contract
so entered shall not be canceled unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount
due and owing and then fails to cure the delinquency in the time period
provided for below. Upon written notice by the local tax administrator that the
payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the taxpayer shall have fifteen (15)
days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency
within the fifteen (15) day period or fails to demonstrate good faith in
restructuring the installment contract with the local administrator, the
installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the taxpayer
and any unpaid tax shall be immediately due and owing. (Ord. 00-2154, 12-18-
2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-16-10: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
A taxpayer who has not received a written notice of an audit, determination of
tax liability or assessment, may seek disclosure of tax liability by filing a
written application with the local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure
of the taxpayer's liability pertaining to a particular tax. A taxpayer filing
such an application must agree to pay, before the filing date of the
application, the amount of tax due plus one percent (1%) interest per month,
for all periods prior to the filing of the application, but not more than four
(4) years before the date of filing the application. Except for the amount of
tax and interest due under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary
disclosure request may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or
penalty for any period before the date the application was filed. If the
taxpayer incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the
taxpayer is liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the
underpaid tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of
the taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void.
The payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 00-2154, 12-18-
2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-16-11: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published in accordance with
the publishing requirements of state law 1 . The posting of a tax ordinance on
the internet shall satisfy the above publication requirements. Copies of all
tax ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the
village clerk's office. (Ord. 00-2154, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4.
1-16-12: LIENS:
In the first month of each calendar year, the local tax administrator shall
cause all liens filed against taxpayers for unpaid taxes to be reviewed. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord. 00-
2154, 12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
1-16-13: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Criminal penalties shall not be imposed on any taxpayer for noncompliance with
the provisions of a village tax unless the noncompliance is the result of
wilful or fraudulent disregard of the village tax ordinances. (Ord. 00-2154,
12-18-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
CHAPTER 17
INDEMNIFICATION
SECTION:
1-17-1: Indemnification Guidelines
1-17-2: Indemnification Of Village Officials
1-17-1: INDEMNIFICATION GUIDELINES:
   A.   The village board finds that it is the public policy of the state of
Illinois that members of governmental bodies shall not be liable in damages for
the exercise of discretion in determining policies. This public policy is set
forth in 745 Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/2-201 which provides as follows:
Except as otherwise provided by Statute, a public employee serving in a
position involving the determination of policy or the exercise of discretion is
not liable for an injury resulting from his act or omission in determining
policy when acting in the exercise of such discretion even though abused.
   B.   In light of subsection A of this section, if any claim or action not
covered by insurance is instituted against any elected or appointed village
official, employee or authorized volunteer in connection with any act or
omission in determining policy, the village shall, to the fullest extent
allowed by the law:
      1.   Appear and defend against the claim or action;
      2.   Indemnify the elected or appointed village official, employee or
authorized volunteer for his or her court costs and attorney fees incurred in
the defense of such claim or action;
      3.   Pay or indemnify the elected or appointed village official, employee
or authorized volunteer for a judgment based on such claim or action; and
      4.   Pay or indemnify the elected or appointed village official, employee
or authorized volunteer for a compromise or settlement of such claim or action,
provided that the settlement is approved by a majority of the members of the
board of trustees.
The term "elected or appointed village official" shall mean any former or
current village president, trustee or member of any village board, committee
and commission.
   C.   The foregoing indemnity shall not extend to any of the following:
      1.   Any liability, attorney fees or costs with respect to any matter in
which the elected or appointed village official, employee or authorized
volunteer is finally adjudged to be guilty of a criminal act; to the extent
that any criminal proceeding shall be pending at the time of indemnification or
any criminal proceeding shall thereafter be instituted, any indemnification
paid or promised shall be conditioned upon the termination of the criminal
proceeding without a finding of guilt;
      2.   Any liability or judgment against an elected or appointed village
official, employee or authorized volunteer which is payable to the village
itself or where the village was injured and the elected or appointed village
official, employee or authorized volunteer either obtained personal benefit or
financial gain as a result of his or her wrongful conduct;
      3.   Any liability, attorney fees or costs incurred as a result of a
village initiated or approved investigation into the misconduct of the elected
or appointed village official, employee or authorized volunteer;
      4.   Any liability, attorney fees or costs incurred as a result of the
elected or appointed village official's, employee's or authorized volunteer's
failure to reasonably cooperate or participate in the defense of any claim,
action, suit or proceeding with any person, party or entity; or
      5.   Any liability excluded by a written waiver from the elected or
appointed village official, employee or authorized volunteer. (Ord. 01-2188,
12-17-2001)
1-17-2: INDEMNIFICATION OF VILLAGE OFFICERS:
The village of Western Springs shall indemnify any village officer, who signs
any application form, agreement or contract on behalf of the village with the
village board's consent, for any personal liabilities arising out of the
document where personal liability is imposed or sought to be imposed on the
village officer for the village's failure to satisfy any of its financial
obligations under any such application form, agreement or contract or failure
to comply with any federal, state, county or local law or regulation relating
to any such application form, agreement or contract. The extent of and
limitations imposed on the indemnification provided for in this section shall
be governed by subsections
1-17-1B and C of this chapter. (Ord. 03-2222, 1-27-2003)
CHAPTER 18
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF CODE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
1-18-1: Creation Of Administrative Adjudication System
1-18-2: Jurisdiction
1-18-3: Code Hearing Department; Administrative Hearings Supervisor
1-18-4: Scope Of Authority Of Administrative Hearing Officers
1-18-5: Procedure
1-18-6: Administrative Hearings
1-18-7: Default
1-18-8: Enforcement Of Administrative Hearing Officer's Order
1-18-9: Election Of Remedies
1-18-1: CREATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEM:
   A.   Pursuant to division 2.2 of title 1 of the Illinois municipal code 1 ,
which authorizes nonhome rule municipalities to implement a system of
administrative adjudication for municipal code violations, there is created
within the department of fire and inspectional services a code hearing
department to implement an administrative adjudication system for charges of
violations of this code, as amended.
   B.   The village adopts division 2.2 of title 1 of the Illinois municipal
code 2 , as it may be amended from time to time. The adoption of division 2.2
of title 1 does not preclude the village from using other lawful methods to
enforce the provisions of this code. (Ord. 03-2258, 8-11-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1 et seq.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1 et seq.
1-18-2: JURISDICTION:
Those matters subject to the administrative adjudication system provided for by
this chapter are charges for a violation of any ordinance or regulation of the
village of Western Springs, so long as the relief sought is not a penalty of
incarceration, other than the following: (Ord. 03-2258, 8-11-2003)
   A.   Those violations subject to administrative adjudication under title 7,
"Motor Vehicles And Traffic", chapter 5, "Administrative Adjudication Of
Vehicle Regulation Violations", of this code as amended; (Ord. 03-2258, 8-11-
2003; amd. Ord. 08-2486, 2-25-2008)
   B.   Violations of any village ordinance, housing or building code or zoning
ordinance establishing construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire
prevention, sanitation or other health and safety standards that are applicable
to structures located in the village, or any ordinance of the village
requiring, after notice, the cutting of weeds, the removal of garbage and
debris, the removal of inoperable motor vehicles, or the abatement of nuisances
from private property; and
   C.   Any offense under the Illinois vehicle code 1 , or a similar offense
that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles and except for
any reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois vehicle code 2 .
(Ord. 03-2258, 8-11-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/6-204.
1-18-3: CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT; ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS SUPERVISOR:
There is established within the department of fire and inspectional services a
code hearing department. That department shall be directed by an administrative
hearings supervisor, who shall be the director of fire and inspectional
services, or his designee. The village manager shall continue to direct the
director of fire and inspectional services when acting in his capacity as
administrative hearings supervisor, and shall have final oversight and
authority over the operation of the code hearing department. The administrative
hearings supervisor's function is to expedite the prosecution and/or correction
of code violations subject to the jurisdiction of the administrative
adjudication system. The administrative hearings supervisor is authorized to
manage the administrative adjudication process in the manner provided for in
this chapter, which shall include determining the qualifications of
administrative hearing officers, appointing administrative hearing officers,
and establishing such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the
effective operation of the administrative adjudication system. The
administrative hearings supervisor may also appoint other persons to assist
with the administrative adjudication system provided for in this chapter. (Ord.
03-2258, 8-11-2003)
1-18-4: SCOPE OF AUTHORITY OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICERS:
Administrative hearing officers shall preside over administrative hearings. The
authority of an administrative hearing officer shall encompass all acts
necessary to conduct fair and impartial administrative hearings, including, but
not limited to:
   A.   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence relevant to the existence of a
code violation.
   B.   Administering oaths and affirmations to witnesses.
   C.   Asking questions of the parties and witnesses, if necessary, to ensure
the clarity and completeness of the testimony and the record.
   D.   At the request of any party or on the administrative hearing officer's
own motion, issuing subpoenas for the attendance of relevant witnesses and/or
the production of relevant books, records, or other information.
   E.   Preserving and authenticating the transcript and record of the hearing,
including all exhibits and evidence admitted into the record at the hearing.
   F.   Issuing a determination of whether a code violation exists in the form
of a written finding, decision and order, based upon a review of the notice of
violation, citation, other charging document, and on the evidence admitted, as
set forth in section
1-18-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-2258, 8-11-2003)
   G.   Upon finding a respondent liable for violating one or more charged code
provisions:
      1.   Imposing penalties as provided by the governing penalty provision of
this section, except, however, that in no event shall an administrative hearing
officer have authority to: a) impose a penalty of incarceration, or b) impose a
fine in excess of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for an individual
violation, excluding allowable costs. When applicable, each day a code
provision is found to have been violated by the respondent shall constitute a
separate offense, and each separate offense subjects the respondent to the
penalty provided by the governing penalty provision.
      2.   Imposing administrative and/or enforcement costs in addition to
fines, and, when applicable, imposing costs incurred by the village for
effecting compliance with code provision(s) for which a respondent has been
found liable.
      3.   Ordering, notwithstanding fines imposed or costs assessed, the
respondent to correct the code violation or to otherwise comply with code
provision(s) found to have been violated.
      4.   Ordering, regardless of fines imposed or costs assessed, the
respondent to perform a term of community service.
      5.   Ordering forfeiture of all or part of bond money deposited by a
respondent in a case involving a violation of the overweight provisions of the
Illinois motor vehicle code, as incorporated by section
7-7-6 of this code, if respondent is found guilty of or pleads guilty to the
violation or fails to appear at the hearing. (Ord. 08-2486, 2-25-2008)
   H.   Adhering to the policies, procedures, and ordinances set forth in this
code, as amended, except where discretion is specifically vested in the
administrative hearing officer; provided, however, that an administrative
hearing officer is authorized to waive the fine and/or costs that otherwise
would be imposed upon finding a respondent liable for one or more code
violations when the administrative hearing officer specifically finds as a
matter of fact that the violation occurred under such circumstances that, as a
reasonable person, would constitute an excuse for the violation.
   I.   Regulating the course of the hearing in accordance with this chapter,
the rules adopted by the administrative hearings supervisor for the conduct of
administrative hearings, and other applicable law. (Ord. 03-2258, 8-11-2003)
1-18-5: PROCEDURE:
All matters to be adjudicated by the code hearing department shall be commenced
against the party alleged to have violated one or more code provisions by
issuing and serving upon that party a notice of violation, citation, or other
charging document (hereinafter, "charging document"), and shall be conducted in
accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   Issuance: The charging document shall be issued by a village officer or
employee authorized to issue a code violation and served as provided for in
subsection B of this section.
      1.   Notice: Any charging document issued pursuant to this section shall
be on a multiple copy violation notice and report form that contains the
following information:
         a.   The name; village department; position; and identification
number, if applicable, of the person issuing the charging document;
         b.   The name and address of the person or entity being charged with
one or more code violations ("respondent");
         c.   The section(s) of the code alleged to have been violated;
         d.   A legally sufficient description of the activity or conduct
alleged to constitute a violation of each code section set forth in the
charging document or a legally sufficient description of the facts giving rise
to the allegations set forth in the charging document;
         e.   The date, time, and place the alleged violation was observed;
         f.   The names of any witnesses to the alleged violation;
         g.   The complainant's name if the complainant is not the issuing
village officer or employee; and
         h.   The signature of the person issuing the charging document and the
date of issuance.
      2.   Certification: The village officer or employee shall certify the
correctness of the information required by this section by signing his or her
name to the charging document to be issued. Compliance with this section shall
establish a prima facie case.
   B.   Docketing; Hearing Date: The charging document shall be forwarded to
the code hearing department where a docket number shall be stamped on all
copies of the report and a hearing date shall be noted in the blank spaces
provided for that purpose on the form. The hearing date shall not be less than
thirty (30) nor more than forty (40) days after the violation is reported.
      1.   Notice: The respondent named in a charging document shall be given
notice of the alleged violation(s), date of the administrative hearing, the
legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing will be held, and the
potential penalties for failure to appear at the hearing. Notice is to be
provided by serving a copy of the charging document on the respondent by first
class mail in an envelope addressed to the respondent's current or last known
residence, along with a summons commanding the respondent to appear at the
hearing. One copy of the charging document shall be maintained in the files of
the code hearing department and shall be part of the record of the
administrative hearing and one copy of the charging document shall be returned
to the individual representing the village in the case so that he or she may
prepare evidence of the code violation for presentation at the hearing on the
date indicated. (Ord. 03-2258, 8-11-2003)
1-18-6: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
All administrative hearings conducted by the code hearing department are open
to the public and shall be presided over by a duly appointed administrative
hearing officer who is charged with providing the parties a full and fair
opportunity to be heard. The procedures for conducting an administrative
hearing shall be as follows:
   A.   The case for the village may be presented by a village employee, or by
an attorney designated by the village attorney. The case for the village may
not be presented by an employee or other representative of the code hearing
department, provided, however, that documentary evidence, prepared by another
department of the village and submitted to the code hearing department, may be
presented at the hearing by the administrative hearing officer.
   B.   The case for the respondent may be presented by the respondent or by an
attorney or other representative of the respondent. An attorney or
representative appearing at an administrative hearing on behalf of a respondent
shall present the administrative hearing officer with a signed appearance form
stating, on oath or affirmation, that he or she has been authorized by the
respondent to represent the respondent at the hearing.
   C.   All administrative hearings shall be conducted on the date set for
hearing. No continuances shall be granted except where absolutely necessary to
protect the rights of the respondent. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds
for a continuance. Any continuances granted shall not exceed twenty five (25)
consecutive calendar days.
   D.   Both parties may present evidence relevant to the existence or
nonexistence of a code violation, present witnesses, and cross examine opposing
witnesses.
   E.   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in the
conduct of the hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only if it
is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct
of their affairs.
   F.   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance of
the evidence; provided, however, that the original or a legible copy of the
charging document, issued in accordance with the applicable provisions of this
code, shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts specified
therein.
   G.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the administrative hearing officer
shall make a determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing as to whether or not a code violation exists. The administrative
hearing officer may issue the following determinations: liable, not liable, or
liable upon a plea of no contest. The administrative hearing officer also may
dismiss the case with or without prejudice or grant a properly made motion by
the village voluntarily dismissing the case. If the administrative hearing
officer issues a final determination of liability, he may impose fines, assess
costs, and make orders, all as provided by subsection
1-18-4G of this chapter, and as are consistent with the specific code provision
(s) found to have been violated.
   H.   The administrative hearing officer shall inform the parties orally and
in writing of his determination. The written determination shall be designated
as "findings, decision, and order" and shall include the hearing officer's
findings of fact, a decision of whether or not a code violation exists based
upon the findings of fact, and an order that states the sanction or dismisses
the case if a violation is not proved. A copy of the findings, decision, and
order shall be served on the respondent within five (5) days after it is issued
by first class mail as provided in subsection
1-18-5B of this chapter.
   I.   The administrative hearing officer's findings, decision and order
constitutes a final determination for purposes of judicial review. Either party
may seek review under the Illinois administrative review law 1 .
   J.   The administrative hearings supervisor shall determine the manner in
which the record of the hearing shall be preserved. Such preservation may be
made by tape recording or other appropriate means. Recording by any means by
any member of the public is prohibited unless expressly authorized by the
administrative hearings supervisor. The record of all hearings before an
administrative hearing officer shall include a copy of the findings, decision,
and order of the administrative hearing officer's final determination. (Ord.
03-2258, 8-11-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
1-18-7: DEFAULT:
If at the time set for hearing, the respondent, or his attorney or
representative of record, fails to appear, the administrative hearing officer
may find the respondent in default and proceed with the hearing and accept
evidence relevant to the existence of a code violation. Upon entering a default
judgment of liability against the respondent, the administrative hearing
officer may impose fines and assess costs. A copy of the order of default shall
be served on the respondent by first class mail as provided in subsection
1-18-5B of this chapter.
   A.   A copy of the default judgment, which constitutes a final determination
for purposes of judicial review and is subject to review under the Illinois
administrative review law 1 , shall apprise the respondent of the availability
of an appeal of the default judgment to the circuit court of Cook County. (Ord.
03-2258, 8-11-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
1-18-8: ENFORCEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER'S ORDER:
   A.   Any fine, other sanction, or administrative, enforcement, or compliance
costs, or part of any such fine, other sanction or costs, imposed by an
administrative hearing officer's order that remain unpaid after the exhaustion
of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures, shall be a debt due
and owing the village and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After the expiration of the period for which judicial review of a final
determination may be sought, the village may commence a proceeding in the
circuit court of Cook County for the purpose of obtaining a judgment on the
findings, decision, and order. The village may consolidate multiple findings,
decisions, and orders against the same respondent under a single petition in a
single proceeding. Upon commencement of the action, the village shall file a
certified copy of the findings, decision, and order, which shall be accompanied
by a certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the findings,
decision, and order was issued in accordance with this chapter and division 2.2
of the Illinois municipal code.
   C.   Service of the summons and a copy of the petition may be made by any
method provided for by section 2-203 of the Illinois code of civil procedure 1
or by certified mail, return receipt requested, provided that the total amount
of fines, other sanctions, and costs imposed by the findings, decision, and
order does not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   If the court is satisfied that the findings, decision, and order was
entered in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and division 2.2 of
the Illinois municipal code, and that the respondent had an opportunity for an
administrative hearing and judicial review:
      1.   The court shall render judgment in favor of the village and against
the respondent for the amount indicated in the findings, decision, and order,
plus costs. The judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced in the
same manner as other judgments for the recovery of money.
      2.   The court may also issue any other orders and injunctions that are
requested by the village to enforce the order of the administrative hearing
officer to correct a code violation. (Ord. 03-2258, 8-11-2003)
 
Notes
1 2. 735 ILCS 5/2-203.
1-18-9: ELECTION OF REMEDIES:
In no case may the code hearing department conduct an administrative hearing
for an alleged code violation where the remedy provided for is a punishment of
imprisonment. Nothing in this chapter, however, shall preclude the village from
petitioning a court of competent jurisdiction to adjudicate any ordinance
violation, which provides the remedy of imprisonment, or from petitioning a
court of competent jurisdiction to impose the remedy of imprisonment for
failure to comply with an order of an administrative hearing officer. (Ord. 03-
2258, 8-11-2003)
CHAPTER 19
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF BUILDING CODE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
1-19-1: Creation Of Administrative Adjudication System
1-19-2: Jurisdiction
1-19-3: Code Hearing Department; Administrative Hearings Supervisor
1-19-4: Scope Of Authority Of Administrative Hearing Officers
1-19-5: Procedure
1-19-6: Administrative Hearings
1-19-7: Default
1-19-8: Enforcement Of Administrative Hearing Officer's Order
1-19-9: Election Of Remedies
1-19-10: Eviction; Rights Of Occupants
1-19-11: Defenses To Code Violations
1-19-12: Sanctions Applicable To Respondent-Owner; Real Property
1-19-1: CREATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEM:
   A.   Pursuant to division 31.1 of title 11 of the Illinois municipal code 1
, which authorizes municipalities to implement a system of administrative
adjudication of violations of any municipal ordinance, law, housing or building
code or zoning ordinance that establishes construction, plumbing, heating,
electrical, fire prevention, sanitation or other health and safety standards
that are applicable to structures in a municipality or any municipal ordinance
that requires, after notice, the cutting of weeds, the removal of garbage and
debris, the removal of inoperable motor vehicles, or the abatement of nuisances
from private property, there is created within the department of fire and
inspectional services a code hearing department to implement an administrative
adjudication system for charges of violations of this code, as amended.
   B.   The village adopts division 31.1 of title 11 of the Illinois municipal
code 2 , as it may be amended from time to time. The adoption of division 31.1
of title 11 does not preclude the village from using other lawful methods to
enforce the provisions of this code. (Ord. 03-2259, 8-11-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-31.1-1 et seq.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-31.1-1 et seq.
1-19-2: JURISDICTION:
Those matters subject to the administrative adjudication system authorized by
this chapter are charges of violations of any village ordinance, housing or
building code or zoning ordinance establishing construction, plumbing, heating,
electrical, fire prevention, sanitation or other health and safety standards
that are applicable to structures located in the village, or any ordinance of
the village requiring, after notice, the cutting of weeds, the removal of
garbage and debris, the removal of inoperable motor vehicles, or the abatement
of nuisances from private property, so long as the relief sought is not a
penalty of incarceration. (Ord. 03-2259, 8-11-2003)
1-19-3: CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT; ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS SUPERVISOR:
The establishment of the position of administrative hearings supervisor, and
functions and authority of said supervisor under the administrative
adjudication system authorized by this chapter, shall be the same as and in
accordance with the provisions of section
1-18-3 of this title, as amended, which are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 03-2259, 8-11-2003)
1-19-4: SCOPE OF AUTHORITY OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICERS:
The establishment of the position of administrative hearing officer, and the
functions and authority of said officer under the administrative adjudication
system authorized by this chapter, shall be the same as and in accordance with
the provisions of section
1-18-4 of this title, as amended, which are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 03-2259, 8-11-2003)
1-19-5: PROCEDURE:
All matters to be adjudicated by the code hearing department under the
administrative adjudication system authorized in this chapter shall be
commenced by a building inspector who, upon finding a code violation while
inspecting a structure, shall note the violation on a multiple copy violation
notice and report form, indicating the name and address of the structure owner,
the address of the structure where the violation is observed, and the other
information required in subsection
1-18-5A1 of this title. In all other respects, the relevant procedures under
this chapter shall be in accordance with the provisions of section
1-18-5 of this title, as amended, which are incorporated herein by reference,
except that the respondent given notice as set forth in subsection
1-18-5B of this title shall be the owner of the structure. If the name of the
respondent-owner of the structure cannot be ascertained or if service cannot be
made by mail, service may be made on the respondent-owner by posting or nailing
a copy of the charging document on the front door of the structure where the
violation is found, not less than twenty (20) days before the hearing is
scheduled. (Ord. 03-2259, 8-11-2003)
1-19-6: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
Administrative hearings conducted by the code hearing department under the
administrative adjudication system authorized in this chapter shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of section
1-18-6 of this title, as amended, which are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 03-2259, 8-11-2003)
1-19-7: DEFAULT:
All defaults under the administrative adjudication system authorized by this
chapter shall be in accordance with the provisions of section
1-18-7 of this title, as amended, which are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 03-2259, 8-11-2003)
1-19-8: ENFORCEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER'S ORDER:
Enforcement of an administrative hearing officer's order under the
administrative adjudication system authorized by this chapter shall be in
accordance with the provisions of section
1-18-8 of this title, as amended, which are incorporated herein by reference,
except that any certification filed with the circuit court of Cook County under
this chapter shall recite facts sufficient to show that the findings, decision,
and order was issued in accordance with this chapter and division 31.1 of the
Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 03-2259, 8-11-2003)
1-19-9: ELECTION OF REMEDIES:
Election of remedies under the administrative adjudication system authorized by
this chapter shall be in accordance with the provisions of section
1-18-9 of this title, as amended, which are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 03-2259, 8-11-2003)
1-19-10: EVICTION; RIGHTS OF OCCUPANTS:
No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer,
or other similar proceedings shall be threatened or instituted against an
occupant of a dwelling solely because such occupant agrees to testify or
testifies at an administrative hearing relative to a code violation under the
administrative adjudication system authorized by this chapter. (Ord. 03-2259,
8-11-2003)
1-19-11: DEFENSES TO CODE VIOLATIONS:
In any administrative hearing conducted under the administrative adjudication
system authorized by this chapter, it shall be a defense to a code violation if
the respondent-owner, his attorney, or any other representative proves to the
satisfaction of the administrative hearing officer that:
   A.   The code violation alleged in the charging document does not in fact
exist, or at the time of the hearing the violation has been remedied or
removed.
   B.   The code violation has been caused by the current property occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the respondent-owner to maintain
the premises or dwelling free of such violations, the current occupants
continue to cause the violations.
   C.   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the
respondent-owner or his agent to all or a part of the premises or the dwelling
for the purpose of correcting the code violation. (Ord. 03-2259, 8-11-2003)
1-19-12: SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO RESPONDENT-OWNER; REAL PROPERTY:
The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by the village
as the result of a finding of a code violation under this chapter shall attach
to the real property as well as to the respondent-owner of the real property,
so that a finding of a code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by
conveying or transferring the real property to another owner. The village has
the right to record with the Cook County recorder of deeds and against title to
the real property a notice of violation and/or the findings, decision and
order. The village shall file a release of said notice or order upon correction
of the code violation with the Cook County recorder of deeds. The property
owner shall be responsible for the payment of all legal fees and recording
costs associated with the preparation and filing of said notice or order and
said release. Any subsequent transferee or owner of real property takes subject
to the findings, decision and order of an administrative hearing officer under
this chapter. (Ord. 03-2259, 8-11-2003)
CHAPTER 20
RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE PUBLIC HEARINGS
SECTION:
1-20-1: Findings
1-20-2: Definitions
1-20-3: Rules And Procedures
1-20-1: FINDINGS:
The president and board of trustees find and declare that it is in the best
interests of the village of Western Springs to amend the municipal code to
specifically provide a general set of rules and regulations to guide all
village boards, commissions and committees that conduct statutory public
hearings relative to land use approvals, including special uses, variations,
rezoning and planned unit developments, in accordance with the decision of the
Illinois supreme court in Klaeren v. Village of Lisle, 202 Ill.2d 164, 781
N.E.2d 223 (2002). (Ord. 03-2268, 11-24-2003)
1-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of interpreting these rules and procedures, the following
definitions apply:
INTERESTED PERSON: Includes, but is not limited to: village residents, village
staff, members of the public and any attorney or consultant appearing on behalf
of the village, village residents or members of the public.
OBJECTOR: Any person who desires to object to a filed application for zoning
relief and his or her attorney or consultant.
PETITIONER: Any person who has filed an application for zoning relief and his
or her attorney or consultant.
PUBLIC BODY: The Western Springs village board, plan commission, zoning board
of appeals and any other board, committee and commission. (Ord. 03-2268, 11-24-
2003)
1-20-3: RULES AND PROCEDURES:
The following rules and procedures shall apply to all public hearing
proceedings:
   A.   Notice Requirements: Notice requirements for a public hearing are found
in the Illinois municipal code 1  and in the development control ordinance
(title 10, "Development Control Ordinance", of this code). It is the
responsibility of the petitioner to ensure that any required notice is given in
a timely manner, consistent with statutory and ordinance requirements.
      For example, section 11-13-1.1 of the Illinois municipal code, 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-1.1, provides that "a special use shall be
permitted only after a public hearing before some commission or committee
designated by the corporate authorities, with prior notice thereof given in the
manner as provided in sections 11-13-6 and 11-13-7". While the notice
provisions of sections 11-13-6 and 11-13-7 apply only to municipalities with
five hundred thousand (500,000) or more in population, the notice requirement
of section 11-13-1.1 applies to all municipalities, regardless of population.
Therefore, notice of the time and place of the public hearing for special uses
must be published, at least once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality. In addition, written notice, either personally
delivered or sent by certified mail, must be provided to the owners, as
recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds and as appears from the tax
records of the county, for all property located within two hundred fifty feet
(250') in any direction from the location for which the special use is
requested. The notice must contain the address of the location for which the
special use is requested, a brief statement of the nature of the special use
requested, the name     and address of the legal and beneficial owner of the
property for which the special use is requested, and a statement that the
applicant intends to file an application for special use and the date upon
which the application will be filed.
These above notice requirements for all land use matters requiring a public
hearing are generally set forth in the development control ordinance, including
chapters 3, "Administrative Procedures", 8, "Planned Developments" and 10,
"Subdivisions".
   B.   Compliance With Illinois Open Meetings Act And Village Procedures,
Protocols And Regulations For Remote Meetings And Electronic Attendance At
Meetings: All public hearings of a public body are meetings as defined by the
Illinois open meetings act 1 . The Illinois open meetings act must be adhered
to in all instances, including the village rules and procedures set forth in
section 1-21-1 (Participation In Meetings By Telephone Conference Call Or Other
Electronic Means) and the village procedures, protocols and regulations for
remote meetings, which were adopted by the village pursuant to sections 2.01
and 7 of the open meetings act (120 ILCS 5/2.01 and 7). See, Village President
Declaration No. 2020-03 (Declaration Of A State Of Emergency In The Village Of
Western Springs, Cook County, Illinois (Covid 19 - November 9, 2020) (Disaster
Declaration and Remote Meeting Rules). The open meetings act requires that a
verbatim record of all closed meetings of public bodies be kept in the form of
an audio or video recording. Under these rules and procedures, the public body
shall make verbatim audiotape recordings of its closed session meetings. No
final action (or final vote) may be taken on any matter in a closed session 2
. Subject to compliance with applicable laws, the village reserves the right
when conducting any public hearing to allow the petitioner and its
representatives and consultants, the village officials, representatives and
consultants, and the public to attend and participate in the public hearing by
one (1) or more methods:
      1.   In-person attendance, subject to maximum room occupancy limitations
mandated by state, county or local occupancy and health/life safety laws and
regulations;
      2.   By an internet-based electronic audio and video meeting platform
(the Zoom App); and/or
      3.   By dial-in conference call line as an alternate means of public
participation.
   C.   Registration To Participate In Public Hearings: All individuals
desiring to participate in the public hearing process shall register with the
community development department during normal business hours or immediately
prior to the commencement of the public hearing with the village staff liaison,
or his/her designee, or during the public hearing, provided that they do not
disturb the proceedings. A registration form is available on the village’s
website or from the community development department. This form can be used for
a specific public hearing or for multiple public hearings to be heard at one
meeting of the public body. A link for information on how to attend and
participate in the public hearing, including the meeting ID number and access
code for the internet-based audio and video meeting platforms (e.g., Zoom app),
the dial-in conference call number, and the village rules and procedures for
land use public hearings, will be posted to https://wsprings.com/calendar at
least two (2) hours before each public hearing. In order to electronically
participate in a public hearing by providing verbal testimony or written
evidence or conducting cross- examination of any witnesses, you are required to
submit your records to and pre-register by email or over the phone with the
director of community development (708-246-1800 ext. 175) at least forty-eight
(48) hours before the public hearing. The contact information for the director
of community development is available on the village’s website
(www.wsprings.com) or by calling the village’s general information number of
708-246-1800. The pre-registration requirement provides the village with an
opportunity to ensure that any audio and visual technological needs can be
accommodated and that any referenced or submitted documents can be made
available in advance for review by members of the public body, the petitioner
and its representatives and consultants, the village staff and consultants, and
the general public. The intent of the pre-registration requirement is to
provide all interested persons with the opportunity to attend and participate
in public hearings scheduled by the village and to ensure that the public
hearing is conducted in an efficient, fair and transparent manner. The pre-
registration requirement and any other provision of these rules should not be
applied in an unreasonable manner to deny any person the opportunity to attend
and participate in a public hearing.
   D.   Representation: At a public hearing, a petitioner, objector or other
interested persons may appear on his or her own behalf or may be represented by
an attorney.
   E.   Introductory Matters: Prior to the commencement of the public hearing,
the chair will determine whether there are any objectors or other interested
persons and if an attorney represents any objector, group of objectors or
interested persons. The chair will also determine whether any parties have
evidence or testimony to be admitted. The chair may make prefatory comments
indicating the order of presentation, the ability to ask questions and to
present testimony. The chair will also explain that during the time for
questioning witnesses, testimony should not be given by the person asking
questions. All members of the public body participating in the meeting or
public hearing, wherever their physical location, shall be verified and must be
able to hear one another and must be able to hear all discussion and testimony
of all other attendees.
   F.   Order Of Presentation: Unless the chair decides to alter the order of
presentation, the general order of presentation will be as follows:
      1.   Opening of public hearing.
      2.   Acknowledgment of names of attendees participating remotely.
      3.   Swearing in petitioner, objectors and interested persons.
      4.   Confirmation of notices being published and mailed in accordance
with state law and municipal code requirements.
      5.   Petitioner presentation.
         a.   Cross examination.
         b.   Questions by public body.
      6.   Village staff presentation.
         a.   Cross examination.
         b.   Questions by public body.
         c.   Rebuttal.
      7.   Objectors presentation(s) * .
         a.   Cross examination.
         b.   Questions by public body.
      8.   Interested persons presentation(s).
         a.   Cross examination.
         b.   Questions by public body.
         c.   Rebuttal.
      9.   Petitioner rebuttal.
      10.   Final questions by public body.
      11.   Closing remarks by petitioner, objectors, interested persons and
village staff.
      12. Close or continuation of public hearing.
      *   For remote public hearing proceedings conducted pursuant to section 7
(e) of the open meetings act, after the presentations by the petitioner and
village staff, the chair will first allow objectors or interested persons who
are present in- person to ask questions or provide comment or testimony, and
then the chair will open the public hearing to objectors or interested persons
who attend remotely. All persons attending remotely must follow any
participation protocols explained by the chair during the public hearing.
   G.   Rules Of Evidence: The chair may impose reasonable limitations on
evidence or testimony presented by persons and parties, such as barring
repetitious, irrelevant or immaterial testimony. The public body shall not be
bound by strict rules of evidence; however, irrelevant, immaterial or unduly
repetitious evidence shall not be admissible. The chair shall rule on all
questions related to the admissibility of evidence, which ruling may be
overruled by a majority of at least a quorum of the public body.
   H.   Authority Of Chair: The chair may take such actions as are required to
maintain an orderly and civil hearing, and may take such further actions to
ensure that all public hearings are conducted in an efficient, fair and
transparent manner.
   I.   Record Of Proceedings: All public hearings must have a record of
proceedings. For major presentations, matters where objectors will be
participating and matters believed to be controversial, the public hearing will
be transcribed by a certified court reporter at the cost of the petitioner.
Other public hearings may be recorded by use of a tape recorder or as part of
the internet-based audio and video meeting platform. Care should be made to
ensure the tape recorder is functioning and will be audible to a person seeking
to understand the proceedings.
   J.   Burden Of Proof; Oath: Since the petitioner has the burden of proof,
the petitioner should present his or her evidence and witnesses first. All
persons offering testimony at a hearing shall testify under oath. An attorney
shall be sworn if he or she offers testimony but not if he or she is
questioning witnesses, summarizing testimony of witnesses, or addressing the
public body.
   K.   Exhibits: All exhibits shall be clearly and distinctly marked by the
person offering the exhibit into the record and the exhibit number or letter
shall be identified when the exhibit is used at or referred to during the
public hearing.
   L.   Cross-examination: After each witness has testified, objectors and
interested persons will have the right to ask questions or cross examine the
witness. There is no time limit placed upon cross examination, but if a
question has already been asked by some person, the chair may refuse to allow a
second person to ask the same question. Questions must be relevant and material
to the public hearing proceeding. The examination of a witness shall not be
used by the questioner to offer testimony or evidence of the questioner.
   M.   Questions By Public Body: After all objectors or interested persons
have asked questions, the members of the public body may ask questions of each
witness.
   N.   Objectors Or Interested Persons: After all petitioner witnesses have
testified and all evidence for the petitioner has been presented, members of
the objectors or interested persons may testify or present evidence. There is
no time limit on the presentation by members of the public. The petitioner and
other members of the general public may cross examine any witness of objectors
or interested persons who testifies.
   O.   Rebuttal: After the conclusion of the objector or interested persons
testimony, the petitioner may offer rebuttal witnesses or evidence.
   P.   Village Presentation: Then village staff may make a presentation or
report. Staff presenting a report will be subject to cross examination by the
petitioner or objector or other interested persons.
   Q.   Identification Of Participants: All individuals testifying or
participating shall identify themselves (and their current place of residence)
for the record, either orally or in writing, and indicate if an attorney
represents them, or if they are representing any person or appearing on behalf
of any other person, association, corporation or entity. Any person
participating, other than the petitioner, shall be referred to in these rules
as an objector or interested person.
   R.   Closing Remarks: The petitioner, objectors and interested persons may
be given the opportunity to make closing remarks.
   S.   Continuance: If a hearing needs to be continued to another date in
order for a full presentation by all parties, then it may be continued to a
date and time selected by the public body and approved by a motion of the
public body.
   T.   Deliberation By Public Body: At the conclusion of the public hearing,
the public body may move to deliberate its decision on the evidence presented,
recess to closed session to deliberate its decision on the evidence presented
(if the proper motion is approved by a majority under a roll call vote), or
continue the hearing to a specific date, time and location by a motion approved
by a roll call vote.
   U.   Decision; Ordinance: A written decision shall be prepared which shall
include findings of fact and the public body's recommendation or decision based
upon the record. An ordinance approving or denying the application may be a
sufficient written decision if it contains appropriate findings of fact
concerning the relevant standards to be applied by the public body.
   V.   Additional Rules For Remote Meetings And Public Hearings:
      1.   Pursuant to section 7(e) of the open meetings act, the following
additional rules shall apply:
         a.   Access: After the village president and/or the chair, in their
sole discretion, has determined that in-person meeting(s) or public hearing(s)
conducted under OMA is not practical or prudent because of a disaster, the
village manager, or his/her designee, may decide to allow such meeting(s) or
public hearing(s) to proceed remotely, whether fully or in-part. In determining
whether it is necessary to proceed remotely, the village shall consider the
type and nature of the meeting or hearing along with any emergency
proclamations, executive orders and public health guidelines in place at the
time of the meeting or hearing. The village, in its discretion, may allow the
meeting or hearing to proceed with:
            (1)   In-person attendance as allowed under any active public
health guidelines with live stream audio with or without video of the meeting
or hearing available at alternative locations to accommodate overflow capacity
and allow for social distancing; and/or
            (2)   An internet- based audio/video meeting platform such as Zoom;
and/or
            (3)   Conference call lines that allow members of the public to
call in to participate in the meeting or hearing.
         b.   Petitioner Consent: Prior to the commencement of a public
hearing, the petitioner must sign a written consent acknowledging their choice
to proceed with a virtual/remote public hearing and assuming any risk that the
hearing process may be held defective.
         c.   Mandatory Physical Presence: At least one (1) member of the
public body, chief legal counsel or chief administrative officer must be
physically present at the scheduled meeting or public hearing location (e.g.,
village hall) during the meeting or public hearing, unless unfeasible due to
the disaster.
         d.   Access Platform And Agenda Posting: The platform for remote,
electronic attendance at the meeting or public hearing will be arranged in
advance by the village manager, or his/her designee, and will be communicated
to the public body and the petitioner at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to
the commencement of the meeting or public hearing. An agenda and information
regarding how to attend the meeting or public hearing, including any remote
access instructions, shall be posted on the village’s website and at the
meeting or public hearing location and at village hall at least forty-eight
(48) hours prior to the commencement of the meeting or public hearing.
         e.   Agenda Content: Information will be printed on the agenda and
prominently on the village’s website about how to provide public comment or
participate in the meeting or public hearing. The agenda shall include at least
the following information in substantially the following form:
            (1)   Attendance at and participation in the meeting or public
hearing by the petitioner and its representatives and consultants, the village
officials, representatives and consultants, and the public may be restricted to
one (1) or more methods: (a) in-person attendance, subject to maximum room
occupancy limitations mandated by state, county or local occupancy and health/
life safety laws and regulations; (b) by an internet- based electronic audio
and video platform (the Zoom app); and/or (c) by dial-in conference call line
as an alternate means of public participation.
            (2)   Members of the public are encouraged to use the internet-
based audio/video platform to watch, listen and participate in the meeting or
public hearing. A link with the meeting ID number and access code to join the
meeting or public hearing will be posted to https://www.wsprings.com/551/
Public-Meeting-Notice at least two (2) hours before commencement of the meeting
or hearing. That page will have more information on use of the internet-based
audio/video platform. Public comments will be allowed using the “raise hand”
function in the internet-based audio/video platform or when recognized by the
chair.
            (3)   Public comments may also be submitted in advance of the
meeting or public hearing by leaving a hard copy in the village drop box or via
email to xxxxxx by three o’clock (3:00) P.M. on the day of the meeting or
public hearing. Your written comments will be read into the public record (if
concise) or included as part of the public record.
         f.   Alternate Access Methods: Any meeting or public hearing allowing
for remote or virtual attendance shall, at the minimum, allow for the use of a
conference call line as an alternate means of participation by the public. If
the meeting or public hearing is utilizing an internet-based audio/video
meeting platform, the village shall provide alternate methods of communication
such as use of a conference call line as a back-up means of communication if
the internet-based audio/video meeting platform has connectivity issues and to
provide members of the public who lack internet access a more traditional means
of communication.
         g.   Civility And Decorum: Anyone participating in the meeting or
public hearing remotely shall be held to the same decorum standards and shall
proceed in a manner as if the person was physically present. Conduct and
comments injurious or disruptive to the progress of the meeting or public
hearing or to the harmony of the public body or comments that engage in a
debate or make direct threats or personal attacks or are uncivil or abusive
will be called to order by the chair and the remote access may be disconnected
if said comments or behavior persist.
         h.   Muted Status: When not speaking, all persons participating
remotely, with the exception of members of the public body, should have their
microphones muted.
         i.   Roll Call Voting: All votes on all matters considered and acted
on at the meeting or public hearing shall be conducted by roll call, so each
member’s vote on each issue can be identified and recorded. Each member
participating remotely shall announce his/her name as part of stating his/her
vote.
         j.   Testimony: All persons who desire to testify will be asked to
raise their right hands and be sworn in at the outset of the meeting or public
hearing. Then, when each speaker begins their individual comments, the chair
shall have them verbally confirm that they have previously been sworn in.
Participants shall be sworn in regardless of their physical location, as if
they were being sworn in and providing testimony in the village. All applicable
rules and laws of the state apply to the meeting or public hearing, the
testimony and the participants, regardless of where any participant is actually
physically located during the meeting or public hearing.
         k.   Verbatim Minutes: In addition to the requirements for open
meetings under section 2.06 of the OMA, the public body must also keep a
verbatim record of all their remote access meetings and public hearings in the
form of an audio or video recording. Verbatim records made under these rules
shall be made available to the public under, and are otherwise subject to, the
provisions of section 2.06 of the OMA.
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 2. 5 ILCS 120/2(e).
  *   For remote public hearing proceedings conducted pursuant to section 7(e) of
  the open meetings act, after the presentations by the petitioner and village
  staff, the chair will first allow objectors or interested persons who are
* present in- person to ask questions or provide comment or testimony, and then
  the chair will open the public hearing to objectors or interested persons who
  attend remotely. All persons attending remotely must follow any participation
  protocols explained by the chair during the public hearing.
This policy is designed to provide a generally applicable framework for public
hearings so that full and fair hearings are conducted by the public body. The
public body should know all of the facts concerning a proposed land use and a
thorough and complete hearing process is the best way to learn about the facts
and the issues concerned. (Ord. 03-2268, 11-24-2003; amd. Ord. 21-3040, 4-26-
2021)
CHAPTER 21
MEETINGS
SECTION:
1-21-1: Participation In Meetings By Telephone Conference Call Or Other
Electronic Means
1-21-2: Approval Of Minutes
1-21-3: Public Comment Participation Guidelines At Public Meetings
1-21-1: PARTICIPATION IN MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE CONFERENCE CALL OR OTHER
ELECTRONIC MEANS:
   A.   Findings: Public Act 94-1058, effective January 1, 2007, amends the
open meetings act 1  to allow municipalities to adopt rules and procedures that
permit appointed and elected members of boards, commissions and committees to
attend, participate and vote at open and closed public meetings through the use
of telephone conference calls or other electronic means. The corporate
authorities of the village find that it is in the public interest to adopt a
set of rules and procedures that allow appointed and elected members of village
boards, commissions and committees to attend, participate in and vote at open
and closed public meetings through the use of telephone conference calls or
other electronic means (e.g., video or audio conference). Public Act 101-0640,
effective June 12, 2020, further amends the open meetings act to allow public
bodies to adopt remote meeting rules that allow public meetings and hearings to
be conducted through the use of internet-based audio and video meeting
platforms, telephone conference calls or other electronic means where a quorum
is not physically present, provided the head of the public body determines that
in- person meetings or public hearings are not practical or prudent because of
a disaster and other specific criteria are met.
   B.   Definitions: The definitions of the terms "meeting", "public body",
"other means", "quorum" or any other defined term used in this section, which
is also found in the open meetings act, shall have the same definitions as
contained in the open meetings act 2 , as amended.
   C.   Rules And Procedures:
      1.   Village boards, committees and commissions must comply with all of
the applicable requirements of the open meetings act 3 , as amended.
      2.   Village boards, committees and commissions are prohibited from
establishing a quorum to conduct business at an open or closed meeting through
the attendance of board members by the use of telephone conference calls or
other electronic means. A quorum of members of a village board, commission or
committee must be physically present at the location of an open or closed
meeting.
      3.   Village officials who wish to attend a meeting electronically must
give notice before the commencement of the meeting to the recording secretary
or the village clerk (or deputy clerk), unless advance notice is impractical.
      4.   Meeting minutes must reflect whether a member is present physically
or electronically, regardless of whether any members are attending through the
use of a telephone conference call or other electronic means.
      5.   Provided that the audio, telephone or video conference connection
allows the voice of an absent member to be clearly heard by the attendees of
the meeting (including the public) and the absent member can clearly hear the
voices of the attendees who participate in the meeting, a member of a village
board, committee and commission may attend, participate and vote at an open or
closed meeting through the use of a telephone conference call or other
electronic means if the member is prevented from physically attending because
of:
         a.   Personal illness or disability; or
         b.   Employment purposes or the business of the public body; or
         c.   A family or other emergency.
      6.   Where one or more members of a village board, committee and
commission is attending the meeting by use of a telephone conference call or
other electronic means, the presiding officer shall, immediately after
convening of the meeting, announce to the public which member is attending the
meeting by use of a telephone conference call or other electronic means,
identify the method of attendance and the reason why the absent member is
participating by such means.
      7.   If the presiding officer attends the meeting through the use of a
telephone conference call or other electronic means, he or she shall not be
required to vacate the chair and may act in his or her capacity as the
presiding officer for the purposes of the meeting despite not being physically
present.
      8.   The voice of the absent member participating by telephone conference
call or other electronic means, after being identified by the other village
board, committee and commission members as belonging to the absent member,
shall be simultaneously broadcast to the public present at the meeting so that
his or her voice can be heard, and the member shall also be able to hear any
discussions of the other members and the public comment regarding any issue
discussed at the meeting before a vote is taken. (Ord. 06-2414, 10-23-2006)
   9.   Procedures, Protocols And Regulations For Remote Meetings: Pursuant to
sections 2.01 and 7 of the open meetings act (120 ILCS 5/2.01 and 7) (“OMA”),
and for the duration of any Illinois governor issued disaster declaration (a
disaster as defined in section 4 of the Illinois emergency management agency
act), the village shall comply with the procedures, protocols and regulations
for remote meetings as approved by the village president under Declaration No.
2020-03 Declaration Of A State Of Emergency In The Village Of Western Springs,
Cook County, Illinois (Covid-19 - November 9, 2020) (Disaster Declaration And
Remote Meeting Rules) dated November 9, 2020. (Ord. 06-2414, 10-23-2006; amd.
Ord. 21-3040, 4-26-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 2. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3 3. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1-21-2: APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Each board, committee and commission shall approve minutes of their open
meetings within thirty (30) days after that meeting, or at the second
subsequent regular meeting thereafter, whichever is later. (Ord. 11-2613, 1-24-
2011)
1-21-3: PUBLIC COMMENT PARTICIPATION GUIDELINES AT PUBLIC MEETINGS:
In accordance with the requirements of section 2.06(g) of the Illinois open
meetings act 1 , any person attending a public meeting of any village board,
committee, subcommittee or commission shall be permitted to address the public
officials during the public comment period, which shall be reserved for each
meeting, subject to the following guidelines:
   A.   Public Comment Participation Guidelines:
      1.   A period of time not to exceed thirty (30) minutes will be devoted
to public comment at each meeting, unless the public officials, by a majority
vote at the meeting, agree to allow the public comment period to exceed thirty
(30) minutes for that particular meeting.
      2.   Public comment for each individual who desires to address the public
body shall be limited to three (3) minutes per person per meeting. The public
officials may, by a majority vote at the meeting, agree to allow the per person
public comment session to exceed three (3) minutes for a particular topic or a
particular meeting.
      3.   Each person who desires to address the public body shall contact the
village clerk or secretary of the public body prior to the start of the meeting
and provide their name and the topic on which they wish to speak.
      4.   Each person shall state their name to the public body at the start
of his or her public comment session.
      5.   Each person may provide preprepared copies of his or her public
comments to the public body prior to, during or after his or her public comment
session.
      6.   A group of three (3) or more individuals speaking on the same topic
are asked to designate a single spokesperson to present the group's public
comments.
      7.   Public comment at all public meetings of village boards, committees,
subcommittees and commissions shall be entertained on any subject matter.
      8.   Members of the public body will not respond to the public comments
at the public meeting, unless directed by the village president or chair of the
public body. The village president or chair, or his/her designee, will respond
to the public comments, as he or she deems appropriate, and may direct the
person to the appropriate village official or staff member for assistance.
      9.   Abusive, foul or other inappropriate language or conduct and/or
personal attacks are not permitted.
      10.   The village president or chair has the authority to terminate the
public comment session of any person who fails to adhere to these guidelines.
(Ord. 16-2838, 5-23-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/2.06(g).
CHAPTER 22
DOWNTOWN SOUTH TIF DISTRICT
SECTION:
1-22-1: Establishment Of The Downtown South TIF District
1-22-2: Designation Of TIF Administrator
1-22-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DOWNTOWN SOUTH TIF DISTRICT:
On January 26, 2015, pursuant to the Illinois tax increment allocation
redevelopment act, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-1 et seq., the
president and board of trustees of the village of Western Springs established
the downtown south tax increment financing district (referred to as the
"downtown south TIF district") for the village of Western Springs with the
adoption of the following ordinances:
   A.   Western Springs ordinance 15-2777 (designating the village of Western
Springs downtown south tax increment financing district redevelopment project
area).
   B.   Western Springs ordinance 15-2778 (approving the village of Western
Springs downtown south tax increment financing district redevelopment project
area redevelopment plan and project).
   C.   Western Springs ordinance 15-2779 (adopting tax increment financing for
the village of Western Springs downtown south tax increment financing
district).
Copies of the above referenced ordinances and the map of the redevelopment
project area and the redevelopment project area redevelopment plan for the
downtown south TIF district are available on the village's website and from the
village clerk's office. (Ord. 15-2800, 4-27-2015)
1-22-2: DESIGNATION OF TIF ADMINISTRATOR:
The president and board of trustees of the village of Western Springs designate
the village manager as the TIF administrator for the downtown south TIF
district, who shall be responsible for performing all administrative duties and
compliance actions in regard to the downtown south TIF district, including
compliance with all annual filing and reporting requirements required by state
law (Illinois tax increment allocation redevelopment act 1  and the industrial
jobs recovery law 2 , preparation and filing of the annual TIF report with the
office of the state of Illinois comptroller, scheduling and coordination of the
annual joint board of review meetings, and such other duties as are necessary
to maintain compliance with applicable laws. (Ord. 15-2800, 4-27-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-3 et seq.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-74.6-10 et seq.
CHAPTER 23
DOWNTOWN NORTH TIF DISTRICT
SECTION:
1-23-1: Establishment Of The Downtown North TIF District
1-23-2: Designation Of TIF Administrator
1-23-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DOWNTOWN NORTH TIF DISTRICT:
   A.   On December 16, 2019, pursuant to the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act (65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq.) and the Industrial Jobs
Recovery Law (65 ILCS 5/11-74.6-10 et seq.), the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Western Springs established the downtown north tax
increment financing district (referred to as the "Downtown North TIF District")
for the Village of Western Springs with the adoption of the following
ordinances:
      1.   Western Springs ordinance 19-2989 (designating the Village of
Western Springs downtown north tax increment financing district redevelopment
project area).
      2.   Western Springs ordinance 19-2990 (approving the Village of Western
Springs downtown north tax increment financing district redevelopment project
area redevelopment plan and program).
      3.   Western Springs ordinance 19-2991 (adopting tax increment financing
for the Village of Western Springs downtown north tax increment financing
district).
   B.   Copies of the above-referenced ordinances and the map of the
redevelopment project area and the redevelopment project area redevelopment
plan and program for the downtown north TIF district are available on the
Village's website and from the Village Clerk's Office. (Ord. 19-2992, 12-16-
2019)
1-23-2: DESIGNATION OF TIF ADMINISTRATOR:
The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Western Springs designate
the Village Manager as the TIF Administrator for the downtown north TIF
district, who shall be responsible for performing all administrative duties and
compliance actions in regard to the downtown north TIF district, including
compliance with all annual filing and reporting requirements required by state
law (the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act (65 ILCS 5/11-
74.4-3 et seq.)), preparation and filing of the annual TIF Report with the
Office of the State of Illinois Comptroller, scheduling and coordination of the
annual joint board of review meetings, and such other duties as are necessary
to maintain compliance with applicable laws. (Ord. 19-2992, 12-16-2019)
CHAPTER 24
PSEBA BENEFIT ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
1-24-1: Purpose
1-24-2: Policy And Procedure For Administering Applications For PSEBA Benefits
1-24-3: Policy And Procedure For Hearings For PSEBA Benefits
1-24-4: PSEBA Benefits Granted By The Village
1-24-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and efficient method of
determining the eligibility of a full-time Village employee for the benefits
enumerated under the Public Safety Employee Benefits Act, 820 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 320/1, et seq., as amended ("PSEBA"). All benefits provided by the
Village to employees pursuant to the PSEBA shall be consistent with the PSEBA.
(Ord. 18-2922, 5-21-2018)
1-24-2: POLICY AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTERING APPLICATIONS FOR PSEBA BENEFITS:
   A.   Employees, or family member(s) of injured or deceased employees, who
may qualify for PSEBA benefits (hereinafter "applicant") must file a full and
complete application in writing with the Village Manager no later than sixty
(60) calendar days from the date of issuance of a written decision by the
Police Pension Fund Board or Firefighter Pension Fund Board, whichever is
applicable, granting a line of duty disability pension. Failure to timely file
a full and complete application shall result in a forfeiture of benefits under
PSEBA.
   B.   A complete application shall include the following:
      1.   The applicant's name and date of hire, detailed information
regarding the incident for which PSEBA benefits are sought, including
information relating to how the injury was sustained in the line of duty,
including the date, time, place, nature of injury, and other factual
circumstances surrounding the incident.
      2.   The applicant's firsthand knowledge explaining, to the Village's
satisfaction, how the injury directly resulted from:
         a.   Response to fresh pursuit;
         b.   Response to what is reasonably believed to be an emergency;
         c.   Response to an unlawful act perpetrated by another; or
         d.   The investigation of a criminal act.
      3.   A signed unconditional PSEBA medical authorization release which
authorizes the Village to collect information related to the incident
including, but not limited to, disability pension proceedings, worker's
compensation records, and medical records, and a complete list of the names and
addresses for all health care providers involved in the diagnosis, treatment,
review or handling of the injury for which PSEBA benefits are sought.
      4.   A signed unconditional PSEBA general information release specifying
the name and signature of the applicant or her/his authorized representative
along with legal proof of said representation and name and signature of witness
authorizing the collection of information necessary to review the application.
      5.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of witnesses to the
incident resulting in the injury for which PSEBA benefits are sought, along
with any statements of the witnesses which the applicant either possesses, may
obtain or is aware of.
      6.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of witnesses the
applicant intends to call at the PSEBA hearing, along with their anticipated
subjects of testimony and any opinions the witnesses are expected to give.
      7.   Information and documentation filed with the appropriate Pension
Board.
      8.   Information regarding other sources of health insurance benefits
currently enrolled in, received by, or available to the applicant and/or the
applicant's family members, including the source of the benefits and the
benefits provided or available.
      9.   Any other information supporting the PSEBA eligibility requirements.
   C.   The PSEBA application must be sworn to by the applicant and notarized
to certify the truthfulness of the application's contents. A review of the
application shall not occur until the application is complete.
   D.   On the date that the PSEBA application is deemed complete by the
Village, the completed application shall then be submitted to the Village
Manager as the preliminary record, and a copy of the same shall be date stamped
and provided to the applicant.
   E.   Upon receipt of a complete application for PSEBA benefits, the Village
Manager shall set the matter for an administrative hearing with the Village
Manager or his or her designee serving as the Hearing Officer to make a
determination on whether to grant the application and provide the applicant
with benefits under PSEBA.
   F.   The applicant shall be given written notice of the date for the
administrative hearing not less than ten (10) calendar days prior to the
commencement of the hearing. If the applicant, upon receiving written notice of
the administrative hearing, cannot attend said date, the applicant must contact
the Hearing Officer in writing within seven (7) calendar days after being
served. The Hearing Officer shall establish an alternative hearing date within
thirty (30) calendar days of the original hearing date. The applicant's failure
to appear at the administrative hearing shall result in denial of PSEBA
benefits.
   G.   The Village Manager may delegate any of his/her authority, duties and
obligations under this chapter, in whole or part, to a designee, or designees.
(Ord. 18-2922, 5-21-2018)
1-24-3: POLICY AND PROCEDURE FOR HEARINGS FOR PSEBA BENEFITS:
   A.   Hearing Officer: The Village Manager or his or her designee shall be
the Hearing Officer for hearings on applications for PSEBA benefits. The
Hearing Officer shall have all of the authorities granted under statute and
common law relative to the conduct of administrative hearings, including to:
      1.   Adopt, revise and enforce rules of procedure for hearings;
      2.   Preside over hearings;
      3.   Administer oaths;
      4.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the issue of
eligibility under PSEBA;
      5.   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses and the production
of relevant papers or documents upon the request of the parties, their
representatives or the Hearing Officer;
      6.   Rule upon objections to the admissibility of evidence;
      7.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits
in evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      8.   Issue a final written determination on each application for PSEBA
benefits based on the evidence presented at the hearing which shall include
findings of fact, decision and order.
   B.   Hearings: Hearings for the determination of eligibility for benefits
under PSEBA shall be initiated by the Village after the submission of a full
and complete PSEBA application, and a determination by the Hearing Officer that
it is appropriate to proceed with the hearing, which determination shall
include consideration of the status of any disability pension proceeding
related to the applicant and whether the disability pension proceeding has
resulted in a final and non-appealable decision. A hearing shall be held to
adjudicate and determine whether the applicant is eligible for benefits under
the PSEBA. If the applicant is found eligible, the PSEBA benefits provided to
the applicant shall be consistent with the PSEBA.
      1.   Record: Hearings shall be attended by a certified court reporter,
and a transcript of all proceedings shall be made by said certified court
reporter.
      2.   Procedures: The Village and the applicant shall be entitled to
representation by counsel at hearings and may present witnesses, testimony and
documents, may cross-examine opposing witnesses, and may request the issuance
by the Hearing Officer of subpoenas to compel the appearance of relevant
witnesses or the production of relevant documents. The Hearing Officer may
issue subpoenas to compel the appearance of relevant witnesses or the
production of relevant documents in his/her discretion.
      3.   Evidence: The Illinois Rules of Evidence shall apply to the extent
practicable unless, by such application, the Hearing Officer determines that
application of the rule would be an injustice or preclude the introduction of
evidence of the type commonly relied upon by a reasonably prudent person in the
conduct of her/his affairs. Such determination shall be in the sole discretion
of the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer must state on the record his or her
reason for that determination.
      4.   Final Determination: A written determination by the Hearing Officer
of whether the applicant is eligible for benefits under the PSEBA shall
constitute a final administrative determination for the purpose of judicial
review under the common law writ of certiorari. Motions to reconsider, set
aside or challenge the final determination of the Hearing Officer are not
permitted.
      5.   Burden Of Proof: At any administrative hearing, the applicant shall
have the obligation and burden of proof to establish that the applicant is
eligible and qualified to receive PSEBA benefits. The standard of proof in all
hearings shall be by the preponderance of the evidence. (Ord. 18-2922, 5-21-
2018)
1-24-4: PSEBA BENEFITS GRANTED BY THE VILLAGE:
   A.   Basic Group Insurance Plan: If an applicant is determined to be
eligible for PSEBA benefits, the applicant will be eligible to receive
continued health coverage consistent with the PSEBA under the Village's basic
group health insurance plan. The basic group health insurance plan shall be the
least expensive health plan offered to Village employees at the time PSEBA
benefits are awarded as determined solely by the Village from time to time.
PSEBA benefits do not include benefits not provided in the Village's basic
group health insurance plan, such as, but not limited to, dental, vision, life
insurance, etc.
   B.   Reduction Or Elimination Of PSEBA Benefits By Other Health Coverage: If
an applicant becomes eligible to receive health insurance benefits from any
other source, including, but not limited to, Medicare, the applicant's PSEBA
coverage may be reduced or eliminated as determined by the Village consistent
with PSEBA.
   C.   Affidavit Of Continued PSEBA Eligibility: All recipients of PSEBA
benefits from the Village shall complete and return to the Village Manager on
an annual basis an affidavit verifying the recipient's continued eligibility
for PSEBA benefits. The affidavit must be completed and returned to the Village
Manager within sixty (60) calendar days of written notice from the Village. If
the recipient does not complete and return the affidavit within the time
required, the Village Manager shall give the recipient an additional written
notice providing an additional thirty (30) calendar days for the recipient to
complete and return the affidavit. Failure to return the affidavit within the
time required shall result in the recipient incurring responsibility for
reimbursing the Village for premiums paid during the period the affidavit is
due and not filed. (Ord. 18-2922, 5-21-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ADVISORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Creation
2-1-2: Appointment; Membership
2-1-3: Removal From Office
2-1-4: Duties
2-1-5: Chair; Organization; Records; Meeting Minutes
2-1-6: Compensation
2-1-7: Meetings
2-1-8: Public Comment Participation Guidelines At Meetings
2-1-1: CREATION:
The administrative service of the Village shall include under the President and
Board of Trustees the following advisory boards and commissions hereby created:
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
Board of Local Improvements
Board of Zoning Appeals
Economic Development Commission
Firefighters' Pension Board (Fire Pension Board)
Infrastructure Commission
Joint Emergency Telephone System Board
Local Liquor Control Commission
Plan Commission
Police Pension Board
Recreation Commission
Technology Commission
Transportation and Safety Commission
(Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000; amd. Ord. 01-2187, 12-17-2001; Ord. 04-2291, 4-26-
2004; Ord. 15-2816, 11-23-2015)
2-1-2: APPOINTMENT; MEMBERSHIP:
Each advisory board or commission member shall be appointed by the Village
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees unless otherwise
prescribed by State Statute or this Code. The members shall be appointed from
the community at large, and serve for a term designated by State Statutes or
this Code. Any vacancy occurring shall be filled for the remainder of the
unexpired term in the same manner as in the case of the original appointment.
One of the members of the Board of Trustees shall be appointed by the Village
President to act as liaison between the Board of Trustees and each advisory
board and commission. The Village Manager or his designee shall serve as staff
liaison to each advisory board and commission. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-1-3: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
Any advisory board or commission member may be removed, unless otherwise
prescribed by State Statute or this Code, by the Village President for failure
to attend meetings or inattention to duties. The Village President must report
the reasons for the removal to the Board of Trustees at a meeting to be held
not less than five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days after the removal. If
the Village President fails or refuses to report to the Board of Trustees the
reasons for the removal, or if the Board of Trustees by a two-thirds (2/3) vote
of all the members of the Board of Trustees disapproves of the removal, the
member of the advisory board or commission shall be restored to membership on
the advisory board or commission in question. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-1-4: DUTIES:
Each board or commission shall act as an advisory body to the Board of Trustees
regarding specific problems referred to it by this Code, a stand alone
ordinance, a resolution, the Village President, Board of Trustees or the
Village Manager. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-1-5: CHAIR; ORGANIZATION; RECORDS; MEETING MINUTES:
A Chair for each advisory board or commission shall be appointed by the Village
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees unless otherwise
prescribed by statute or this Code. The Chair shall preside at the meetings of
the advisory board or commission and shall otherwise supervise the affairs of
the board or commission. It shall be the Chair's duty to maintain a written
record of the proceedings of the advisory board or commission, which shall at
all times be open to inspection by the Board of Trustees, staff, local media
and the general public. Each board, committee and commission shall approve
minutes of their open meetings within thirty (30) days after that meeting, or
at the second subsequent regular meeting thereafter, whichever is later. Any
Chair may be removed by the Village President for failure to attend meetings or
inattention to duties or by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members of the Board
of Trustees unless otherwise prescribed by statute or this Code. (Ord. 11-2613,
1-24-2011)
2-1-6: COMPENSATION:
No member of any advisory board or commission shall receive any compensation
for serving; except, that to assist in the maintenance of records, a Secretary
may be appointed by the Village Manager or his designee and paid such
compensation as the Village Manager or his designee shall authorize. (Ord. 00-
2111, 1-24-2000)
2-1-7: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the advisory boards and commissions shall be public meetings held
according to the schedule in this Code and notice of said meetings shall be
given in accordance with State Statutes. A quorum shall consist of a simple
majority of those members appointed to the advisory board or commission at any
time, and no official business shall be conducted without a quorum of members
present. The advisory board or commission may adopt its own rules of procedure
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Code. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-1-8: PUBLIC COMMENT PARTICIPATION GUIDELINES AT MEETINGS:
The guidelines set forth at section
1-21-3, "Public Comment Participation Guidelines At Public Meetings", of this
Code shall apply to every board, commission, committee and subcommittee of the
Village. (Ord. 11-2613, 1-24-2011)
CHAPTER 2
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment; Membership; Terms Of Office
2-2-2: Meetings
2-2-3: Powers And Duties
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a plan commission for the village. The plan commission
shall consist of seven (7) members. The members shall be appointed from the
community at large, and serve for a term of three (3) years. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-
24-2000)
2-2-2: MEETINGS:
The plan commission shall meet at the village hall once a month on a regular
date or more often if requested by the board, the village manager or the
manager's designee. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The plan commission shall have powers and duties as provided in title 10 of
this code. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Establishment; Membership; Terms Of Office
2-3-2: Qualifications; Oath, Bond And Removal
2-3-3: Officers
2-3-4: Meetings
2-3-5: Powers And Duties
2-3-6: Reimbursement Agreement For Recovery Of Training, Certification And
Equipment Costs
2-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a board of fire and police commissioners (hereinafter
in this chapter to be known as the "BOFPC") consisting of three (3) members as
provided by state statute. The members shall be appointed from the community at
large, and serve for a term of three (3) years or until their respective
successors are appointed and have qualified; provided that no such appointments
shall be made by any president within thirty (30) days before the expiration of
the president's term of office. (Ord. 15-2825, 12-21-2015)
2-3-2: QUALIFICATIONS; OATH, BOND AND REMOVAL:
The BOFPC shall have such qualifications as are now, or may hereafter be
required of them by state statute. Each member of the BOFPC shall take an oath
or affirmation of office and shall execute and deliver such sureties as the
board of trustees shall approve, conditioned upon the faithful performance of
the duties of office. In the event the village maintains in force a blanket
coverage surety bond which includes coverage for each member of the BOFPC, the
members of the BOFPC shall not be required to furnish a bond as provided
herein. In either case, the cost of the surety bond will be borne by the
village.
No person shall be appointed as a member of the BOFPC who is related, either by
blood or marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to any village elected
official. No more than two (2) members of the BOFPC shall belong to the same
political party in the village. If no local political party exists at the time
of the appointment of BOFPC members to office, then state or national political
party affiliations shall be utilized.
BOFPC members can only be removed for cause and upon written charges being
filed. BOFPC members must be given an opportunity to be heard to present their
defense within thirty (30) days before a regular meeting of the board of
trustees. A simple majority vote of the board of trustees shall be required to
remove a BOFPC member from office after the proper hearing. (Ord. 15-2825, 12-
21-2015)
2-3-3: OFFICERS:
The BOFPC is to elect annually from their body a chair. (Ord. 15-2825, 12-21-
2015)
2-3-4: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the BOFPC shall be on call at the village hall. (Ord. 15-2825, 12-
21-2015)
2-3-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The BOFPC shall have such powers and duties as are now, or as may hereafter be
given to it, by state statute and this code. (Ord. 15-2825, 12-21-2015)
2-3-6: REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT FOR RECOVERY OF TRAINING, CERTIFICATION AND
EQUIPMENT COSTS:
All persons who apply for entry level police officer and full time firefighter
positions with the village shall, as a condition of application for employment
with the village, sign a reimbursement agreement prepared by the village that
requires the repayment, on a prorated basis, of the training, certification and
equipment costs that the village pays on behalf of the applicant after he or
she is hired by the village, in the event that the applicant's employment with
the village ends within thirty six (36) months of being hired by the village
due to any reason other than termination by the village or injury or illness
that prevents continued employment. The reimbursement agreement shall be in a
form that has been approved by the village and shall be attached to the village
employment application form that is used for entry level police officer and
full time firefighter positions. The following individuals are authorized to
sign the reimbursement agreement on behalf of the village during the employment
application process and no further village approval shall be necessary for the
reimbursement agreement to be valid and enforceable: the village manager, each
member of the board of fire and police commissioners, the fire chief and the
police chief. (Ord. 15-2825, 12-21-2015)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Establishment; Membership; Terms Of Office
2-4-2: Meetings
2-4-3: Powers And Duties
2-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a board of local improvements for the village. This
board shall consist of the village president, who shall be president of the
board of local improvements, and all members of the board of trustees. (Ord.
00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-4-2: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the board of local improvements shall be on-call at the village
hall. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-4-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of local improvements shall have the powers and shall perform the
duties prescribed by the state statutes and this code. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-
2000)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Establishment; Membership; Terms Of Office; Removal From Office
2-5-2: Meetings
2-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
There is hereby created a board of zoning appeals, consisting of seven (7)
members, who shall have the powers and duties as provided in title 10 of this
code. The members shall be appointed from the community at large, and serve for
a term of five (5) years. A member may be removed by the village president and
board of trustees for failure to attend meetings, inattention to duties or for
other cause after a public hearing before the board of trustees. (Ord. 00-2111,
1-24-2000)
2-5-2: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the board of zoning appeals shall be on-call at the village hall.
(Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
CHAPTER 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Establishment; Membership; Terms Of Office
2-6-2: Purpose
2-6-3: Meetings
2-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby established an economic development commission which shall
consist of seven (7) regular members, and one (1) advisory member, selected
from the village business community and the community at large. All members
shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years, except for the first three
(3) appointments made after June 1, 2009, who shall serve for a term of two (2)
years. One (1) additional, non-voting advisory member who is a representative
of the Western Springs business association (WSBA) may be appointed at the
discretion of the village board. This advisory member may provide feedback to
the commission regarding matters relevant to the business community. All
members shall be appointed by the village president with the advice and consent
of the board of trustees. (Ord. 09-2540, 6-22-2009; amd. Ord. 21-3037, 3-29-
2021)
2-6-2: PURPOSE:
The economic development commission shall be advisory to the board of trustees
in all areas of economic development of the village including the maintaining
of communication between the business community and the village government, the
promotion of economic growth of its business districts, and other such matters
referred to the commission by the village president, board of trustees or
village manager. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-6-3: MEETINGS:
The economic development commission shall meet on call at the village hall.
(Ord. 02-2195, 1-28-2002)
CHAPTER 7
RECREATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-7-1: Establishment; Membership; Terms Of Office
2-7-2: Purpose
2-7-3: Meetings
2-7-4: Gifts And Bequests
2-7-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a recreation commission of five (5) members. All
members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-
2000)
2-7-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the recreation commission shall be as follows:
   A.   To advise the board of trustees on matters relating to the
administration, operation and provision of recreation programs for the village;
   B.   To advise the board of trustees regarding the maintenance, equipping
and operation of the community and recreation center and any other recreational
facilities;
   C.   To advise the board of trustees regarding other matters relating to
recreational facilities and recreation programs which are referred to the
recreation commission;
   D.   To advise the director of recreation on a regular basis regarding the
development of a comprehensive recreation program for the village. (Ord. 00-
2111, 1-24-2000)
2-7-3: MEETINGS:
Regular meetings of the recreation commission shall be held on the first
Thursday of March, July, September and November, and special meetings shall be
held on an on-call basis at the recreation center or the village hall.
(Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000; amd. Ord. 22-3070, 3-21-2022)
2-7-4: GIFTS AND BEQUESTS:
The board of trustees or their designee(s) may accept any grant or devise of
real estate or any gift or bequest of money or other personal property or any
donation, the principal or income of which is to be applied for either
temporary or permanent use for recreation purposes. Money received by the
village for such purpose shall be deposited with the village treasurer. (Ord.
00-2111, 1-24-2000)
CHAPTER 8
TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Establishment; Membership; Terms Of Office
2-8-2: Meetings
2-8-3: Purpose
2-8-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a transportation and safety commission which shall
consist of seven (7) members. All members shall be appointed for a term of
three (3) years. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-8-2: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the commission shall be held not less than quarterly at the village
hall. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-8-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the transportation and safety commission shall be as follows:
   A.   To advise the board of trustees on matters relating to transportation
and transit systems of the village in general, including local streets and
roads; county, state and federal highways; and mass transportation, including,
but not limited to, rail and bus transit.
   B.   To consult, cooperate and coordinate with the plan commission,
operating departments of the village and other governmental bodies on matters
relating to transportation and transit systems of the village.
   C.   To advise the board of trustees regarding other matters relating to
transportation, transit, traffic and safety which are referred to the
transportation and safety commission.
   D.   To perform such other duties and be of such other assistance as may be
from time to time assigned by the board of trustees. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-20000)
CHAPTER 9
JOINT EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD
SECTION:
2-9-1: Establishment; Membership; Authority And Duties
2-9-2: Dissolution Of Local ETSB; Re-Instatement
2-9-3: Use Of ETSB Funds; Surcharge Funds
2-9-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; AUTHORITY AND DUTIES:
   A.   Establishment: Pursuant to resolution 15-2336 (adopted on November 23,
2015), the Village approved an Intergovernmental Agreement entitled
"Intergovernmental Agreement Entered Into by the Villages of La Grange, La
Grange Park and Western Springs to Establish an Intergovernmental Cooperative
Venture Known as the 'Lyons Township Area Communications Center' for the
Operation and Maintenance of a Combined Dispatch and Communication System" (the
"LTACC Intergovernmental Agreement") that provided for the establishment of an
intergovernmental cooperative venture known as the "Lyons Township Area
Communications Center" (also referred to as "LTACC") for the operation and
maintenance of a centralized, combined emergency services dispatch and
communication system that includes 9-1-1 services and wireless E-9-1-1 services
(the "system"). The LTACC Intergovernmental Agreement also provided for the
creation of the LTACC's Joint Emergency Telephone System Board.
   B.   Membership; Authority And Duties: The members of LTACC's Joint
Emergency Telephone System Board shall be comprised of the members of the
LTACC's Operating Board. The authority and duties of LTACC's Joint Emergency
Telephone System Board shall be governed by article V (Operating Board) of the
LTACC Intergovernmental Agreement and the Emergency Telephone System Act 1  and
any other applicable laws. (Ord. 15-2816, 11-23-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 750/1 et seq.
2-9-2: DISSOLUTION OF LOCAL ETSB; RE-INSTATEMENT:
   A.   Dissolution Of Local ETSB: Pursuant to the ordinance codified herein,
the Village's ETSB was dissolved effective upon the date of the regulatory
approval of the LTACC and LTACC's JETSB by the Illinois Commerce Commission
("ICC") or the 9-1-1 Administrator of the Illinois Department of State Police.
   B.   Re-Instatement Of Local ETSB: In the event the Village withdraws from
participation in LTACC, to the extent permitted by applicable laws and
regulations, the Village will either take the necessary corporate actions to
re-instate its local ETSB or join another Joint Emergency Telephone System
Board. (Ord. 15-2816, 11-23-2015)
2-9-3: USE OF ETSB FUNDS; SURCHARGE FUNDS:
   A.   Use Of ETSB Funds: Under the LTACC Intergovernmental Agreement, the
Village, in its own discretion, may use or expend any of its ETSB funds,
including any surcharge funds, to pay for budgeted items or obligations that
exist in its current 2015/2016 ETSB budget in accordance with the applicable
laws, including the Emergency Telephone System Act 1 , the Wireless Emergency
Telephone Safety Act 2  and the Prepaid Wireless 9-1-1 Surcharge Act 3 .
   B.   Surcharge Funds: Upon dissolution of the Village's ETSB and subject to
the terms of the intergovernmental agreement and the Village's continued
participation in LTACC, all monies received or collected by the Village that
are intended to be used to pay for the operation and maintenance of LTACC's
system from any surcharge or revenue source authorized by any Federal or State
law, including section 15.3 of the Emergency Telephone System Act 4 , the
Wireless Emergency Telephone Safety Act 5  and the Prepaid Wireless 9-1-
1 Surcharge Act 6 , shall be transferred to the LTACC for deposit and
expenditure by the LTACC JETSB in accordance with applicable Federal or State
law. (Ord. 15-2816, 11-23-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 750/1 et seq.
2 2. 50 ILCS 751/1 et seq.
3 3. 50 ILCS 753/1 et seq.
4 4. 50 ILCS 750/15.3.
5 5. 50 ILCS 751/1 et seq.
6 6. 50 ILCS 753/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 10
FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION BOARD (FIRE PENSION BOARD)
SECTION:
2-10-1: Establishment Of The Pension Fund
2-10-2: Composition Of The Pension Fund
2-10-3: Board Of Trustees Of The Fire Pension Fund
2-10-4: Elected Members Of The Board Of Trustees
2-10-5: Officers
2-10-6: Meetings
2-10-7: Compensation
2-10-8: Powers And Duties
2-10-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PENSION FUND:
The village hereby adopts the provisions of act 5, article 4 of the Illinois
pension code, as amended and entitled "firefighters' pension fund –
municipalities 500,000 and under" (hereinafter to be referred to as the "fire
pension fund"). The fire pension fund shall be established and administered in
accordance with the provisions of said article 4, for the benefit of the
village's firefighters and their surviving spouses, children and certain other
dependents. Pensions shall be paid and said fund shall be held, invested and
disbursed as provided in said act. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-10-2: COMPOSITION OF THE PENSION FUND:
There shall be set apart by the village treasurer the following monies which
shall constitute the fire pension fund:
   A.   All monies derived from taxes levied pursuant to state statute for the
fire pension fund.
   B.   Eight and four hundred fifty five-hundredths percent (8.455%) per month
from July 1, 2004, which shall be paid or deducted from the salary of each full
time firefighter.
   C.   All rewards in monies, fees, gifts and emoluments that may be paid or
given for or on account of extraordinary services by the fire department or any
member of the department, except when allowed to be retained by competitive
awards, shall be paid into the fire pension fund.
   D.   Any other money, real property, or personal property received by the
board of trustees of the fire pension fund in accordance with state statutes.
(Ord. 05-2377, 12-19-2005)
2-10-3: BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE FIRE PENSION FUND:
There is hereby created a board of trustees (the "board") of the fire pension
fund to provide for the administration of said fund as provided by state
statutes. Prior to the third Monday in April, 2006, the board shall consist of
nine (9) members or such other number as provided by the same statutes. The
board shall consist of the village president, village clerk, village attorney,
village treasurer, director of fire and inspectional services, three (3) active
full time firefighters, if any, and a retired firefighter, if any.
Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, the term of
office of each member of a board established on or before the third Monday in
April, 2006, shall terminate on the third Monday in April, 2006, but all
incumbent members shall continue to exercise all of the powers and be subject
to all of the duties of a member of the board until all the new members of the
board take office.
Beginning on the third Monday in April, 2006, the board for each municipality
or fire protection district shall consist of five (5) members. Two (2) members
of the board shall be appointed by the mayor or president of the board of
trustees of the municipality or fire protection district involved. Two (2)
members of the board shall be active participants of the pension fund who are
elected from the active participants of the fund. One member of the board shall
be a person who is retired under the firemen's pension fund act of 1919 or this
chapter. (Ord. 05-2377, 12-19-2005)
2-10-4: ELECTED MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Active Firefighters: Two (2) active firefighters shall serve on the
board and are to be elected only from and by the active firefighters on the
third Monday in April of the applicable year. They are to be elected by secret
ballot for a term of three (3) years. Elected representatives to the board
should merit the confidence of their fellow firefighters and should have an
interest in and be willing to serve the fire pension fund.
   B.   Retired Firefighter: The retired firefighter to be elected to the board
is to be elected only from and by the retired firefighters on the third Monday
in April of the applicable year. The retired firefighter is to be elected by
secret ballot for a term of three (3) years.
   C.   Voting; Terms Of Office; Unexpired Terms: In case of a tie vote, the
fire pension board shall determine by lot who has been elected. No person shall
be entitled to cast more than one ballot at such election. The term of elected
members shall be three (3) years and until a successor has been duly elected
and qualified. Upon the death, resignation or inability to act of any elected
board member, his or her successor shall be elected for the unexpired term at a
special election, to be called by the board and conducted in the same manner as
the regular election. (Ord. 05-2377, 12-19-2005)
2-10-5: OFFICERS:
The fire pension board is to elect annually from their body a president and a
secretary. The village treasurer shall be the treasurer of the fire pension
fund. The village treasurer has custody of all assets of the fund and is to be
bonded for the faithful performance of duties. The village treasurer shall keep
the financial records of the fire pension fund and sign all checks in
accordance with direction given by the board and/or state statute. Signature
cards at financial institutions should reflect the village treasurer as the
principal signer. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-10-6: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the fire pension board shall be held on call at the village hall.
(Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-10-7: COMPENSATION:
The board shall not receive any salary from the pension fund for services
performed as board members. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-10-8: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of the fire pension fund shall have all of the powers, duties and
obligations conferred or imposed upon it by state statutes and this code. (Ord.
00-2111, 1-24-2000)
CHAPTER 11
INFRASTRUCTURE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-11-1: Establishment; Membership; Terms Of Office
2-11-2: Meetings
2-11-3: Duties
2-11-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created an infrastructure commission which shall consist of
seven (7) members. The members of the commission shall hold office for the term
of three (3) years. (Ord. 01-2187, 12-17-2001)
2-11-2: MEETINGS:
The infrastructure commission shall meet at the village hall every other month
on a regular date, or more often as necessary to complete their work. Special
meetings of the commission may also be called by the village president, or the
chairman of the public works and water committee. (Ord. 01-2187, 12-17-2001)
2-11-3: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the infrastructure commission to advise the president
and board of trustees on such matters related to the village's infrastructure
as are requested by the president and board of trustees for advice and counsel.
Infrastructure shall include the village's streets and alleys, sidewalks,
street lighting system, potable water system, sewer systems, cable TV system
and such other utilities as may occupy the village's public rights of way. The
infrastructure commission shall also have those other specific duties as may
from time to time be delegated by the president and board of trustees. (Ord.
01-2187, 12-17-2001)
CHAPTER 12
POLICE PENSION BOARD
SECTION:
2-12-1: Establishment Of The Pension Fund
2-12-2: Composition Of The Pension Fund
2-12-3: Board Of Trustees Of The Police Pension Fund; Terms Of Office
2-12-4: Officers
2-12-5: Elected Members Of The Board Of Trustees; Terms Of Office
2-12-6: Meetings
2-12-7: Compensation
2-12-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PENSION FUND:
The village hereby adopts the provisions of act 5, article 3 of the Illinois
pension code, as amended, entitled "Police Pension Fund – Municipalities
500,000 and Under" (hereinafter referred to as the "Police Pension Fund"). The
police pension fund shall be established and administered in accordance with
the provisions of said article 3, for the benefit of the village's police
officers and their surviving spouses, children, and certain other dependents.
(Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-12-2: COMPOSITION OF THE PENSION FUND:
There shall be set apart by the village treasurer the following monies which
shall constitute the police pension fund:
   A.   All monies derived from the taxes levied pursuant to state statutes for
the police pension fund.
   B.   Nine percent (9%) per month, from January 1, 1987, which shall be paid
or deducted from the salary of each full-time police officer.
   C.   All monies which may have been accumulated by the village in conformity
with any previous legislation establishing a fund for the benefit of disabled
or superannuated police officers.
   D.   Donations, gifts or other transfers authorized by state statutes for
the police pension fund. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-12-3: BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE POLICE PENSION FUND; TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a board of trustees (the "Board") of the police pension
fund to provide for the administration of said fund and to designate the
beneficiaries thereof as provided by state statute. The board shall consist of
five (5) members.
Two (2) members of the board shall be appointed by the village president. Two
(2) members of the board shall be elected from the active participants of the
pension fund by such active participants, if any. One member shall be elected
by and from the beneficiaries, if any. The members of the board appointed by
the village president shall hold office for the term of two (2) years each or
until their successors are appointed and have qualified. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-
2000)
2-12-4: OFFICERS:
The police pension board is to elect annually at the regular July meeting from
their body a president, vice president, secretary and assistant secretary. The
village treasurer shall perform all of the duties, functions and activities in
regard to collection and administration of the pension funds on behalf of the
police pension board as provided for by state statute. The village treasurer
has custody of all assets of the police pension fund and is to be bonded for
the faithful performance of duties. The village treasurer shall keep the
financial records of the police pension fund and sign all checks in accordance
with direction given by the board or state statute. Signature cards at
financial institutions should reflect the village treasurer as the principal
signer. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-12-5: ELECTED MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES; TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Biennial Election: The election for board members shall be held
biennially on the third Monday in April, at such place or places in the village
and by secret ballot and such other regulations as shall be prescribed by the
appointed members of the board. Elected representatives to the board should
merit the confidence of their fellow police officers and should have an
interest in and be willing to serve the police pension fund. Pensions shall be
paid and said fund shall be held, invested and disbursed as provided in said
act.
   B.   Active Police Officers: The two (2) active police officers to serve on
the board are to be elected only from and by the active police officers on the
third Monday in April of the applicable year. They are to be elected by secret
ballot for a term of two (2) years.
   C.   Retired Police Officer: The retired police officer to be elected to the
board is to be elected only from and by the retired police officers on the
third Monday in April of the applicable year. The retired police officer(s) is
to be elected by secret ballot for a term of two (2) years.
   D.   Tie Votes: In case of a tie vote, the police pension board shall
determine by lot who has been elected and in the event that any elected member
is unable to serve his complete term, a special election for the unexpired term
shall be held in the same manner as the regular election.
   E.   Voting; Terms Of Office; Unexpired Terms: The active pension fund
participants shall be entitled to vote only for the active participant members
of the board. All beneficiaries of legal age may vote only for the member
chosen from among the beneficiaries. No person shall be entitled to cast more
than one ballot at such election. The term of elected members shall be two (2)
years, beginning on the second Tuesday of the first May after the election.
Upon the death, resignation or inability to act of any elected board member,
his or her successor shall be elected for the unexpired term at a special
election, to be called by the board and conducted in the same manner as the
regular biennial election. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-12-6: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the police pension board shall be held annually on a quarterly
basis in July, October, January and April at the village hall. (Ord. 00-2111,
1-24-2000)
2-12-7: COMPENSATION:
The board members shall not receive nor have any right to receive any salary
from the pension fund for services performed as board members. (Ord. 00-2111,
1-24-2000)
CHAPTER 13
LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-13-1: Establishment; Membership; Terms Of Office
2-13-2: Meetings
2-13-3: Powers And Duties
2-13-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a local liquor control commission for the village. The
local liquor control commission shall consist of three (3) members. The members
shall be appointed from the community at large, and serve for a term of three
(3) years. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-13-2: MEETINGS:
The local liquor control commission shall meet at the village hall on-call as
requested by the local liquor control commissioner (the village president).
(Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
2-13-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The local liquor control commission shall have the powers and duties as
provided in title 4 of this code. (Ord. 00-2111, 1-24-2000)
CHAPTER 14
TECHNOLOGY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-14-1: Establishment; Membership Terms Of Office
2-14-2: Meetings
2-14-3: Powers And Duties
2-14-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a technology commission for the village. The technology
commission shall consist of seven (7) members. The members shall be appointed
from the community at large, and serve for a term of three (3) years, except
for those initially appointed to the commission, whose terms shall be staggered
as determined by the village president at the time of the passage date hereof.
(Ord. 04-2291, 4-26-2004)
2-14-2: MEETINGS:
The technology commission shall meet at the village hall once a month on a
regular date as annually established, or more often if requested by the village
president, the village board or the village manager. (Ord. 04-2291, 4-26-2004)
2-14-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The technology commission shall have powers and duties as provided below:
To advise the president and board of trustees on matters related to emerging
technologies in the communications, telecommunications, and related fields and
as to their most beneficial deployment for the benefit of the village's
residents, businesses, institutions, and other organizations.
To advise the president and board of trustees on such matters as may be
assigned from time to time. (Ord. 04-2291, 4-26-2004)
CHAPTER 15
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD
SECTION:
2-15-1: Establishment; Membership;Terms Of Office
2-15-2: Meetings
2-15-3: Powers And Duties
2-15-4: Duties Of Officers
2-15-1: ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   With the passage of Public Act 102-0740, effective January 1, 2023,
that amended certain provisions of the Illinois Foreign Fire Insurance License
Fee Act, a division of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-10) and the
adoption of Ordinance No. 23-3132, the corporate authorities of the Village
have created the Western Springs Foreign Fire Insurance Board. The object and
sole function of this Foreign Fire Insurance Board is to provide all needful
rules and regulations governing its officers and its operation, and to manage
the monies received from fire insurance companies to be used for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department in accordance with 60 ILCS
5/11-10 (“Western Springs Foreign Fire Insurance Tax Fund”).
   B.   The Western Springs Foreign Fire Insurance Tax Fund is hereby created
and shall consist of all fees collected from fire insurance companies under the
Foreign Fire Insurance License Fee Act by the Western Springs Foreign Fire
Insurance Board. The Fund shall be managed, maintained and overseen by the
Western Springs Foreign Fire Insurance Board and shall be used for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department.
   C.   The Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall include the Fire Chief, who
shall hold office by virtue of rank, and six (6) members, who shall be elected
at large by the sworn members of the Fire Department. The Board shall consist
of these seven (7) trustees, comprised the Fire Chief and six (6) trustees who
are elected annually from among the sworn members of the Fire Department, and
shall serve for terms of one (1) year.
   D.   The officers of this Board shall consist of a Chairperson, Secretary
and Treasurer, and any other offices deemed necessary by the members of the
Board. These officers shall be elected at an annual meeting established by
Board rules. A vacancy occurring in an office shall be filled through election
at a Board meeting which shall be held within two (2) weeks of the occurrence
of the vacancy. If the office of Treasurer becomes vacant, the Chairperson
shall assume those duties until a new Treasurer is elected. (Ord. 23-3132, 4-
24-2023)
2-15-2: MEETINGS:
Regular meetings of this Board shall be held in accordance with the Open
Meetings Act, subject to meeting protocol rules adopted by the Board. Special
meetings may be called by the Chairperson, forty-eight (48) hours’ written
notice having been given. The annual meeting date shall be established in the
Board rules, at which time the election of officers shall occur. (Ord. 23-3132,
4-24-2023)
2-15-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall oversee, maintain and manage the
Western Springs Foreign Fire Insurance Tax Fund.
   B.   The Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall develop and maintain a listing
of those goods, services and items that it feels are appropriate expenditures
under the Foreign Fire Insurance License Fee Act, in that they are for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the Western Springs Department of Fire and
Emergency Medical Services.
   C.   The Foreign Fire Insurance Board may contract for the purchase of goods
and services using Foreign Fire Insurance Tax funds paid to the Board.
Contracting for services may include, but is not limited to, the procurement
and payment of all accounting, legal, collection or other professional services
deemed by the Board to be necessary to the execution of its duties under the
Foreign Fire Insurance License Fee Act.
   D.   The Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall make all needful rules and
regulations with respect to the Foreign Fire Insurance Board, and the
management of the funds to be paid to the Board.
   E.   All monies shall be deposited in accordance with State law on investing
public funds in an interest bearing account at a local FDIC insured depository
selected by the Treasurer and qualified for the deposit of public funds under
State law.
   F.   All monies collected from fire insurance companies pursuant to 65 ILCS
5/11-10 shall be paid to the Foreign Fire Insurance Board Treasurer and
deposited into the Foreign Fire Insurance Tax Fund as established above. Such
monies may be used only upon order of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the Department. These funds shall be audited on
an annual basis to verify that the funds have been expended by that Board only
for the maintenance, use, and benefit of the department using funds paid to the
Board. (Ord. 23-3132, 4-24-2023)
2-15-4: DUTIES OF OFFICERS:
   A.   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Foreign Fire
Insurance Board, may call for special meetings and shall perform all other
duties as set forth in the rules of the Board.
   B.   All officers shall:
      1.   Perform the duties prescribed in the rules of the Board and by
applicable statute in addition to those outlined above and those assigned from
time to time;
      2.   Deliver to their successors all official records and other materials
within seven (7) calendar days following the meeting at which the successors
take office or immediately upon resignation or otherwise leaving the
Department. (Ord. 23-2132, 4-24-2023)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required; Eligibility If Debt Owed To Village
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Subjects Of Licensing Authority
3-1-4: Granting Licenses And Permits
3-1-5: Register Of Licenses
3-1-6: Forms And Signatures
3-1-7: Application For License Or Permit
3-1-8: Investigation Of Applicant
3-1-9: Approval; Disapproval; Issuance
3-1-10: License Term; Expiration; Renewal
3-1-11: When More Than One License Required
3-1-12: License To Be Posted; Destruction Or Removal Of License
3-1-13: Building And Premises Requirements
3-1-14: Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-15: Working Conditions
3-1-16: Additional Requirements For Businesses Open To Public
3-1-17: Inspections
3-1-18: Adoption By Reference
3-1-19: Enforcement
3-1-20: Suspension Or Revocation Of License Or Permit
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; ELIGIBILITY IF DEBT OWED TO VILLAGE:
No person shall conduct or manage any business, occupation, activity or
establishment, by himself, or through an agent, employee or partner, for which
a license is required by this Code or by any Municipal ordinance, without first
having obtained a license for such business, occupation, activity or
establishment.
   A.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: No Village approval, certificate,
license or permit shall be granted or issued to a person who owes any fee,
fine, payment, penalty or debt to the Village, and no such person shall be
allowed to apply for a Village approval, certificate, license or permit of any
kind or register himself/herself/itself or any family members to participate in
any Village programs and activities (e.g., recreation department programs),
unless and until the outstanding fee, fine, payment, penalty or debt is: (a)
paid; or (b) being actively contested in accordance with applicable Village
policies or procedures; or (c) discharged by action and authority of the
corporate authorities or the village manager in accordance with applicable
Village policies or procedures. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd.
Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The businesses, occupations, activities and establishments licensed by this
Code shall be defined as stated in this Code. Lacking definition in this Code,
they shall be defined as is stated in the Illinois Compiled Statutes. Lacking
explicit definition in either this Code or the Illinois Compiled Statutes, the
businesses, occupations, activities and establishments licensed by this Code
shall be defined by the Village Clerk according to common usage. (Ord. 81-1601,
11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-1-3: SUBJECTS OF LICENSING AUTHORITY:
Whenever a license or permit is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, a person shall be subject to the requirement, if by
himself, or through an agent, employee or partner, he is held forth as being
engaged in the business, activity or occupation or if he solicits patronage
actively or passively, or he performs or attempts to perform any part of such
business, activity or occupation in the Village. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981,
eff. 1-1-1982)
3-1-4: GRANTING LICENSES AND PERMITS:
Except where otherwise provided, all licenses and permits authorized or
required by this Code shall be granted by the Village Clerk, who shall have
power to hear and grant applications, and to pass upon the sufficiency of any
bond, where bond is required. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-1-5: REGISTER OF LICENSES:
The Village Clerk shall keep a register of all licenses issued, entering
therein the name of the person licensed, the date of the license, the business
or purpose for which it is granted, the number of operating units (e.g.,
vehicles, bowling alleys, barber chairs, and so forth), if any, upon which the
amount of the license fee is based and the amount of any license fee paid.
(Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-1-6: FORMS AND SIGNATURES:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the Village Clerk. Each license shall be dated and
shall state to whom it is issued, for what purpose, the location, if any, at
which business is to be conducted, and the date when the license is to expire.
In addition, each license shall bear the signature of the Village President and
Village Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (Ord. 81-1601,
11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
3-1-7: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Application for a license or permit shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk, in the absence of a provision to the contrary. Such application shall be
made on a form provided by the Clerk for that purpose. The applicant shall
state, in all cases, the name and business address of the applicant, also, if
by a firm, the names and addresses of each general partner, and if by a
corporation, the names and addresses of the principal officers. In addition,
the application shall set forth a description of the business or thing for
which license or permit is sought, the location or proposed location of such
business, the number of employees and of vehicles employed, if any, and such
other information as may be required by this Code in regard to the particular
application. The application shall be signed by the applicant. Forms for all
licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be prepared and kept on
file by the Village Clerk under the general direction of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
3-1-8: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Where this Code authorizes or necessitates an investigation or inspection by
any department or official of the Village before the issuance of a license, and
requires the approval by such department or official regarding the proper
location or condition of the premises in which the business, occupation or
activity for which a license is applied to be managed, conducted, operated or
carried on, or regarding the condition and nature of the equipment and methods
intended to be used by the applicant in such business, occupation or activity,
then the Clerk shall transmit to the appropriate official or department such
information necessary for the required investigation or inspection. (Ord. 81-
1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-1-9: APPROVAL; DISAPPROVAL; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Unless otherwise expressly provided, the Village Clerk shall have the
authority to hear and grant applications for all licenses, but no license shall
be issued by the Clerk to any applicant unless and until such applicant shall
have complied with all provisions of this Code and unless such applicant shall
be a suitable and proper person to be licensed. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff.
1-1-1982)
   B.   Where any license is authorized to be issued, such license shall be
signed by the Village President and countersigned by the Village Clerk and the
Corporate Seal of the Village affixed thereto. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff.
1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
   C.   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the Clerk shall
determine that the application is satisfactory, he shall approve the
application. Thereupon the Village Clerk shall notify the applicant that the
application has been approved. The license shall be signed by the President and
by the Clerk and then issued to the licensee.
   D.   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and related investigative and inspection reports, the Clerk shall
determine that matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory, he shall
disapprove the application, indicating the reasons therefor. Thereupon, the
Clerk shall notify the applicant that the application has not been approved and
that no license or permit will be issued. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-
1982)
3-1-10: LICENSE TERM; EXPIRATION; RENEWAL:
   A.   Term Of License; Expiration Date: Each license shall indicate its term.
All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for the Village
shall commence on the first day of each year. No license shall be granted for a
period longer than one year. Except where otherwise provided herein, every
license shall expire on December 31 following the date of issuance.
   B.   Renewal Of License: The Clerk shall endeavor to notify each annual
licensee of the expiration of time of the license held by the licensee at least
twenty one (21) days prior to such expiration date; provided, however, that a
failure to make such notification or the licensee's failure to receive it shall
not exclude the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license or a
renewal. Except as otherwise provided herein, each license may be renewed upon
proper application and payment of the required fee. The requirements and
procedures for granting and issuing license renewal shall be the same as the
requirements and procedures for granting a new license. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-
1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-1-11: WHEN MORE THAN ONE LICENSE REQUIRED:
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, each individual business or commercial
activity within the Village shall be required to obtain only one license, but
shall be required to comply with all applicable regulations contained in this
Code or elsewhere. The license fee required to be paid by an individual
business which is subject to two (2) or more licenses shall be the largest of
those applicable. A business shall be considered to be individual only if it is
owned by identical persons or entities, is contained within one single building
and conducts activities which are closely related. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981,
eff. 1-1-1982)
3-1-12: LICENSE TO BE POSTED; DESTRUCTION OR REMOVAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   License To Be Posted: It shall be the duty of any person conducting a
licensed business in the Village to keep his license displayed at all times in
a prominent place on the premises, machine or vehicle used for such business.
   B.   Destruction Or Removal Of License Prohibited: No person shall destroy,
obliterate, take, remove or carry away without the consent of the owner any
license, certificate, plate or sticker which has been issued by the Village
except when such license, certificate, plate or sticker has been discontinued
or the licensed premises has been abandoned. Nothing herein shall prevent a
duly authorized representative from removing any license, certificate, plate or
sticker from the possession of a former licensee, his premises, any vehicle or
any machine when said license has been revoked under the provisions of this
Code. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-1-13: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any purpose or activity if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable regulations of the
State, all building, plumbing, noise and fire codes of the Village, as well as
all other applicable ordinances and regulations. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981,
eff. 1-1-1982)
3-1-14: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Nuisances Prohibited Generally: Generally, no business or
establishment, whether or not licensed, shall be so conducted or operated as to
constitute a nuisance, and no building, vehicle, structure, yard, lot, premises
or part thereof shall be used, kept, maintained or operated in connection with
any business or establishment so as to occasion any nuisance or so as to be
dangerous to life or detrimental to health. A charge of conducting or operating
a nuisance may be made under this Chapter or under the provisions of this Code
prohibiting nuisances generally 1 .
   B.   Dangerous Structures: No building or structure, utilized, constructed
or maintained in connection with any business or occupation, shall evidence an
unsanitary, unsafe or dangerous condition. No substance, matter or thing of any
kind whatever, which shall be dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be
allowed to exist in connection with any business or occupation, or be used in
any work or labor performed in the Municipality.
   C.   Refuse Disposal:
      1.   Refuse Containers:
         a.   The standard business refuse containers required by this Code
shall be a receptacle of not less than 33-gallons' capacity, or constructed of
impervious and sturdy material, with a tight-fitting cover, and equipped with
handles properly placed to facilitate handling.
         b.   All refuse which is placed for collection service outside any
building or structure must be kept in standard refuse containers unless another
type of container is approved by the Village Manager due to the unusual nature
of the refuse produced by the business.
      2.   Refuse Removal: It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause to be removed at his own cost and expense at
least once each week all refuse produced therein.
      3.   Removal Of Refuse By Some Businesses Or Occupations: Every person
owning or controlling any hotel, restaurant, cafe, retail food establishment or
other business or occupation shall cause all substances deposited in such
containers to be removed as often as shall be necessary, including daily
removal from his premises, to ensure the healthful environment surrounding such
establishment. Such removal shall be at his own expense. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-
1981, eff. 1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 5, Chapter 1 of this Code.
3-1-15: WORKING CONDITIONS:
   A.   Health Requirements: No owner, lessee, manager or superintendent of any
store, factory, workshop or other place shall allow or cause any room or part
thereof to be overcrowded or inadequate or faulty in respect to light,
ventilation, heat or cleanliness.
   B.   Sanitation: All such places of employment shall be kept in a clean
condition, free from the effluvia of a sewer, drain, privy, stable or other
nuisance; also, as far as practicable, such premises shall be free from all
gases, vapors, dust or otherwise which are injurious to health. Sufficient
washroom facilities for all employees shall be provided and such facilities
shall be properly ventilated.
   C.   Heat Required: It shall be the duty of every person owning or
controlling the heating plant which furnishes heat to any factory, workshop,
retail business or other commercial establishment to maintain a temperature
when workers are present within such factory or workshop of not less than sixty
four degrees (64°) Fahrenheit or seventeen and eight-tenths degrees (17.8°)
Celsius without such undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with
proper sanitary conditions therein; provided, however, that this requirement
shall not apply to any factory or workshop where the business conducted therein
is of such a nature that a lower temperature than sixty four degrees (64°)
Fahrenheit or seventeen and eight-tenths degrees (17.8°) Celsius is necessary
or expedient for the work or manufacturing process of such business.
   D.   Inspection: The appropriate Village officials shall visit or cause to
be visited all such places of employment in the Village as often as they shall
deem necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this Section and to
have such arrangements made as may be deemed necessary for the health and
safety of the employees and the general public. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff.
1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
3-1-16: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR BUSINESSES OPEN TO PUBLIC:
All businesses or commercial establishments licensed under this Chapter which
invite the public generally into their establishments for the purpose of
conducting business, commercial activity or any other activity licensed under
this Title shall be subject to the following regulations in addition to all
other applicable provisions of this Code:
   A.   Safe, Sanitary Conditions: All areas within the licensed premises where
the public may enter shall be kept in a safe and sanitary condition.
   B.   Deceptive Practices Prohibited: All business or commercial
establishments shall refrain from all deceptive trade practices as defined by
State or Federal law or regulation and shall comply with all applicable laws
and regulations regarding consumer protection and deceptive trade practices. In
the event of any such violation, the business license of the establishment may
be revoked pursuant to the provisions of this Code.
   C.   Diseased Employees Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to employ in any
premises open to the public or engaged in the transportation, processing,
preparation or packaging of food or beverages, any person whom the employer
knows or should have known, based upon reasonable observation, was afflicted
with, or who is a carrier of, any contagious or infectious disease, and it
shall be unlawful for any person who knows or should have known that he was
afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease to work in or about any such
premises. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-1-17: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Entry Powers: Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in
connection with the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided
for or required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance
with the provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the Village, or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in
charge of the premises to admit for the purpose of making the inspection any
officer or employee of the Village who is duly authorized to make such
inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is requested.
   B.   Authority To Procure Samples: Whenever an analysis of any commodity or
material is reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of
any ordinance or regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the
duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any
duly authorized officer or employee of the Village requesting the same
sufficient samples of such material. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
   C.   Penalty: In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the
Village President may revoke the license of any owner or operator of a licensed
business in the Village who refuses to permit any duly authorized officer or
employee to make such inspection or to take an adequate sample of said
commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his duties; provided, however, that no license shall be subject
to revocation for such cause unless such officer or employee has been refused
permission to enter upon the premises in the name of the Village after first
having presented a warrant authorizing such entry. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981,
eff. 1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
3-1-18: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
Whenever within this Title any regulation or public record is adopted and
incorporated by reference, the manner of its adoption and incorporation shall
have complied with the provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes allowing
such incorporation and adoption. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-1-19: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation: Whenever a person shall neglect or refuse to procure any
license required by this Code, or otherwise violates the terms of this Chapter,
the proper Village official is authorized to cause appropriate legal action and
proceedings to be instituted to enforce the license requirement.
   B.   Enforcement Authority: The proper Village official shall take all
necessary and appropriate action to compel compliance with the regulatory
provisions of this Code. All Village employees duly authorized and acting as
license inspectors shall be conservators of the peace with police powers for
the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Code and other Village
ordinances relating to the licensing of businesses and occupations and their
regulation. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
3-1-20: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Suspension: When the conduct or operation of any business, occupation,
activity or establishment, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall constitute a
nuisance and a clear and present danger to public health, safety or general
welfare, or where the holder of any license shall have refused to allow an
inspection of his premises or has refused to furnish a sample of his goods for
testing, the Village President or Village Manager shall be authorized to
summarily order the cessation of business and the closing of the premises until
the danger no longer exists.
   B.   Causes For Revocation: Licenses and permits issued by the Village,
unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the Village President or Village
Manager for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of provisions of this
Code or other ordinances of the Village relating to the license or permit, the
subject matter of the license or permit or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or misdemeanor
where such conviction indicates the inability to operate a safe, honest and
legitimate business operation within the Village.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine, penalty or
charge owed to the Village.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference with
a duly authorized Municipal officer or employee while in the reasonable
performance of his duties in making such inspections, as provided in Section
3-1-17 of this Chapter. Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude
prosecution and imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of
other applicable provisions of this Code or other ordinances of the Village.
(Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Gas Utility Tax
3-2-2: Municipal Automobile Rental Occupation Tax
3-2-3: Municipal Automobile Rental Use Tax
3-2-4: Enhanced 9-1-1 Services Surcharge
3-2-5: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
3-2-6: Electricity Utility Tax
3-2-1: GAS UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, as the
case may be; and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services
and property of every kind and material and for all services rendered
therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used,
labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal corporation or
political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court. (Ord. 96-1983, 11-25-
1996, eff. 4-1-1997; amd. Ord. 98-2042, 6-22-1998)
   B.   Tax Imposed: A municipal utility tax is imposed on all persons engaged
in the following occupations or privileges:
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom. (Ord. 96-1983, 11-25-1996, eff. 4-1-1997)
   C.   Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Act: No tax is imposed by this
section with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to
the extent to which such business may not, under the constitution and statutes
of the United States, be made subject to taxation by this state or any
political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this section for such transactions as are or may become
subject to taxation under the provisions of the "municipal retailers'
occupation tax act" authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 of the
Illinois municipal code, approved May 29, 1961, as amended. (Ord. 96-1983, 11-
25-1996, eff. 4-1-1997; amd. Ord. 98-2042, 6-22-1998)
   D.   Additional Tax: Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money,
or value of products or services furnished to the village by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
   E.   Payment:
      1.   On or before June 30, each taxpayer shall make a return to the
village treasurer for the month of May stating:
         a.   His name.
         b.   His principal place of business.
         c.   His gross receipts during that month upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed.
         d.   Amount of tax.
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      2.   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the village treasurer for the preceding month.
      3.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he
so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made, exclusive of
any amounts previously billed, with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   F.   Tax Credit: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid
which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result
of a mistake of fact or an error to law, then such amount shall be credited
against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who
made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more
than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so
credited.
   G.   Limitation On Tax Recovery: No action to recover any amount of tax due
under the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three (3)
years after the due date of such amount. (Ord. 96-1983, 11-25-1996, eff. 4-1-
1997)
3-2-2: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTAL OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A municipal automobile rental occupation tax is imposed on
all persons engaged in the business of renting automobiles in the village at a
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such rentals made in the
course of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-7 of the Illinois municipal
code.
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
village shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month the report
to the Illinois department of revenue required by sections 2 and 3 of "an act
in relation to a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property to purchaser for use or consumption" approved June 29, 1933,
as amended.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the Illinois department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on
account of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord. 82-
1614, 2-16-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
3-2-3: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A municipal automobile rental use tax is hereby imposed
upon the privilege of using an automobile which is rented from a renter outside
the state and which is titled or registered with an agency of the state in the
village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile
while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-8 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Scope Of Tax: The tax provided for in this section shall be collected
from any person whose Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is
given as being within the village.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the
Illinois department of revenue. (Ord. 82-1614, 2-16-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
3-2-4: ENHANCED 9-1-1 SERVICES SURCHARGE:
   A.   Surcharge Imposed: A surcharge is hereby imposed upon the monthly
billed subscribers of telecommunication carriers residing within the village
for funding a 9-1-1 emergency telephone system. A monthly billed subscriber
shall be deemed to reside within the village if the "service address", as
hereinafter defined, is located within the village.
   B.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
NETWORK CONNECTION: The number of voice grade communication channels directly
between a subscriber and a telecommunication carrier's public switched network
without the intervention of any other telecommunication carrier's switched
network which would be required to carry the subscriber's interpremises
traffic.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of the subscriber's telecommunications facilities
accessing the network connection or connection(s) that are subject to the
surcharge.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court
engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of electricity.
   C.   Certified List Of Connections: The village clerk shall provide any
telecommunication carrier collecting the surcharge with a certified list of
those network connections assigned to the municipality to be exempt from
imposition of the surcharge. The certified list may be revised by the
municipality on sixty (60) days' prior written notice provided to the
telecommunication carriers.
   D.   Reimbursement For Costs Of Collection: Each telecommunication carrier
is hereby authorized and instructed to deduct three percent (3%) from the gross
amount of surcharge collected prior to remittance in reimbursement for the
expense of accounting and collecting the surcharge.
   E.   Remittance By Carriers To The Village:
      1.   Time Payment Due: Every telecommunication carrier shall remit to the
village treasurer the amount of surcharge collected for each calendar month
within thirty (30) days following expiration of each month to which the
surcharge applies, net of any network or other 9-1-1 or sophisticated 9-1-
1 system charge then due to the particular telecommunication carrier as shown
on an itemized bill and the three percent (3%) accounting and collection
charge.
      2.   Payment Of Surcharge: Each telecommunication carrier shall make a
return to the village treasurer for the period to which the remittance applies
stating as follows:
         a.   Name of the telecommunication carrier.
         b.   Telecommunication carrier's principal place of business.
         c.   Number of network connections to which the surcharge applies.
         d.   Amount of surcharge collected.
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as may be required.
      3.   Surcharge Credit: If it shall appear that an amount of surcharge has
been paid which was not due, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an
error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any surcharge due, or
to become due; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3)
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. Ninety (90)
days' prior notice shall be given to the emergency telephone system board 1  on
any credit against a surcharge due.
      4.   Limitation On Surcharge Recovery: No action to recover any amount of
surcharge due shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date
of such amount. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 9 of this code.
3-2-5: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this village and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money whether paid in
money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
this village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
this village, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice
channel provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not include:
      1.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: a) the tax imposed by this section, b) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, c) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, d) 911 surcharges, or e) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
      2.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
such municipality;
      3.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
      4.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      5.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
      6.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this section has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      7.   "Bad debts" which means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made;
      8.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
      9.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this subsection. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, "service address" means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this section.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter
services, computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications
service, mobile radio services, stationary two-way radio, paging service, and
any other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, and
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this section, "private
line" means a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer that
entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel
or group of channels from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" also includes the provision of cable
service or video service to subscribers and the interaction of subscribers with
the person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide cable
or video service from the Illinois commerce commission pursuant to section 21-
401 of the cable and video competition law of 2007. "Telecommunications" shall
not include purchases of telecommunications by a telecommunications service
provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such provider
to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to
end communications. Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges
for use of intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the
subsequent provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this section. For purposes of this section,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act.
   B.   Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby
imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of
6.00% of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from
a retailer.
      2.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of
6.00% of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from
a retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or privilege that
is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon proof that the
taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local
tax in this state.
      3.   The tax imposed by this section is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality.
   C.   Collection Of Tax By Retailers:
      1.   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this section
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
department in the manner provided by the department.
      2.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this section shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
   D.   Returns To Department: On or before the last day of February, 2003, and
on or before the last day of every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this
section on telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms
and information as required by the department pursuant to the Illinois
simplified municipal telecommunications tax act (public act 92-526, section 5-
50) and any accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to
implement the act.
   E.   Resellers:
      1.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to
be a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this section on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
      2.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant.
The department may cancel any number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication
tax free when such actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer
applies because of the person's having discontinued the making of resales.
      3.   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made
tax free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 07-2466, 11-19-
2007)
3-2-6: ELECTRICITY UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires:
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility, as defined in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code 1 , directly in the generation,
production, transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
VILLAGE: The village of Western Springs.
   B.   Tax Imposed:
      1.   Pursuant to section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code 2  and any and all other applicable
authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
         a.   For the first two thousand (2,000) kilowatt hours used or
consumed in a month: 0.564 cent per kilowatt hour;
         b.   For the next forty eight thousand (48,000) kilowatt hours used or
consumed in a month: 0.370 cent per kilowatt hour;
         c.   For the next fifty thousand (50,000) kilowatt hours used or
consumed in a month: 0.333 cent per kilowatt hour;
         d.   For the next four hundred thousand (400,000) kilowatt hours used
or consumed in a month: 0.324 cent per kilowatt hour;
         e.   For the next five hundred thousand (500,000) kilowatt hours used
or consumed in a month: 0.314 cent per kilowatt hour;
         f.   For the next two million (2,000,000) kilowatt hours used or
consumed in a month: 0.296 cent per kilowatt hour;
         g.   For the next two million (2,000,000) kilowatt hours used or
consumed in a month: 0.291 cent per kilowatt hour;
         h.   For the next five million (5,000,000) kilowatt hours used or
consumed in a month: 0.287 cent per kilowatt hour;
         i.   For the next ten million (10,000,000) kilowatt hours used or
consumed in a month: 0.282 cent per kilowatt hour;
         j.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of twenty million
(20,000,000) kilowatt hours a month: 0.277 cent per kilowatt hour;
      2.   The tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures
imposed by the village, the state, or any other political subdivision of the
state.
      3.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax shall
not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax
would violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the
constitution or statutes of the state.
      4.   The tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by residential customers beginning with the first bill issued on or
after September 1, 1998; and with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by nonresidential customers beginning with the first bill issued to
such customers for delivery services in accordance with section 16-104 of the
public utilities act 3 , or the first bill issued to such customers on or after
January 1, 2001, whichever issuance occurs sooner.
   C.   Collection Of Tax:
      1.   Subject to the provisions of subsection E of this section, regarding
the delivery of electricity to resellers, the tax imposed under this section
shall be collected from purchasers by the person maintaining a place of
business in this state who delivers electricity to such purchasers. This tax
shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time and in the
same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
      2.   Any tax required to be collected by this section, and any tax in
fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the village by the person
delivering the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity
shall be allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the
charges for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that
if such charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be
obligated to remit such tax.
      3.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect
to reimburse them for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the village upon request. For purposes of this section, any partial payment
of a billed amount not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed
to be for the delivery of electricity.
   D.   Tax Remittance And Return:
      1.   Every tax collector shall on a monthly basis file a return in a form
prescribed by the village's director of finance. The return and accompanying
remittance shall be due on or before the last day of the month following the
month during which the tax is collected.
      2.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from
the purchaser then the purchaser shall file a return in a form prescribed by
the village's director of finance and pay the tax directly to the village on or
before the last day of the month following the month during which the
electricity is used or consumed.
   E.   Resales:
      1.   Resale Numbers: Electricity that is delivered to a person in this
village shall be considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless
the person receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the
village and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity,
and certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially
nontaxable as a sale for resale.
      2.   Application For Number: If a person who receives electricity in the
village claims to be an authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall
apply to the village for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts
showing why it is not liable for the tax imposed by this section on any
purchases of electricity and shall furnish such additional information as the
village may reasonably require.
      3.   Approval: Upon approval of the application, the village shall assign
a resale number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
      4.   Cancellation: The village may cancel the resale number of any person
if the person fails to pay any tax payable under this section for electricity
used or consumed by the person, or if the number: a) was obtained through
misrepresentation; or b) is no longer necessary because the person has
discontinued making resales.
      5.   Payment:
         a.   If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or
consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by
this section directly to the village pursuant to subsection D2 of this section
or this subsection E on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or
consumes, and shall collect the tax pursuant to subsection D2 of this section
or this subsection E and remit the tax pursuant to subsection D1 of this
section or this subsection E on the amount of electricity delivered by the
reseller to a purchaser.
         b.   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an
active resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section
shall be excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the
electricity delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to the
village the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such
other information that the village may reasonably require.
   F.   Books And Records: Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to
pay the tax imposed by this section, shall keep accurate books and records of
its business or activity, including contemporaneous books and records denoting
the transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability
under this section. The books and records shall be subject to and available for
inspection at all times during business hours of the day.
   G.   Credits And Refunds: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, in order to permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the village,
no person shall be entitled to a refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under
this section unless the person files a claim for refund or credit within one
year after the date on which the tax was paid or remitted. (Ord. 98-2042, 6-22-
1998)
   H.   Utility Tax Rate: Notwithstanding any provision in this code to the
contrary, the tax imposed in subsection B of this section shall be imposed
against persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing
or selling electricity for the use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the
gross receipts therefrom until such time as it can be replaced by the
electricity utility tax on kilowatt hours pursuant to this section. (Ord. 98-
2049, 8-10-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3 1. 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
CHAPTER 3
LICENSED BUSINESSES AND OCCUPATIONS; SCHEDULE OF FEES
SECTION:
3-3-1: License Required
3-3-2: License Fees
3-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
The businesses, occupations, activities and establishments listed in section
3-3-2 of this chapter shall be required to obtain a license in accordance with
the procedures and regulations established in this Code. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-
1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-3-2: LICENSE FEES:
License fees under this Code shall be as set forth herein. License fees shall
be paid annually, unless otherwise noted, and proof of any bond or liability
insurance policy required by this Code shall be provided with the license fee.
In the case of a new applicant who submits a business license application on or
after July 1 in any calendar year, the initial annual business license fee
shall be reduced by thirty three percent (33%). The fee reduction shall not
apply to any required license application fee or to any business license
applicant who seeks a license for a onetime event (e.g., amusements and
entertainments, carnival, circus, etc.) or to the fees paid by a residential
refuse hauler.
Classification Term Fee
Classification                      Term           Fee
Ambulance business, per ambulance      1 year   $ 75.00
Amusements and entertainments:                     
 Carnival                             5 days   200.00
 Circus                               5 days   200.00
  Concert, musical or dramatic
 entertainment, public reading or     3 days   10.00
  recitation
 Exhibition of inanimate objects      3 days   75.00
  Mechanical/electronic amusement
 device, each machine in operation    1 year   25.00
  at each place of public resort
 Every other exhibition,              3 days   75.00
  entertainment or performance
Annual general business license
(excluding those businesses
specifically listed in this section    1 year   75.00
and those preempted from local
licensing by State law)
                                       1 year   150.00
Auctioneers                         1 month        55.00
                                    1 day          10.00
Barbershops                            1 year   75.00
Beauty shops                           1 year   75.00
Building movers:                                 
 License fee plus $100,000.00         1 year   100.00
  surety bond
 Additional license fee for each   Per house/     500.00
  house/structure moved             structure
Catch basin cleaners                   1 year   75.00
Commercial filming/photography/     Per production 150.00
taping:
 Public building usage fee         Per production 700.00
  Village reimbursement deposit fee
 (small production - production    Per production 2,000.00
  cast and crew: less than 15)
  Village reimbursement deposit fee
 (large production - production    Per production 10,000.00
  cast and crew: 15 or greater)
Contractors:                                       
 Carpenter                            1 year   125.00
 Cement                               1 year   125.00
 Electrical                           1 year   125.00
 Excavating                           1 year   125.00
 General                              1 year   125.00
 Heating and ventilating              1 year   125.00
 Insulating                           1 year   125.00
 Mason                                1 year   125.00
 Paving                               1 year   125.00
 Plastering and lathing               1 year   125.00
 Roofing                              1 year   125.00
 Sewer                                1 year   125.00
 Sheet metal                          1 year   125.00
 Siding                               1 year   125.00
 Structural ironworks                 1 year   125.00
 Tile, marble and mosaic              1 year   125.00
 Tuck pointing                        1 year   125.00
Dry cleaners                           1 year   75.00
Florists                               1 year   75.00
Food service                           1 year   75.00
Garages and filling stations           1 year   75.00
Hospitals                              1 year   100.00
Hotels and lodging houses              1 year   100.00
Laundries                              1 year   75.00
Liquor licenses:                                 
 Class A:                             1 year    
  License application                         1,000.00
  Annual license                              2,000.00
    License application for
  existing Village liquor license               400.00
    holder in good standing
 Class B:                             1 year    
  License application                         1,000.00
  Annual license                              2,000.00
    License application for
  existing Village liquor license               400.00
    holder in good standing
 Class C:                             1 year    
  License application                         1,000.00
  Annual license                              1,000.00
    License application for
  existing Village liquor license               400.00
    holder in good standing
 Class D:                             1 year    
  License application                         1,000.00
  Annual license                              1,000.00
    License application for
  existing Village liquor license               400.00
    holder in good standing
 Class E:                             1 year    
  License application                         1,000.00
  Annual license                              3,000.00
    License application for
  existing Village liquor license               400.00
    holder in good standing
 Class F:                             1 year    
  License application                         1,000.00
  Annual license                              500.00
    License application for
  existing Village liquor license               400.00
    holder in good standing
 Class G:                             1 year    
  License application                         1,000.00
  Annual license                              1,000.00
    License application for
  existing Village liquor license               400.00
    holder in good standing
 Class H:                             1 year    
  License application                         400.00
  Annual license                              150.00
 Class I:                                       
  License application (initial)               400.00
  Renewal application                         100.00
  License application for                     No application fee
    existing liquor license holder
  Event license:                     
   5 or fewer events in 1                    $25.00 per event
      calendar year
      Each additional event after
   fifth event in 1 calendar                 $15.00 per event
      year
 Class J:                                       
  License application (initial)               $400.00
  Renewal application                         100.00
  License application for                     No application fee
    existing liquor license holder
  Event license:                               
   Per alcoholic beverage tent/              $100.00
      single retail operator
      Per local business or retail
   operator in alcoholic                     100.00
      beverage tent or per sales/
      tasting booth
  If village is sole applicant                No application or license
                                                   fees
 Class K:                                       
  License application                1 year   $250.00
  Annual license                     1 year   200.00
 Class L:                                       
    License application (available
  only to current liquor license              No application fee
    holders in good standing)
    Event license (per year, no
  limitation of number of                     $25.00
    festivals/special events)
  If village is sole applicant                No application or license
                                                   fees
 Class M:                             1 year    
  License application                         $ 250.00
  Annual license                              100.00
 Class N:                             1 year    
  Applicant with existing village              
    liquor license:
   License application                       200.00
   Annual license                            100.00
  Applicant without existing                   
    village liquor license:
   License application                       1,000.00
   Annual license                            500.00
 Class O:                          1 year          
  License application                           1,000.00
  License fee (annual)                          1,000.00
 Class P:                          1 year          
  License application                           1,000.00
  License fee (annual)                          1,000.00
    License application for
  existing Village liquor license               400.00
    holder in good standing
 Class Q:                          1 year          
  License application                           1,000.00
  License fee (annual)                          1,000.00
 Class R:                          1 year          
  License application                           1,000.00
  License fee (annual)                          1,000.00
Paint stores                           1 year   75.00
Peddlers, hawkers, itinerant
merchants, transient vendors (see                
also Solicitors and canvassers):
                                       1 year   100.00
 License application                  1 month  75.00
                                       1 day    10.00
Public passenger vehicles:                       
 Business license                              75.00
 Business license application,                 100.00
  nonrefundable
 Chauffeur's license                           75.00
 Livery vehicle license               1 year   75.00
 Vehicle license, per vehicle         1 year   35.00
Raffles:                                         
 Raffle license fee                   Per event25.00
Scavengers:                                      
  Commercial/intermittent plus
 insurance certificate as required    1 year   125.00
  by section
  3-6B-5 of this title
  Residential refuse hauler plus
  (a) insurance certificate as
  required by section
  3-6B-5  of this title or as
  provided in the waste collection
 contract, whichever coverage         1 year   2,000.00
  limits are greater, (b) cash
  security deposit per waste
  collection contract, and (c)
  performance bond per waste
  collection contract
Solicitors and canvassers (see also
Peddlers, hawkers, itinerant                     
merchants, transient vendors):
 License application                           5.00
Undertakers                            1 year   75.00
Veterinary hospitals                   1 year   75.00
 
(Ord. 09-2546, 9-28-2009; amd. Ord. 10-2579, 4-26-2010; Ord. 10-2580, 4-26-
2010; Ord. 10-2590, 8-30-2010; Ord. 11-2623, 3-28-2011; Ord. 11-2646, 9-26-
2011; Ord. 12-2682, 6-11-2012; Ord. 14-2755, 5-19-2014; Ord. 14-2756, 5-19-
2014; Ord. 15-2789, 3-23-2015; Ord. 17-2872, 2-27-2017; Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-
2019; Ord. 20-2999, 3-16-2020; Ord. 20-3027, 12-21-2020; Ord. 22-3071, 3-21-
2022; Ord. 22-3117, 1-23-2023; Ord. 24-3200, 7-15-2024)
CHAPTER 4
SPECIAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS I
SECTION:
3-4-1: Application Of Provisions; Eligibility If Debt Owed To Village
3-4-2: Amusements And Entertainments
3-4-3: Auctioneers
3-4-4: Barber Shops
3-4-5: Bowling Alleys And Billiard Parlors
3-4-6: Cigarette Vending Machines
3-4-7: Contractors
3-4-8: Dry Cleaners
3-4-9: Fire Insurance Companies
3-4-10: Florists
3-4-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; ELIGIBILITY IF DEBT OWED TO VILLAGE:
In addition to other requirements listed in this Code, the following special
provisions shall apply to certain businesses and occupations.
   A.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Chapter. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-
17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022)
3-4-2: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS: Means and includes, but not in limitation
thereto, any athletic exhibition, boxing or wrestling exhibition, theatrical
performance, public dance, concert, minstrel show, musical or dramatic
entertainment, public reading or recitation, circus, menagerie, carnival, side
show, merry-go-round, roller coaster or other form of amusement or recreation
(except motion picture shows, bowling alleys, billiard halls and pool halls,
which are elsewhere provided for).
MECHANICAL/ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any amusement machine or device which,
upon the payment of a fee or the insertion of a coin, trade-token or slug,
operates or may be operated as a game or contest of skill or amusement of any
kind or description. A "mechanical/electronic amusement device" is further
defined as any machine, apparatus, contrivance or device which is used or which
may be used as a game of skill and amusement wherein or whereby the player
initiates, employs or directs any force generated by the machine. The term
"mechanical/electronic amusement device" does not include any vending machines
that incorporate gaming or amusement features, or any coin-operated mechanical
devices or any video gaming terminal as defined in the Illinois Video Gaming
Act 1 , as amended. Pursuant to section 27 of the Illinois Video Gaming Act 2
and this Code, the Village President and Board of Trustees have declared and
ordered that the use and operation of video gaming terminals licensed by the
State of Illinois under the Illinois Video Gaming Act 3  within the corporate
boundaries of the Village is prohibited and shall be considered illegal
gambling. The term "mechanical/electronic amusement device" includes but is not
limited to:
      1.   Any mechanical pinball amusement device; or
      2.   Any mechanical device which in its operation shoots or propels an
electric light, ray or impulse to a target; or
      3.   Any table bowling, shuffleboard or other mechanical table game or
amusement device involving the propulsion of spheres or other projectile,
mechanically or by hand; or
      4.   Any electronic tennis, ping-pong, volleyball or other electronic
table game or amusement device which in its operation makes use of electronic
circuitry to produce electronic or video images upon a screen; or
      5.   Any coin-operated or coin-in-the-slot table amusement device or
game.
PLACE OF PUBLIC RESORT: Any premises wherein any service or merchandise is
offered for sale to the public or where mechanical/electronic amusement devices
are kept for gain or profit, or any premises used as a clubhouse or clubroom.
(Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. Ord. 17-2905, 11-27-2017)
   B.   License Required: No person, shall set up, keep or maintain or permit
to be set up, kept or maintained in any place of public resort any mechanical/
electronic amusement device, unless such person shall have obtained a license
from the Village as provided in subsection D of this section for each such
mechanical/electronic device. (Ord. 91-1821, 8-26-1991)
   C.   License Fees: The fees listed in chapter 3 of this title shall apply;
provided, however, that for any such performance, dance, musical or dramatic
entertainment or other entertainment or exhibition given or sponsored by any
civic, charitable, school or fraternal organization or by residents of the
Village who are not engaged in the business of giving or conducting such
affairs, and which is not conducted for personal gain, no license fee shall be
required. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
   D.   Licensing Of Mechanical/Electronic Amusement Devices:
      1.   Application For License: The application for such license shall be
made to the Village Clerk on a form supplied by the Clerk which shall contain
the following information and any other additional information deemed necessary
for the effective issuance of licenses and regulation of mechanical/electronic
amusement devices and/or enforcement of the general intent of this section. All
information contained in the application shall be under oath, and any false
information submitted shall be grounds for immediate revocation of any license
issued by the Village:
         a.   Name and address of the applicant, age, date and place of birth.
         b.   Location where machine or device is to be displayed or operated
and the business conducted at that place.
         c.   A statement under oath which represents that:
            (1)   The machine or device is not a gambling device.
            (2)   No free games can be obtained by any player.
      2.   Qualifications Of Licensee: No license shall be issued to any
applicant unless he shall be twenty one (21) years of age or older and a
citizen of the United States.
      3.   Number Of Licenses: The number of licenses issued in the Village at
any one time shall not exceed six (6).
      4.   License Fee: The annual fee for a license shall be as provided in
Chapter 3 of this Title.
      5.   Number Of Machines: No more than two (2) such machines shall be
permitted for each place of public resort in the Village.
   E.   Operation Of Mechanical/Electronic Amusement Device:
      1.   Supervisor: There shall be at least one supervisory employee, twenty
one (21) years or older, in attendance at all times on any premises containing
coin-operated amusement devices, during operating hours. (Ord. 91-1821, 8-26-
1991)
      2.   Disorderly Conduct Prohibited: In addition to the provisions
contained in Section
3-1-20 of this Title, no one shall permit the operation of any mechanical/
electronic amusement device in such a fashion so that the players and
spectators engage in any disorderly conduct as such is defined in Section
6-1-1 of this Code. If such disorderly conduct occurs, the Village President
shall revoke the license or licenses for all such mechanical/electronic
machines in operation on the premises. (Ord. 91-1821, 8-26-1991; 1997 Code)
      3.   Hours Of Operation: No one shall permit the operation of any
mechanical/electronic amusement device between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on any day. (Ord. 91-1821, 8-26-1991)
   F.   Violations; Penalty:
      1.   Seizure And Destruction Of Machines: It is hereby made the duty of
every member of the police force to seize any mechanical/electronic amusement
device kept or used in violation of this Section and, upon conviction of the
keeper thereof, such mechanical/electronic amusement device so seized shall be
destroyed. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
      2.   Penalty: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or
club violating any provisions of this Section shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 91-1821, 8-26-1991;
1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/5.
2 2. 230 ILCS 40/27.
3 3. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
3-4-3: AUCTIONEERS:
   A.   Definition: An "auctioneer", for the purposes of this Code, is any
person who sells real or personal property at private auction for another or
for himself.
   B.   Auctions In Streets: No auction shall be conducted in any street or
other public place within the Village. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-
1982)
3-4-4: BARBER SHOPS:
   A.   Definition: The term "barber shops", as used in this Chapter, shall be
construed to mean a place where hair is cut, cleansed, treated or dressed, or
the face shaved or beard trimmed for hire, and also where manicure, chiropody
or massage treatments are sometimes furnished for hire, and shall also be
deemed to include hair-dressing establishments, commonly patronized by women.
   B.   Sanitation: Premises used for a barber shop shall be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition, and it shall be unlawful to permit waste materials of
any kind to accumulate therein. It shall be unlawful to employ in such
establishments any person afflicted with a venereal or contagious disease.
   C.   Implements: It shall be unlawful to use in any establishment used as a
barber shop any implements or tools upon any person after the same have been
used upon a person afflicted with any skin disease without sterilizing the tool
or implement afterwards. It shall be unlawful to use any towel on any customer
after the same has been used before without having such towel sterilized and
cleaned prior to such second usage.
   D.   Customers With Diseases: No person afflicted with any disease of the
face or head shall have the same barbered or treated in any manner in a barber
shop or hair-dressing establishment in the Village, nor shall any person with a
disease on the hand be manicured therein. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-
1982)
   E.   Certificate Of Registration: No person shall engage in the work of a
barber or be permitted to so engage in any barber shop without having first
procured a certificate of registration as a registered barber or as a
registered barber's apprentice from the Department of Professional Regulation,
as provided by law, or without keeping such certificate of registration
currently in force. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
3-4-5: BOWLING ALLEYS AND BILLIARD PARLORS:
No person shall maintain or conduct a public bowling alley, public pool hall or
public billiard parlor in the Village. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-
1982)
3-4-6: CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINES:
No person shall install, keep, maintain, use or permit the maintenance or use
upon his premises of any vending machine, automatic vending machine, coin-
operated machine or other mechanical device used or intended to be used for the
sale or distribution of cigarettes. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-4-7: CONTRACTORS 1 :
   A.   Bond 2 : Prior to the issuance of a license by the Village to an
applicant for a contractor's license, pursuant to this Code, the applicant for
said license shall execute a surety bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), conditioned to indemnify and keep harmless the Village from any
expense, liability, loss or damage resulting from the issuance of such license
or from the work undertaken pursuant to said license, or the manner of doing
the same.
   B.   Electrical Contractors:
      1.   Registration Required; Exception: No person shall engage in the
business of electrical contractor within the Village without first obtaining a
certificate of registration; provided, however, that if such person is already
registered for the current year in another city or village of this State, as
provided by State law, no registration in this Village shall be required. (Ord.
95-1950, 9-25-1995; amd. 1997 Code)
      2.   Application For Registry: Application for registry shall be made as
provided in this Code for licenses, insofar as the same is applicable. The
application shall be referred to the Department of Code Enforcement; if the
Department approves the application and so reports to the Village Clerk, the
applicant may then be registered as an electrical contractor, and a certificate
of registration shall be issued upon payment of the prescribed registration
fee. The annual fee for registration as an electrical contractor shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-2064, 12-
21-1998)
   C.   Plumbing Contractors: No plumbing contractor shall engage in any
plumbing contracting work within the Village without first producing
satisfactory proof of being currently certified by the State Plumbing License
Law set forth in 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/0.01 et seq. (Ord. 95-1950,
9-25-1995; amd. 1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-3-2 of this Title for license fee.
2 2. See also Section
  1-13-10 of this Code.
3-4-8: DRY CLEANERS:
Cross Reference: Fire Prevention Code, Title 9, Chapter 6 of this Code. (Ord.
81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
3-4-9: FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES:
   A.   Fee; Disposition: All corporations, companies and associations not
incorporated under the laws of the State and which are engaged in the Village
in effecting fire insurance shall pay to the Treasurer of the Foreign Fire
Insurance Board, for the use and benefit of the Department of Fire and
Inspectional Services, as determined by the Foreign Fire Insurance Board in
accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-10, a sum equal in amount to two percent (2%) of
the gross receipts received by the agency of any such company, corporation or
association in the Village.
   B.   Report; Payment: Every person who shall act in the Village as agent or
otherwise, for and on behalf of any such corporation, company or association,
shall, on or before July 15 of each and every year, render to the Foreign Fire
Insurance Board a full, true and just account, made on his oath, of all the
premiums which, during the year ending on July 1 preceding such report, have
been received for fire insurance by them or any other person for their in
behalf of any such corporation, company or association; such agent shall also
pay to the Treasurer of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board, at the time of
rendering the aforesaid report, two percent (2%) of the gross receipts received
by them for fire insurance effected in the Village. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981,
eff. 1-1-1982; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 23-3132, 4-24-2023)
3-4-10: FLORISTS:
   A.   Definition: The term "retail florist" means any person engaged in the
business of selling, offering for sale or keeping with the intention of selling
at retail flowers, bridal bouquets, funeral designs or growing plants.
   B.   Sanitation: Every place or establishment where the business of a
florist is conducted shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and free
from vermin. No decayed, contaminated or diseased flowers or plants shall be
allowed to remain in or about said establishment. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981,
eff. 1-1-1982)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS II
SECTION:
3-5-1: Application Of Provisions; Eligibility If Debt Owed To Village
3-5-2: Garages And Filling Stations
3-5-3: Hotels And Lodging Houses
3-5-4: Building Movers
3-5-5: Laundries
3-5-6: Paint Stores
3-5-7: Pawnbrokers
3-5-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; ELIGIBILITY IF DEBT OWED TO VILLAGE:
In addition to other requirements listed in this code, the following special
provisions shall apply to certain businesses and occupations.
   A.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Chapter. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-
17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. Ord. 3091, 7-11-2022)
3-5-2: GARAGES AND FILLING STATIONS 1 :
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
FILLING STATION: Any building, structure or premises where gasoline and other
liquids used in the operation of motor vehicles are stored or kept in tanks or
containers, either stationary or portable, and are sold and dispensed from such
tanks or containers.
PUBLIC GARAGE: Any building or premises where three (3) or more motor vehicles
using inflammable liquids for fuel or power, which are operated otherwise than
on fixed rails, are kept for sale or rent or are housed, stored, serviced or
repaired for hire.
   B.   Frontage Consents: No person shall locate, construct or maintain any
filling station in connection with which there is installed any tank for the
storage of inflammable liquids on any lot or plot of ground without first
obtaining the written consents of the property owners representing the majority
of the total frontage in feet of any lots or plots of ground lying wholly or in
part within lines one hundred fifty feet (150') distant from and parallel to
the boundaries of the entire lot or plot of ground to be used for and with such
filling station, driveways and enclosing fences, if any; provided, however,
that for the purpose of this section there shall be considered only the
frontage of such lot or plot of ground, or that part of the frontage of any
part thereof, which comes within the one hundred fifty foot (150') limit herein
prescribed; and provided, further, that any and all petitions containing such
consents of property owners shall be based on and contain the legal description
of the property affected, and that, for the purpose of this section, whenever
the lot or plot of ground in which such tank is to be installed is in any shape
other than a rectangle, the one hundred fifty foot (150') limiting line
aforementioned shall not at any point exceed in distance one hundred fifty feet
(150') from the nearest point in the boundaries of such lot or plot of ground.
   C.   Application For License:
      1.   Application Procedure: Application for such license shall be made
and license be issued as provided in chapter 1 of this title. The application
shall also specify the location and describe the construction of the building
or place in which it is proposed to conduct such business and of the tanks or
other containers to be used in connection therewith, and shall be accompanied
by plans and specifications pertaining thereto and by frontage consents as
above provided. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
      2.   Approval Of Construction Required: No tank or other equipment
described in such application and used or to be used at such garage or filling
station shall be covered or used until the installation, material and
workmanship have been finally accepted, approved and certified by the director
of fire and inspectional services or such other person as may be designated by
the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982;
amd. 1997 Code)
   D.   Location: No public garage or filling station shall be operated within
one hundred feet (100') of the nearest lot line of any premises occupied by any
building used in whole or in part as a public theater or used exclusively for
school or church purposes. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  9-10-10H of this code for sign regulations.
3-5-3: HOTELS AND LODGING HOUSES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
BOARDING HOUSE: A house, building or portion thereof in which meals or lodging
and meals are furnished, for compensation, by prearrangement for definite
periods, for three (3) or more but not exceeding six (6) persons, exclusive of
the owner, manager or members of their respective families.
HOTEL: Any building or structure used for lodging the public, especially
transients, where sleeping or lodging accommodations, with or without meals,
are furnished, for compensation, for more than six (6) guests.
LODGING HOUSE: Any house or building, or portion thereof, other than a hotel,
used for lodging the public, especially transients, where sleeping or lodging
accommodations, with or without meals, are provided, for compensation, for not
less than three (3) nor more than six (6) persons, exclusive of the owner,
manager or members of their respective families.
   B.   Application For License:
      1.   Application Procedure: Application for a hotel, lodging house or
boarding house license shall be made and license shall be issued as provided in
chapter 1 of this title. With the application shall be filed a plan of each
floor of the building proposed to be used as a hotel, lodging house or boarding
house, drawn to a scale of not less than one-fourth inch (1/4") to the foot,
showing all fire escapes, stairs, halls, the location and size of all windows,
bedrooms and exits on each floor, and indicating the number of persons proposed
to be accommodated on each floor and the number of persons to be housed in each
room. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
      2.   Inspections: The application shall be referred to the director of
fire and inspectional services, who shall cause investigation to be made to
determine whether the building or premises in which such hotel or boarding
house is to be operated complies with the requirements of this code and of the
building code, in regard to construction, sanitation, and public health and
safety. If the director of fire and inspectional services approves the
application, license shall be issued upon payment of the prescribed fee 1 .
(Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-
1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-3-2 of this title.
3-5-4: BUILDING MOVERS:
   A.   Definition: The term "building mover", as used in this section, shall
mean and include any person engaged in the business of moving, raising or
shoring buildings, houses or other structures.
   B.   Bond: Before any license shall be issued to a building mover, the
proposed licensee shall execute a surety bond in the amount of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00), conditioned for observance and performance by
him or her of all provisions of this code relating to the moving, raising,
shoring or underpinning of buildings, houses or structures within the village
and conditioned further to pay all damages which may occur to any public right
of way, public infrastructure, public or private utilities or to any pole,
wire, cable or electrical equipment or appliance or to trees or shrubbery owned
by, or under the control or jurisdiction of the village, or to any privately
owned property in the village, caused by or resulting from the work undertaken
or the manner of doing the same. In the case of a building, house or structure
that is owned by a public entity or not for profit organization and the
relocation will occur within the village's corporate boundaries, the above
surety bond amount may be reduced to an amount not less than twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) as determined and approved by the village board based on a
recommendation of the director of community development. Factors supporting a
reduction in the surety bond amount include: the relocation presents a reduced
risk of damage to the public right of way, public infrastructure, public or
private utilities or to any pole, wire, cable or electrical equipment or
appliance or to trees or shrubbery owned by, or under the control or
jurisdiction of the village, or to any privately owned property. (Ord. 08-2494,
5-12-2008)
   C.   Building Relocation Permit; Fee: No licensed building mover shall move
a building, house or structure in, on or over any street, alley or other public
place in the village without a permit issued for that purpose. Such permit
shall be issued by the director of community development upon application
therefor, and on payment of a permit fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 08-2510, 10-27-2008)
3-5-5: LAUNDRIES:
   A.   Definition: The word "laundry", as used in this section, is hereby
defined as any place, building, structure, room or portion thereof which is
used for the purpose of washing, drying, starching or ironing shirts, dresses,
underwear, collars, cuffs or other wearing apparel, table, bed or other
household linens, towels, curtains, draperies or other washable fabrics, such
work being done for the general public. The term "laundry" shall also mean and
include any private laundry maintained or operated in connection with a hotel,
restaurant or public institution, except a hospital or charitable institution
where no charge is made for laundry services.
   B.   Operating Rules And Regulations: In addition to other provisions of
this code, laundry operating rules and regulations may be established by
resolution of the board from time to time. Failure to comply with these rules
and regulations shall constitute just cause for license revocation. (Ord. 81-
1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
   C.   Inspections: The health officer shall inspect or cause to be inspected,
from time to time, all premises wherein laundries are conducted, for the
purpose of ascertaining whether the provisions of this code and the laws of the
state relative to the keeping and operation of laundries are being complied
with, and it shall cause the same to be strictly enforced.
   D.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any person engaged in doing custom laundry work at home for a regular
family trade, nor to any room, rooms or portion thereof, located in an
apartment, house or other dwelling, in which domestic laundry work is done by
or for the occupants of such building exclusively. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981,
eff. 1-1-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
3-5-6: PAINT STORES:
   A.   Definition: The term "paint store", for the purpose of this section, is
defined to mean any building, room, place, establishment or part of an
establishment in which any paint, varnish, enamel, shellac, linseed oil, tung
oil, turpentine, benzine, naphtha, denatured alcohol or similar inflammable
liquids are held, stored, sold or offered for sale at retail otherwise than in
sealed containers, whether or not in connection with the sale of painter's
tools, supplies and equipment. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
   B.   Licensing Requirements: No person shall conduct or operate a paint
store in the village without first obtaining a license therefor. The
application for license shall be made as provided in chapter 1 of this title
and shall describe the premises as well as the location of the same. The
application shall be referred to the health officer and to the director of fire
and inspectional services, who shall have an investigation and inspection made
to determine the suitability of the premises from the viewpoint of sanitation,
fire prevention and public safety. If the application is approved by the health
officer and the director of fire and inspectional services, license shall be
issued upon payment of the prescribed fee 1 . (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff.
1-1-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-3-2 of this title.
3-5-7: PAWNBROKERS:
No person shall conduct or operate the business of pawnbroker within the
village. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS III
SECTION:
3-6-1: Application Of Provisions; Eligibility If Debt Owed To Village
3-6-2: Undertakers
3-6-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; ELIGIBILITY IF DEBT OWED TO VILLAGE:
In addition to other requirements listed in the Code, the special provisions of
this Chapter shall apply to certain businesses and occupations.
   A.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Chapter. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-
17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022)
3-6-2: UNDERTAKERS:
   A.   Definition: The word "undertaker", as used in this Chapter, is defined
as a person engaging in the practice of funeral directing, as provided by
statute, whether together with or without the practice of embalming. This
definition includes, but without limitation thereto, the preparation of dead
human bodies for burial or cremation, the management of a funeral, the
conducting or management of an undertaking establishment, the use in connection
with a person's name or business of the term "funeral director", "undertaker",
"mortician", "funeral home", "funeral parlor" or any other term indicating that
such person is engaged in the business of funeral directing. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-
17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
   B.   Certification Required: No person shall be entitled to a license who
does not hold and keep currently in force a certificate as a registered funeral
director and a certificate as a registered embalmer, issued by the Department
of Professional Regulation.
   C.   Application For License: Application for license shall be made as
provided in Chapter 1 of this Title. The application shall also be accompanied
by proof that the applicant holds a State certificate as registered funeral
director and a State certificate as registered embalmer, and by evidence that
he knows and is familiar with the Village Code provisions and the regulations
of the Health Officer relating to the removal, preparation and burial or
cremation of the dead, that he has a practical knowledge of approved sanitary
methods of caring for dead human bodies and preparing the same for burial or
cremation, including the embalming and disinfection thereof, and that he is of
good moral character and a fit person to be licensed as undertaker. The
application, together with the supporting evidence, shall be referred to the
Health Officer, which shall consider the same and forward the application, with
its recommendation endorsed thereon, to the Village President. (Ord. 81-1601,
11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
   D.   Issuance And Content Of License: Upon approval of the application by
the President and Board of Trustees, and payment of the prescribed fee 1 ,
license shall be issued. The license shall designate the particular premises in
which the applicant is permitted to conduct the business of undertaker and
shall not be valid as to any other place or premises. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-
1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-3-2 of this Title.
ARTICLE A. PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLES
SECTION:
3-6A-1: Definitions
3-6A-2: Business License Requirements
3-6A-3: Public Passenger Vehicle License Requirements
3-6A-4: Vehicle Requirements
3-6A-5: Chauffeur's License Requirements
3-6A-6: Livery Vehicles
3-6A-7: Rates And Charges
3-6A-8: Taximeters
3-6A-9: Restricted Or Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-6A-10: Rights Of Foreign Public Passenger Vehicles
3-6A-11: Taxicab Stands
3-6A-12: Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
3-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:
AUTHORIZED GARAGE: Official State of Illinois testing station, or other
designated facility.
LICENSEE: Any person, firm or corporation who is the owner of one or more
licenses issued pursuant to this Article.
LIVERY VEHICLE: Any public passenger vehicle transporting not more than the
rated passenger load per vehicle, for hire as a result of individual contract,
on a trip or hourly basis.
PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE: Taxicabs and livery vehicles used for transportation
of passengers for hire.
PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE CHAUFFEUR: Any person who drives a public passenger
vehicle in use for the transportation of persons for compensation.
PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE OWNER: Any person owning a public passenger vehicle
for hire.
RATE CARD: A card used by the Village for display in each taxicab which
contains the rates of fare then in force.
TAXICAB: Any public passenger vehicle equipped with a taximeter and licensed as
a taxicab for the carriage of not more than the rated passenger load per
vehicle, for hire or from such destination as directed by such passenger hiring
such vehicle.
TAXICAB STAND: Any place, public (where designated by the Village Board), or
private (as designated by the private owner), where taxicabs are placed on
display and presented for hire to prospective customers, accepting such persons
as may offer themselves for transportation. Examples of taxicab stands are:
railroad stations, shopping centers, theatres, restaurants and any prominent
gathering place.
TAXIMETER: Any mechanical or electronic device attached to a taxicab which
records and indicates a charge or fare in dollars and cents measured by
distance and waiting time.
WAITING TIME: Shall include the time when the taxicab is not in motion,
beginning with the arrival at the place to which it has been called, or the
time consumed while standing at the direction of the passenger, but no charge
shall be made for the time lost on account of inefficiency of the taxicab, or
its operator, or time consumed by a premature response to a call. (Ord. 88-
1755, 7-25-1988)
3-6A-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required; Exemptions: No person shall operate or permit a
public passenger vehicle which is owned or controlled to be operated as a
vehicle for hire upon the streets and to occupy public taxicab stands of the
Village without first having obtained a business license. This provision does
not apply to a person who is merely an employee of the owner of the vehicle or
who leases the vehicle from the licensee.
   B.   Application For License: The business license application, accompanied
by a nonrefundable fee as provided in Chapter 3 of this Title, will contain the
same information as is required by the Village for all businesses and, in
addition, shall be accompanied by a letter providing all of the following
additional information, as applicable, if not on the standard application form:
      1.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a partnership, the persons entitled to share in the
profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, for profit, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors, and if a majority interest of the stock of such
corporation is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and address of such
person.
      2.   The citizenship of the applicant; if a natural person, the place of
applicant's birth, or if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of
naturalization.
      3.   Current occupation/employment, business address and telephone
number.
      4.   Educational background.
      5.   Previous employment history.
      6.   Previous military history (if any) and type of discharge.
      7.   Current financial status, including any unpaid judgments and
pertinent information relative to any such judgments.
      8.   Any previous convictions of felony and/or traffic violations.
      9.   Previous residences for past five (5) years.
      10.   The number of vehicles to be operated or controlled by the
applicant and the location of proposed depots and terminals.
      11.   The color scheme or insignia to be used to designate the vehicle or
vehicles of the applicant not in conflict with emergency vehicles or existing
public passenger vehicles, as required by subsection 3-6A-9C of this Article.
      12.   Such further information as may be required by the Village.
   C.   Insurance Required:
      1.   Amount Of Insurance: Applicants for a license or renewal of a
license to operate a public passenger vehicle in the Municipality shall
produce: a) a certificate from the Secretary of State showing compliance by the
owner for each public passenger vehicle with the provisions of the statutes of
the State now or hereafter in force relating to the bonding or insurance of
motor vehicles used for carriage of passengers for hire; and b) a policy of
insurance or certificate of insurance showing that there is in full force and
effect a policy of insurance in not less than the following amounts:
 
Personal injury, each person $ 500,000.00
Each accident                1,000,000.00
Property damage              500,000.00
 
The applicant shall furnish to the Municipality a certificate of insurance
requiring that the coverage may not be cancelled, or materially changed,
without thirty (30) days' prior written notice.
      2.   Filing Insurance; Cancellation: All bonds or insurance policies
required by this Article or copies thereof, certified by the insurers or
surety, shall be filed with the Village Clerk, and shall not be subject to
cancellation, except on thirty (30) days' previous notice to the Village Clerk.
If any insurance is cancelled or permitted to lapse for any reason, the Village
Clerk shall suspend the licenses for the vehicles affected for a period of not
to exceed thirty (30) days, to permit other insurance to be supplied in
compliance with the provisions of this Article. If any such other insurance is
not supplied within the period of suspension of the license, the Village
President shall revoke the license for such vehicles.
   D.   Regular Telephone Service Required: Every holder of a public passenger
vehicle business license shall have and keep in service at all times while his
license is in effect, regular telephone service within the Village by means of
which a person desiring to rent a public passenger vehicle may call the
licensee by calling a local telephone number. The licensee shall cause the
telephone number to be listed in the local telephone directory which is
published in and for the Municipality by the telephone company which furnishes
local telephone service in the Village.
   E.   Public Passenger Service: All persons engaged in the public passenger
vehicle business in the Village operating under the provisions of this Code
shall operate every public passenger vehicle regularly in the Village to the
extent reasonably necessary to meet the public demands for passenger service.
They shall maintain a central place of business for the purpose of receiving
calls and dispatching vehicles. They shall answer all calls received by them
for service within the corporate limits of the Village as soon as they can do
so, and if said service cannot be rendered within a reasonable time, they shall
notify the prospective passengers how long it will be before the said call can
be answered and give the reason therefor. Any licensee who shall refuse to
accept a call anywhere within the corporate limits of the Village at any time
when such licensee has available vehicles, or who shall fail or refuse to give
overall service, shall be deemed in violation of this Code.
   F.   License Fee; Issuance: If the applicant conforms to the provisions of
this Code, and the application and background reveal nothing of a nature that
might endanger the health, safety and welfare of the general public as a result
of the possession of a license, then the Village Clerk shall issue a business
license upon receipt of the fee set out in Chapter 3 of this Title, or the
prorated payment of the first year's license fee.
   G.   Renewal Of License: The business license may be renewed annually upon
payment of an annual business license fee as set out in Chapter 3 of this
Title.
   H.   Transfer Of License: No business license may be sold, assigned,
mortgaged, pledged or otherwise transferred.
   I.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License:
      1.   The business license may be suspended by the Village Clerk and
revoked by the Village President, if the holder has:
         a.   Violated any provisions of this Code.
         b.   Discontinued operations for more than thirty (30) days.
         c.   Violated any ordinance of the Village or the laws of the United
States or the State related to the fitness of the holder to offer public
transportation.
      2.   Prior to suspension or revocation, the holder shall be given thirty
(30) days' notice of the proposed action to be taken, and shall have an
opportunity to be heard.
   J.   Change Of Stock Ownership:
      1.   A corporation holding a public passenger business license shall
advise the Village thirty (30) days prior to any contemplated change of stock
ownership involving five percent (5%) or more of the stock of the corporation.
      2.   Each individual seeking to acquire five percent (5%) or more of the
stock of a corporation holding a public passenger vehicle license shall comply
with the provisions of this Article as though he were applying for a license as
an individual.
      3.   The provisions of this subsection do not apply to corporations whose
stock is traded publicly and listed on recognized stock exchanges. (Ord. 88-
1755, 7-25-1988; 1997 Code)
3-6A-3: PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to operate a public passenger
vehicle for hire within the corporate limits of the Village, or to utilize
designated public taxicab stands, unless such vehicle is licensed and operated
under the terms and provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988)
   B.   License Fee; Expiration Date: License fees per public passenger vehicle
shall be as set forth in Chapter 3 of this Title and shall expire on December
31, following the date of issuance. Any applicant not meeting the requirements
set forth in this Chapter shall be refused a license which will cause the fee
to be nonrefundable. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988; 1997 Code)
   C.   License Fees In Addition To Other Fees: Public passenger vehicle
license fee shall be in addition to all other State and Village vehicle fees
and also such compensation as may be required to be paid for the use of public
ways of the Village by any ordinance granting authority to operate any public
passenger vehicle upon such public ways.
   D.   Limitation On Number Of Licenses: There shall be no limitation on the
number of public passenger vehicle licenses issued, until such time as the
Village Board deems necessary.
   E.   Register Of Licenses: It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to keep
a register of names of persons to whom licenses are granted, the date issued,
the number of the license and the description of the vehicle licensed.
   F.   License Nontransferable: It shall be unlawful to transfer any public
passenger vehicle license from one vehicle to another. Transference of any
public passenger vehicle license shall be grounds for revocation of all license
privileges. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988)
   G.   Suspension Of Licenses:
      1.   Faulty, Unclean Equipment: If, after the inspection and approval of
any public passenger vehicle, as provided for in this Chapter, such public
passenger vehicle shall from any cause become unsafe for the transportation of
passengers, or shall become unclean or unsightly in appearance, the license of
such public passenger vehicle shall be suspended by the Village Clerk until the
public passenger vehicle and all its accessories shall be put in fit condition
for public use and has been approved and inspected, as provided in this
Chapter.
      2.   False Statements By Licensee: In the event that the Village Clerk,
after investigation, shall determine that any licensee has obtained any license
for any public passenger vehicle by fraud, or false representation, or
misstatement of facts, the Village Clerk may, at his discretion, suspend such
license.
      3.   Default In Observance Of Provisions: In the event that any licensee
shall make default in the observance or performance of any one or more of the
agreements, conditions or obligations imposed upon such licensee by this
Article, and if any such default shall continue for a period of five (5) days
after written notice thereof from the Village Clerk, or his representative, to
the licensee citing the alleged default on the part of the licensee, then in
each and every such case, in addition to all rights and remedies of the Village
in such case, the Village Clerk may suspend, or the President of the Board of
Trustees may revoke, all public passenger vehicle licenses held by such
licensee, as provided in this Code. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988; 1997 Code)
3-6A-4: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Inspection:
      1.   The Director of Law Enforcement Services will cause inspection of
public passenger vehicles to be done two (2) times per year at a State licensed
inspection lane at the owner's/operator's expense. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988)
      2.   Any public passenger vehicle company, after being notified to bring
all their public passenger vehicles in for inspection, will be allowed seven
(7) days to bring their vehicles in for inspection. After seven (7) days, the
license of all public passenger vehicles not inspected will be suspended by
direction of the Village Clerk. Such inspection will include, but not be
limited to, the following: (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988; 1997 Code)
         a.   Vehicle, make, year and vehicle identification number.
         b.   State license number and year.
         c.   Village business license number and year.
         d.   Village vehicle license number and year.
         e.   Vehicle color.
         f.   Vehicle number.
         g.   Company name.
         h.   Service brakes.
         i.   Emergency brakes.
         j.   Horn.
         k.   Rear view mirror.
         l.   Windshield wipers and washers.
         m.   Headlights.
         n.   Taillights.
         o.   Stop lights.
         p.   Turn signals.
         q.   Speedometer.
         r.   Taximeter.
         s.   Rates displayed.
         t.   Steering.
         u.   Interior condition.
         v.   Exterior condition.
         w.   Windows.
         x.   Tires.
         y.   Current bond sticker.
      3.   If any public passenger vehicle fails to pass inspection as required
in this Article, a period of five (5) working days will be extended to allow
repairs. The vehicle cannot be used as a public passenger vehicle for hire
until repairs have been completed and it passes reinspection. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-
25-1988)
      4.   If repairs are not completed and the public passenger vehicle does
not pass reinspection within the five (5) working day period, its public
passenger vehicle license will be suspended by direction of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988; 1997 Code)
      5.   Notwithstanding passage of a State licensed inspection lane, all
public passenger vehicles licensed by the Village shall, at all times, be
maintained in good repair and in a clean and neat condition. Any vehicle found
by the Director of Law Enforcement Services not to be in good repair or in a
clean and neat condition shall be prohibited from being used as a public
passenger vehicle for hire until such time as repairs shall be made and the
vehicle returned to good repair, or a neat and clean condition.
   B.   Name Of Owner Displayed On Taxicabs; Advertising Prohibited: Every
licensed taxicab shall bear on both sides of the vehicle in lettering in
contrast to the color of the vehicle, not less than two inches (2") in height,
the name of the cab company and its telephone number. All other commercial
advertising, including flashing lights and other attention-getting devices, is
prohibited.
   C.   Vehicle License Decal: The Village Clerk shall assign to each public
passenger vehicle a numbered vehicle license decal which shall be affixed to
the certified inspection plate. Such inspection plate shall be visibly
displayed in the lower left- hand corner of the rear window of the public
passenger vehicle.
   D.   Identification Number On Taxicabs: Each taxicab shall bear on both
exterior sides of the vehicle a minimum of three inches (3") in height and in a
conspicuous location with the passenger compartment four inches (4") in height,
in Arabic numerals, the identification number assigned to such vehicle by the
taxicab company. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988)
3-6A-5: CHAUFFEUR'S LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any
public passenger vehicle for hire within the Village without first having
obtained a public passenger vehicle chauffeur's license.
   B.   Unlawful To Employ Unlicensed Driver: No person owning, controlling or
operating any public passenger vehicle for hire within the Village shall
employ, or permit any person other than a licensed chauffeur, to operate such
vehicle upon the public ways in the corporate limits of the Village.
   C.   Application For License; Issuance:
      1.   Application Required: Any person desiring to secure a license as a
chauffeur of any public passenger vehicle under this Chapter and used for the
carriage of passengers for hire and reward, shall make application in writing
therefor to the Village upon form provided.
      2.   Contents Of Application: The application for a license as a
chauffeur of any public passenger vehicle mentioned in this Chapter shall set
forth the name of the applicant, his/her residence and occupation, current
status of his/her Illinois driver's license and number as given by the
Secretary of State of Illinois. He/she should be a fit person to drive or
operate a public passenger vehicle. Such applicant shall also indicate whether
or not he/she has ever had his/her State driver's license suspended or revoked
and if so, for what cause. Said applicant shall also indicate whether or not
he/she has ever been arrested and if so, for what cause. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-
1988)
      3.   Qualifications Of Applicant; Issuance Of License: Every applicant
for a license under this Chapter shall be eighteen (18) years of age or over.
Upon such application, the Director of Law Enforcement Services shall make, or
cause to be made, a careful and diligent inquiry as to the character, moral
turpitude, criminal and driving record of the applicant, and if it shall be
found that such applicant is deficient in any respect, such license shall be
refused for the entire year for which the license is sought. If the Director of
Law Enforcement Services shall be satisfied that the applicant is a fit person
to be licensed, such application shall be approved and the license issued.
   D.   Display Of Public Passenger Vehicle Chauffeur's License: The public
passenger vehicle chauffeur's license required by this Article shall be
displayed at all times in the public passenger vehicle in plain view of the
passenger. The applicant is not permitted to drive on a paid receipt issued by
the Village. The applicant must await processing through the Department of Law
Enforcement Services and the issuance of the chauffeur's license to operate a
public passenger vehicle. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988; 1997 Code)
   E.   License Fee And Expiration Date: The fee for a public passenger vehicle
chauffeur's license shall be as set forth in Chapter 3 of this Title, and such
license shall expire on December 31 following the date of issuance.
   F.   Transfer Of Chauffeur's License Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to
transfer any public passenger vehicle chauffeur's license from one person to
another. Transference of such license shall be grounds for revocation. (Ord.
88-1755, 7-25-1988)
   G.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: In the case of any violation of
any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any traffic ordinance or regulation,
or any State law, the Village Clerk, at his discretion, may suspend, or the
President of the Board of Trustees may revoke, any passenger vehicle
chauffeur's license, as provided in Section
3-1-20 of this Title. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988; 1997 Code)
3-6A-6: LIVERY VEHICLES:
   A.   Fee And Inspection Required: No livery vehicle offered for hire by a
business licensed in the Village shall be operated unless an annual fee as set
forth in Chapter 3 of this Title is paid to the Village for each vehicle
operated as a limousine. The payment of the annual fee will be evidenced by a
windshield sticker issued by the Village which will issue instructions for
display of the sticker. In addition, each limousine shall be required to
successfully complete the same safety inspections as prescribed for taxicabs
(subsection 3-6A-4A of this Article).
   B.   Chauffeur's License Required: No person shall operate a limousine in
the Village, and no person who owns or controls a limousine shall permit it to
be so driven, and no limousine licensed by the Village shall be so driven at
any time for hire, unless the driver of said limousine shall have first
obtained and shall have then in force a public passenger vehicle chauffeur's
license issued under the provisions of this Article.
   C.   Operation Restrictions:
      1.   Soliciting Passengers: Livery vehicles shall not pick up or solicit
passengers for hire from the streets.
      2.   Parking In Taxicab Stands: Livery vehicles shall not park in taxicab
stands.
      3.   Contract For Service Only: Livery vehicles shall not
indiscriminately accept passengers, but shall be limited in scope of operation
to carrying passengers for hire on a contract basis at a price agreed upon
prior to employment, and by arrangement of the parties at the time of initial
telephone contact by customer to livery company. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988)
3-6A-7: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Submission To Village: All licensees, owners or operators of taxicabs
shall submit to the Village Clerk every six (6) months, on January 1 and July
1, a notarized copy of the taxicab rates in effect on those dates and not less
than sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of any proposed rate change.
Every person shall be entitled to the service of the licensee at such
established rates and charges. Notwithstanding the above, the Village reserves
the right to establish rates and charges for taxicabs at any time. (Ord. 88-
1755, 7-25-1988; 1997 Code)
   B.   Posting Required: There shall be affixed on the inside of each taxicab
in a conspicuous place and in such manner that the same may be easily and
conveniently read by any person riding in such taxicab, a card in a frame
covered by glass or other transparent material upon which card shall be printed
in plain, legible type the rates of fare as prescribed by subsection A above.
(Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988)
3-6A-8: TAXIMETERS:
   A.   Working Meter Required: No taxicab shall operate with passengers for
hire unless the taximeter shall be accurately recording the fare to be charged.
   B.   Flag On Meters: Taximeter shall be equipped with a flag at least three
inches (3") by two inches (2") in size, either painted red or bearing thereon
letters at least one inch (1") in height, the word "Vacant" or the words "For
Hire". The flag post of such flag shall be kept towards a vertical position
when the taxicab is for hire and such flag post shall be immediately pulled
down and kept in a horizontal position when such taxicab is engaged, and the
taximeter shall register the fare as provided in subsection 3-6A-7A of this
Article.
   C.   Position And Illumination Of Taximeter: A taximeter shall be so located
that its face can be seen by a passenger from the rear compartment of the
vehicle. Adequate lighting facilities shall be provided for so illuminating the
face of the taximeter that the indications thereof may be conveniently read by
the passenger, and the face of the taximeter shall be so illuminated whenever
the taximeter is in operation and artificial illumination is necessary for the
convenient reading of its indications. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988)
   D.   Taximeter Distance Test:
      1.   A distance test of a taximeter shall be conducted by the test method
prescribed by the Director of Law Enforcement Services. Any taxicab company,
after being notified to bring their vehicles in for inspection will be allowed
seven (7) days to produce their vehicle for inspection.
      2.   The Village shall designate and certify their public passenger
vehicle inspection station(s), supply them with certified inspection forms and
procedures, as well as the numbered certified vehicle inspection stickers.
Also, the Village shall be responsible for spot checks of their inspection
station(s) to ensure compliance of the inspection procedures. After seven (7)
days, the license of all taxicabs not inspected will be suspended by the
Village Clerk. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988; 1997 Code)
   E.   Transfer Of Meter: No person controlling or operating any taxicab shall
transfer any taximeter to any other taxicab, unless a new inspection and
certification of such taximeter is made.
   F.   Tampering With Meters Prohibited: No person shall tamper with, break or
mutilate any taximeter, cable or seal thereof. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988)
3-6A-9: RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Picking Up Additional Passengers After Vehicle Engaged: After any
operator, or person in charge of any public passenger vehicle used for hire or
reward, has been hired by one or more persons traveling together, such operator
shall not pick up other persons without the express permission of the person
first engaging the public passenger vehicle. An appropriate sign shall be
posted indicating the restrictions on shared rides.
   B.   Cruising And Soliciting: No driver of a public passenger vehicle
licensed under the provisions of this Chapter shall seek employment by
repeatedly or persistently driving his/her vehicle to and fro in a short space
before any theatre, hotel, railway station, or by otherwise interfering with
the proper and orderly ingress to or egress from any such place.
   C.   Distinctive Color And Logo Required: No taxicab, or the owner of a
taxicab, shall be licensed under the provisions of this Chapter if the vehicle
sought to be licensed as a taxicab is painted or labeled as to be so similar to
the automobiles or similar vehicle of any other person licensed and engaged in
the business of operating taxicabs in the Village as to be imitation thereof,
and calculated to deceive the patrons of taxicabs into believing that such
vehicles are in reality the taxicabs of such other person.
   D.   Number Of Passengers: No driver or operator of a public passenger
vehicle shall carry more than the rated passenger load per vehicle. (Ord. 88-
1755, 7-25-1988)
3-6A-10: RIGHTS OF FOREIGN PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLES:
Foreign public passenger vehicle companies licensed in another municipality or
meeting the statutory requirements for public carriers shall be permitted to
deliver passengers picked up outside of the Village to a destination in the
Village and shall be permitted to pick up passengers who arrange for services
within the Village limits for delivery to a location outside the Village
limits, without a license. Public passenger vehicle companies shall not be
permitted to pick up passengers within the Village for delivery to a location
within the Village, or to occupy public taxicab stands without having first
obtained a license and otherwise complying with all of the provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988)
3-6A-11: TAXICAB STANDS:
   A.   Establishment: Public taxicab stands shall be established from time to
time by the Village Board of Trustees as follows:
Hillgrove Avenue - South side - two (2) adjacent spaces between Lawn Avenue and
Grand Avenue.
   B.   Marking: Each public taxicab stand shall be appropriately marked and
erected under supervision of the Village Manager.
   C.   Use Of Stands:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle other than a taxicab
licensed by the Village in any public taxicab stand.
      2.   Only taxicabs licensed by the Village may be parked in any public
taxicab stand while such taxicab is occupied by its driver on duty awaiting a
fare. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988)
3-6A-12: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
In case of any violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any
traffic ordinance or regulation, or any State law, the Village Clerk, at his
discretion, may suspend, or the President of the Board of Trustees may revoke,
any license, as provided in Section
3-1-20 of this Title. (Ord. 88-1755, 7-25-1988; 1997 Code)
ARTICLE B. SCAVENGERS
SECTION:
3-6B-1: License Required
3-6B-2: Classification Of Scavengers
3-6B-3: Application For License; Issuance
3-6B-4: Number Of Licenses; Fees
3-6B-5: Insurance Requirements
3-6B-6: Vehicles And Equipment Requirements
3-6B-7: Disposal
3-6B-8: Special Definitions
3-6B-9: Title To Waste
CROSS REFERENCES
   Title 3 (Business Regulations), Chapter 3 (Licensed Businesses And
Occupations; Schedule Of Fees), Section 3-3-2 (License Fees)
   Title 5 (Public Health And Safety), Chapter 4 (Solid Waste, Landscape Waste
And Recycling)
STATUTORY REFERENCES
   Disposal of Refuse, Garbage and Ashes in Municipalities, see 65 ILCS 5/11-
19-1 et seq.
   Household Goods Recycling Bins, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-16
   Illinois Environmental Protection Act (Land Pollution and Refuse Disposal),
see 415 ILCS 5/20 et seq.
   Illinois Motor Vehicle Code (Spilling Loads On Highways Prohibited), see 625
ILCS 5/15-109 et seq.
   Illinois Solid Waste Management Act, see 415 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
   Litter Control Act, see 415 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
   Local Solid Waste Disposal Act, see 415 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
   Removal of Garbage and Debris, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13
   Removal of Landscape Waste, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-14
   Solid Waste Hauling and Recycling Program Act, see 415 ILCS 12/1 et seq.
   Solid Waste Planning and Recycling Act, see 415 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
3-6B-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of scavenger activities, or the
collection of construction debris, electronic waste or e- recyclable items,
hazardous waste, landscape waste, medical waste, municipal solid waste, special
waste, solid waste or recyclable materials, as these terms are defined by this
Code or by applicable law or regulation, within the corporate limits of the
Village without having first secured a license to conduct such business. (Ord.
97-1992, 1-27-1997; amd. Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-2019)
3-6B-2: CLASSIFICATION OF SCAVENGERS:
   A.   Residential Scavengers: The Village may, from time to time, enter into
exclusive or non-exclusive contracts with one (1) or more scavengers to provide
collection and removal service of construction debris, electronic waste or e-
recyclable items, landscape waste, solid waste, or recyclable materials to
single- and multi-family dwelling units containing four (4) units or less
within the Village for the price and under terms and conditions contained in
the contracts and subject to the limitations contained in this Code. All
Village approved residential scavengers shall be issued a Village license prior
to providing such collection and removal services.
   B.   Commercial Scavengers: The Village may, from time to time, enter into
exclusive or non-exclusive contracts with one (1) or more commercial scavengers
or issue annual licenses to commercial scavengers subject to the limitations
contained in this Code to provide collection and removal service of
construction debris, electronic waste or e- recyclable items, hazardous waste,
landscape waste, medical waste, municipal solid waste, special waste, solid
waste or recyclable materials at commercial establishments (for example,
business establishments, medical facilities and offices, municipal buildings,
religious and civic organizations, construction work sites, industrial
establishments and dwelling units containing more than four (4) units) within
the Village. All Village approved commercial scavengers shall be issued a
Village license prior to providing such collection and removal services.
   C.   Intermittent Scavengers: The Village may issue annual licenses subject
to the limitations contained in this Code to scavengers not already licensed
under subsection A or B of this Section to provide for intermittent collection
and removal of construction debris, electronic waste or e- recyclable items,
hazardous waste, landscape waste, medical waste, municipal solid waste, special
waste, solid waste or recyclable materials within the Village. All Village
approved intermittent scavengers shall be issued a Village license prior to
providing such collection and removal services. (Ord. 97-1992, 1-27-1997; amd.
Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-2019)
3-6B-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE:
Applications for scavenger licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk.
Licenses for the collection and removal of construction debris, electronic
waste or e-recyclable items, landscape waste, solid waste or recyclable
materials from single-family or multi-family residential units containing four
(4) units or less shall be issued only to the contractors having contracts for
the collection and removal of such materials with the Village. Other licenses
shall be issued by the Village Clerk after the application has been reviewed by
the Village Manager and signed by the Village President, and satisfactory
evidence has been received that the license complies with the terms of this
Chapter and all other sections of this Code. Each application shall be
accompanied by the following:
   A.   A list of all communities presently serviced by the applicant, and any
communities where service has been discontinued within the last two (2) years.
   B.   Satisfactory evidence of the availability to the applicant for the full
license period of a sanitary landfill site or other authorized disposal
facility at which all construction debris, electronic waste or e- recyclable
items, hazardous waste, landscape waste, medical waste, municipal solid waste,
special waste, solid waste or recyclable materials collected and removed from
the Village may be disposed of and evidence that such landfill or disposal
facility is operating in accordance with all applicable Federal, State, or
local regulations.
   C.   A list of the equipment to be used to render service in the event a
license is issued indicating the make, year, size and condition of each vehicle
to be utilized within the Village.
   D.   A customer list with service addresses within the Village that the
applicant provides services to. (Ord. 97-1992, 1-27-1997; amd. Ord. 19-2981,
11-25-2019)
3-6B-4: NUMBER OF LICENSES; FEES:
   A.   Number Of Licenses: The number of licenses issued by the Village shall
be limited as follows:
      1.   Residential Scavengers: Annual licenses shall be issued to a
residential scavenger only if the scavenger has a contract with the Village to
provide waste collection and removal services within the Village. Such licenses
shall not restrict the licensee(s) from collecting waste from multi-family
dwellings containing more than four (4) units or commercial establishments.
      2.   Commercial Scavengers: Annual licenses shall be issued to all those
applicants who apply for a license as a commercial scavenger for waste
collection and removal from multi-family dwellings or commercial establishments
on a regular basis within the corporate limits of the Village, provided the
applicants satisfy the requirements contained in this Code and pay the annual
license fee.
      3.   Intermittent Scavengers: Annual licenses shall be issued to all
those applicants who apply for a license as an intermittent scavenger and who
satisfy the requirements contained in this Code, and pay the annual license
fee.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Fees Established: The fees for such licenses shall be established
from time to time by the Village Board and set forth in Chapter 3 of this
Title.
      2.   Nonrefundable Fee: Revocation of a license by action of the
President and Board of Trustees shall not entitle licensee to a refund of all
or any part of the license fee. (Ord. 97-1992, 1-27-1997; amd. Ord. 19-2981,
11-25-2019)
3-6B-5: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Amount Of Insurance: Prior to the issuance of a license, the applicant
shall present to the Village Clerk a certificate of insurance issued by an
insurance company licensed to do business in the State that evidences insurance
covering the applicant against public liability and property damage with limits
of liability not less than the following:
 
Worker's compensation              Statutory as amended from time to time
Employer's liability               $ 500,000.00 each occurrence
Bodily injury liability, except    500,000.00 each occurrence
automobile                         1,000,000.00 aggregate
Property damage liability, except  500,000.00 each occurrence
automobile                         1,000,000.00 aggregate
Automobile bodily injury liability 1,000,000.00 each person
                                   3,000,000.00 each occurrence
Automobile property damage         500,000.00 each occurrence
 
   B.   Cancellation: Each such certificate shall have an endorsement to the
effect that such insurance may not be cancelled by the insurer thereof without
at least sixty (60) days' prior written notice to the Village. (Ord. 97-1992,
1-27-1997)
3-6B-6: VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The licensee shall use only modern, enclosed, leakproof, packer-type disposal
truck bodies for all regularly scheduled residential and commercial service.
Other vehicles used for the purpose of removing and disposing of waste covered
by this Code shall be watertight and equipped with airtight covers. (Ord. 97-
1992, 1-27-1997; amd. Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-2019)
3-6B-7: DISPOSAL:
All waste covered by this Code collected in the Village shall be removed and
disposed of outside the corporate limits of the Village before the close of
business on the day collected. (Ord. 97-1992, 1-27-1997; amd. Ord. 19-2981, 11-
25-2019)
3-6B-8: SPECIAL DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Code, the following definitions apply:
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS: Shall have the same meaning as in the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq. and the regulations adopted
thereunder.
ELECTRONIC WASTE OR E-RECYCLABLE ITEMS: Any item defined as a "covered
electronic device" by 415 ILCS 150, the Illinois Electronics Products Recycling
and Refuse Act. E-recyclable items shall include, but not be limited to,
computers, computer monitors, televisions, printers, keyboards, fax machines,
videocassette recorders, portable digital music players, digital video disc
players, video game consoles, computer mice, scanners, digital converter boxes,
cable receivers, satellite receivers, digital video disc recorders or small-
scale servers, or any other electronic device banned from landfill disposal by
the State of Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Electronic Products Recycling
and Reuse Act.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Waste or combination of wastes which, because of its quantity,
concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may cause
or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in
serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or pose a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when
improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of, or otherwise managed,
or which has been identified, by characteristics or listing, as being hazardous
or having such impacts pursuant to Section 3001 of the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act of 1976 (P.L. 94-580), pursuant to Pollution Control Board,
Federal Regulations or other applicable laws, ordinances or regulations.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree
limbs, trees and other material accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees, which are generated by a residential unit.
Christmas trees will be considered “landscape waste.” Christmas trees will be
considered “landscape waste,” but may be collected by the contractor under a
special pick-up schedule.
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE: Any solid waste resulting from the operation of Village
buildings, facilities and properties, other Village-designated public
buildings, facilities and properties, the Downtown Business District and from
Village-sponsored special events and other community activities.
PLACED FOR COLLECTION: Placement at the curb, alley, or at the back door for
collection by the Village.
SOLID WASTE: Refuse, garbage or other discarded material generated by those
residing in residential units and by those occupying non-residential structures
within the Village, including all waste, as defined by Section 3.53 of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/3.53, which is not hazardous,
and other discarded or abandoned material including, without limitation,
garbage, refuse, rubbish, bulk items and small amounts of building materials
and construction or demolition debris, or other similar waste. “Solid waste”
shall not include bulk items, construction debris, e-recyclables, hazardous
waste, landscape waste, recyclable materials and white goods. (Ord. 97-2004, 4-
28-1997; amd. Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-2019)
3-6B-9: TITLE TO WASTE:
Title to any waste covered by this Code shall pass to the scavenger when
collected by the scavenger, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the
contracting parties. (Ord. 97-2004, 4-28-1997; amd. Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-2019)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS IV: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Application Of Provisions
3-7-2: Adoption Of Food Sanitation Code
3-7-3: Amendments To Food Sanitation Code
3-7-4: Home Kitchen Operations
3-7-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
In addition to other requirements listed in this Code, the following special
requirements shall apply to food service, food processing and retail food
establishments. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-7-2: ADOPTION OF FOOD SANITATION CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the Village for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing the licensing and operation of food service, food
processing and retail food establishments, that certain code known as the "Food
Service Sanitation" recommended by the State of Illinois, Department of Public
Health, being particularly the 1975 Edition thereof, save and except such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended (by Section
3-7-3 of this Chapter), of which Code not less than three (3) copies have been
and now are filed in the office of the Village Clerk, and the same are hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the
effective date hereof, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the Village. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-7-3: AMENDMENTS TO FOOD SANITATION CODE:
The Food Sanitation Code is amended and changed in the following respects:
Rule 1.01(q): The following paragraph of the Food Sanitation Code shall be
amended to read as follows as Rule 1.01 (q):
"Regulatory authority" means the Illinois Department of Public Health, or the
Village of Western Springs.
Rule 2.01(b): The following paragraph shall be added to the Food Sanitation
Code as Rule 2.01(b):
No person shall manufacture for sale, produce, offer for sale or sell any
product, drug, or article of food which is adulterated, misbranded or
insufficiently labeled. The term "misbranded" as used herein, shall apply to
all articles of food or drink, the packages of which bear any statement, design
or device regarding such article or the ingredients or substance contained
therein which is false or misleading in any particular; it shall also apply to
any such products which are falsely branded as to the manufacturer, packer or
dealer who sells the same, or as to the state, territory or country in which it
is manufactured or produced. The term "insufficiently labeled" as used herein
shall mean if a package, bottle, or container of food does not bear the name of
the real manufacturer or jobber, the true grade or class of the product, and
the true net weight or volume of the contents or the capacity or trade size of
the container.
Rule 3.01(a): The following paragraph of the Food Sanitation Code shall be
amended to read as follows as Rule 3.01(a):
No person while affected with a disease in a communicable form or while a
carrier of such disease, or while afflicted with boils, infected wounds, or
acute respiratory infection, shall work in a food service, food processing, or
retail food establishment in an area and capacity in which there is a
likelihood of transmission of disease to patrons or to fellow employees, either
through direct contact or through the contamination of food or food contact
surfaces with pathogenic organisms. No such person shall be employed in such an
area and capacity in a food service, food processing or retail food
establishment.
   (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
Article 10: The following paragraphs shall be added to the Food Sanitation Code
as Article 10:
Rule 10.01 - Enforcement of Food Sanitation Code. The Health Officer, the
Village Manager, and the police officers of the Village shall have the power to
enforce all laws of the State and the provisions of this Code in relation to
the food sanitation regulations of the Village. And for the purpose of carrying
out the foregoing, the Health Officer, or any agent thereof, the Village
Manager or his agent, or any police officer of the Village shall have authority
at all times to enter into any food establishment to inspect and record the
conditions and to inspect any article there held or offered for sale, which he
has reason to believe is decayed, poisoned, adulterated, infected or in any way
unfit for human consumption, to seize and confiscate the same forthwith. Any
person, whether owner, operator, or occupant of said store, room, or premises,
who shall obstruct such entry or inspection or interfere with such seizure or
confiscation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Rule 10.02 - Inspection of Food. The Health Officer or agent thereof, the
Village Manager or his agent and the police officers of the Village shall have
power and authority to open any package, can or vessel containing or supposed
to contain any article manufactured, sold, or exposed for sale, or held in
possession with intent to sell, in violation of the provisions of this Code,
and may inspect the contents thereof and may take samples therefrom for
analysis. All parties offering food products for sale shall render to such
officers all the assistance in their power, when so requested, in disclosing
the presence of any article prohibited by law, and in selecting samples of food
products as hereinafter provided.
Rule 10.03 - Samples and Selection. The Health Officer or the inspector taking
such samples as are provided in Rule 10.02 shall, in the case of bulk or broken
package goods, upon request of the dealer, divide the same into two (2) equal
parts, as nearly as may be, and in case of sealed and unbroken packages, he
shall select two (2) of said packages, which two (2) said packages shall
constitute the sample taken, and to properly identify the same, he shall in the
presence of the person from whom the sample is taken, mark or seal each half or
part or package of such sample with a paper seal or otherwise and shall write
thereon the date and the name of the dealer in whose place of business the
sample is found, and at the same time he shall give notice to the person from
whom said sample was taken, that said sample was obtained for the purpose of
chemical examination.
   (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
3-7-4: HOME KITCHEN OPERATIONS:
A “home kitchen operation” means a person who produces or packages non-
potentially hazardous baked goods in the kitchen of that person’s primary
domestic residence for direct sale by the owner or a family member. A person
who produces non-potentially hazardous baked goods for sale by a religious,
charitable, or nonprofit organization for fundraising purposes is exempt from
these requirements.
Home kitchen operations are authorized in the village, subject to the following
requirements:
   A.   Home kitchen operations shall obtain and maintain a village-issued
business license pursuant to section
3-1-1  (Licenses Required), Chapter 1 (General Licensing Procedures and
Regulations) of Title 3 (Business Regulations) of the village code.
   B.   Home kitchen operations shall submit a written disclosure to the
village yearly, on or before each May 1, including a federal employer
identification number, a copy of a current food protection manager
certification from the Illinois department of public health and such other
information and materials as the health officer may require.
   C.   Home kitchen operations shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Packaging or production shall be limited to non- potentially
hazardous baked goods, as defined in 410 ILCS 625/4(a), as amended from time to
time, which shall occur in a kitchen of a primary domestic residence for direct
sale by the owner or a family member.
      2.   Non-potentially hazardous baked goods include goods such as, but not
limited to, breads, cookies, cakes, pies, and pastries are allowed. Only high-
acid fruit pies that use the following fruits are allowed: apple, apricot,
grape, peach, plum, quince, orange, nectarine, tangerine, blackberry,
raspberry, blueberry, boysenberry, cherry, cranberry, strawberry, red currants,
or a combination of these fruits.
      3.   Monthly gross sales shall not exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
      4.   A notice shall be provided to the purchaser that the product was
produced in a home kitchen.
      5.   The food package shall conform to the labeling requirements of the
Illinois food, drug and cosmetic act and the FDA and the food package shall be
affixed with a label or other written notice provided to the purchaser that
includes:
         a.   The common or usual name of the food product;
         b.   Allergen labeling as specified in federal labeling requirements
by the United States food and drug administration;
         c.   The phrase “This product was produced in a home kitchen not
subject to public health inspection that may also process common food
allergens.”;
         d.   The date made; and
         e.   The name and address of the home kitchen operation.
      6.   The food shall be sold directly to the consumer.
      7.   At the point of sale, a placard is displayed in a prominent location
that states the following: “This product was produced in a home kitchen not
subject to public health inspection that may also process common food
allergens.”
      8.   The food shall be stored in the residence where it is produced or
packaged.
      9.   A food protection manager certification from the Illinois department
of public health shall be maintained.
      10.   Additional requirements, if any, from 410 ILCS 625/3.6, as amended
from time to time.
   D.   Upon receipt of a complaint regarding a home kitchen operation, the
health officer shall make or cause to have made an inspection of a home kitchen
operation. Other inspections, surveys, investigations and studies of home
kitchen operations shall be performed by the health officer as may be necessary
to determine that home kitchen operations are constructed, operated and
maintained in compliance with the standards and requirements set forth herein.
   E.   All applicable regulations of Title 10 (Development Control Ordinance)
(“DCO”) of the village code, specifically sections
10-4-4  (Accessory Uses And Structures) and
10-4-6  (Home Occupations) of Chapter 4 (Development Standards Of General
Applicability) of the DCO apply to home kitchen operations. (Ord. 21-3043, 5-
24-2021)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS VI: PEDDLERS,
SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Application Of Provisions
3-8-2: Definitions
3-8-3: Village Policy On Peddling, Soliciting And Canvassing
3-8-4: Hours And Days For Peddling, Soliciting Or Canvassing
3-8-5: Exception For Local Charitable Organizations
3-8-6: Exemption
3-8-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
In addition to other requirements listed in this code, the special provisions
of this chapter shall apply to certain businesses and occupations. (Ord. 81-
1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CANVASSER: A person who travels from residence to residence, or place to place,
without appointment, attempting to obtain signatures on petitions on behalf of
political parties or on petitions related to public policy questions, or a
"canvasser" may also solicit for gifts or contributions of money or property of
any kind while canvassing for signatures on petitions.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Any religious, benevolent, civic, educational, social
service, philanthropic, patriot, not for profit group, association or
corporation.
ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who transports tangible personal property for
retail sale within the village who does not maintain in the village an
established office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse, service center
or residence from which such business is conducted. However, the provisions of
this chapter do not apply to any person who delivers tangible personal property
within the village who is fulfilling an order for such property which was
solicited or placed by mail or other means. This chapter does not apply to any
person holding a valid license, issued by the village, to engage in retail
sales.
PEDDLER: A person commonly referred to as a peddler or hawker who sells or
offers for sale goods, insurance or services of any character or description
and merchandise, traveling from residence to residence or place to place
without appointment, or who sells or offers for sale and delivery from any
vehicle going from place to place, goods, wares and merchandise to purchasers.
PEDDLING: Means and includes the activities of any person, firm or agent or
employee of any corporation going in or upon any private residence, apartment
or premises in the village, without appointment, for the purpose of selling or
soliciting from the occupants thereof, or canvassing for, orders for goods,
wares and merchandise or services of any character or description or for the
purpose of offering to give or to furnish or giving or furnishing any goods,
wares, merchandise or services to any such occupants or inviting such orders
without first having obtained the consent of the occupant or occupants thereof.
RESIDENCE: Means and includes every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
SOLICITOR: A person who travels from residence to residence, or place to place,
without appointment and who, on behalf of a charitable organization, seeks to
obtain gifts or contributions of money or property of any kind or value,
including the payment for literature.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who is engaged temporarily in the retail sale of
goods, wares or merchandise in the village and who, for the purpose of
conducting such business, occupies any building, room, vehicle, structure of
any kind, or vacant lot. However, this chapter does not apply to any person
selling goods, wares or merchandise which are raised, produced or manufactured
by him, to any person selling vegetables, fruit or perishable farm products at
an established village market, to any person operating a store or refreshment
stand at a resort, to any person operating a stand or booth on or adjacent to
property owned by him or upon which he resides, to any person operating a stand
or booth at any fair in the village, or to any person operating a stand or
booth at a trade show, exposition, convention or similar event. This chapter
does not apply to any person holding a valid license, issued by the village, to
engage in retail sales. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. 1997
Code; Ord. 05-2357, 9-26-2005)
3-8-3: VILLAGE POLICY ON PEDDLING, SOLICITING AND CANVASSING:
   A.   Policy On Peddling, Soliciting And Canvassing: It is hereby declared to
be the policy of the corporate authorities of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether peddlers,
solicitors, canvassers, transient merchants or itinerant vendors shall be, or
shall not be, invited to their respective residences. If no determination is
made, as is provided in subsection B of this section, then in that event, the
peddling, soliciting or canvassing is permitted.
   B.   Notice Regulating Peddling, Soliciting And Canvassing: Every person
desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by the regulations
pertaining to peddling, soliciting or canvassing contained in this chapter
shall comply with the following directions:
      1.   Notice To Peddlers, Solicitors, Canvassers, Transient Merchants And
Itinerant Vendors: Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving
invitation to peddlers, solicitors, canvassers, transient merchants or
itinerant vendors or the refusal of invitation to peddlers, solicitors,
canvassers, transient merchants or itinerant vendors to any residence shall be
given by exhibiting upon request or near the main entrance door to the
residence, a weatherproof card approximately three inches by four inches (3" x
4") in size, indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the
applicable words, as follows:
ONLY PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS TRANSIENT MERCHANTS OR ITINERANT VENDORS
REGISTERED IN WESTERN SPRINGS INVITED
   or
NO PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS TRANSIENT MERCHANTS OR ITINERANT VENDORS
INVITED.
      2.   Print Requirements; Issuance Of Cards: The letters shall be at least
one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the purpose of uniformity, the cards shall
be provided free of charge at the village hall by the village clerk to persons
requesting same.
      3.   Effect Of Notice: Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient
notice to any peddler, solicitor, canvasser, transient merchant or itinerant
vendor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the information
contained thereon.
   C.   Duties Of Peddler, Solicitor, Canvasser, Transient Merchant Or
Itinerant Vendor: It shall be the duty of every peddler, solicitor, canvasser,
transient merchant or itinerant vendor upon going onto any premises in the
village upon which a "residence", as defined in section
3-8-2 of this chapter, is located, to first examine the notice provided for in
subsection B of this section, if any is attached, and be governed by the
statement contained on the notice. If the notice states "ONLY PEDDLERS,
SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS OR ITINERANT VENDORS LICENSED IN
WESTERN SPRINGS INVITED", then the peddler, solicitor, canvasser, transient
merchant or itinerant vendor not possessing a valid license, as provided in
this chapter, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises; and if
the notice states, "NO PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS OR
ITINERANT VENDORS INVITED", then the peddler, solicitor, canvasser, transient
merchant or itinerant vendor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and
peacefully depart from the premises. Any peddler, solicitor, canvasser,
transient merchant or itinerant vendor who has gained entrance to any
residence, whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises when requested to do so by the occupant.
   D.   Uninvited Peddling, Soliciting Or Canvassing Prohibited: It is hereby
declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to go
upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create any
sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant
of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant
thereof and engage in "peddling", "soliciting" or "canvassing", as defined in
section
3-8-2 of this chapter, in defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence in
accordance with the provisions of subsection B of this section. (Ord. 81-1601,
11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
3-8-4: HOURS AND DAYS FOR PEDDLING, SOLICITING OR CANVASSING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock on any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in "peddling",
"soliciting" or "canvassing", as herein defined, prior to nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. or after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. of any weekday and Saturday or at any
time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday. (Ord. 05-2357, 9-26-2005)
3-8-5: EXCEPTION FOR LOCAL CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS:
The registration and license requirements of this chapter may be waived by the
village clerk in those instances where the clerk has determined, following an
investigation made upon receipt of an application by an organization complying
with all of the conditions of this chapter as follows: The proposed peddling,
soliciting or canvassing is to be a single peddling, soliciting or canvassing
conducted for or on behalf of a charitable or nonprofit association,
organization, corporation or project solely by residents of the village who
shall not be compensated for conducting said peddling, soliciting or canvassing
and who have not violated any provisions of this chapter which would otherwise
cause a revocation of a registration certificate. This section shall in no way
modify the notice provisions of subsection
3-8-3B of this chapter, and no peddling, soliciting or canvassing pursuant to
this section shall be made of those residents displaying either of the two (2)
notices described in said subsection
3-8-3B of this chapter. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. 1997
Code)
3-8-6: EXEMPTION:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter, pursuant to
the United States supreme court's holding in Watchtower Bible and Tract Society
of New York, Inc. v. Village of Stratton, (2002 WL 1305851 - June 17, 2002),
any person engaging in the door to door advocacy of a particular position or
cause, with or without the distribution of pamphlets, handbills or literature
relative to said position or cause, shall not be subject to the registration
and licensing/permitting provisions of this chapter unless said person is also
engaging in the sale of goods or services, the taking of orders relative to the
sale of goods or services or the solicitation of funds while engaging in the
door to door advocacy of said position or cause. (Ord. 05-2357, 9-26-2005)
ARTICLE A. PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND
ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
3-8A-1: License Required
3-8A-2: Application For License; Payment Of Fee
3-8A-3: Issuance Of License; Restrictions
3-8A-4: Violations; Revocation Of License
3-8A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddler,
transient merchant or itinerant vendor in the Village without first having
obtained a license as herein provided. Such license shall be carried and
displayed by the peddler, transient merchant or itinerant vendor upon request
of any resident or police officer of the Village. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981,
eff. 1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
3-8A-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; PAYMENT OF FEE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Application for a license shall be made upon a
form provided by the Village Clerk and filed with the Clerk, who shall
immediately file a copy of said application with the Director of Law
Enforcement Services. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the
information requested on the application, which shall include the following:
      1.   Name and address of the present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also, business address, if other than residence
address; also social security number.
      2.   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years, if
other than present address.
      3.   Physical description of the applicant.
      4.   Name and address of the person, firm, or corporation or association
by whom the applicant is employed or represents; and the length of time of such
employment or representation.
      5.   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years, if
other than the present employer.
      6.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the peddling in which the applicant will engage.
      7.   Period of time for which the license is applied.
      8.   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for
a license under this Chapter, if any.
      9.   Whether a license issued to the applicant under this Chapter has
ever been revoked.
      10.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this Chapter or the ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality regulating peddling.
      11.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of
a felony under the laws of the State or any other state or Federal law of the
United States.
      12.   Such additional information as the Village Clerk may deem necessary
to process the application. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; 1997
Code)
      13.   All applications for a license shall be submitted with the
application fee as set out in Chapter 3 of this Title attached thereto. (Ord.
89-1775, 6-26-1989)
   B.   Oath Required: All statements made by the applicant upon the
application or in connection therewith shall be under oath.
   C.   Record Of Applications: The Village Clerk shall cause to be kept in his
office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon,
together with all other information and data pertaining thereto and all
licenses issued or denied under the provisions of this Chapter. Applications
for licenses shall be numbered in consecutive order, as filed, and every
license issued and any renewal thereof shall be identified with the duplicate
number of the application upon which it was issued. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981,
eff. 1-1-1982)
3-8A-3: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Issuance: When the applicant is found to be qualified, the license
shall be issued immediately, provided the applicant has paid the fee for a
peddler's, transient merchant's or itinerant vendor's license as provided in
Chapter 3 of this Title. Included on the license shall be information which
shall disclose the percentage of fees or donations collected by the holder of
said license which are paid to the holder of the license. Such license shall be
presented by the holder of the license to each resident. Immediately upon such
issuance, a copy of said license shall be forwarded to the Director of Law
Enforcement Services. (Ord. 89-1775, 6-26-1989; 1997 Code)
   B.   Restrictions On Issuance: No license shall be issued by the Village
Clerk to any person who has been convicted of the commission of a felony under
the laws of the State or any other state or Federal law of the United States,
within five (5) years of the date of the application, or has been convicted of
a violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter, or whose license issued
hereunder has previously been revoked, as herein provided. The license shall
state the expiration date thereof. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-8A-4: VIOLATIONS; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Fraud: Any person licensed under this Chapter who shall be guilty of
any fraud, cheating, misrepresentation or imposition either directly or through
the agency of any other person, while acting as either a peddler, hawker,
transient merchant or itinerant vendor or who shall sell or offer for sale or
solicit or canvass for orders for any publications, goods, wares, merchandise
or services other than those specified in his application for license, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; 1997 Code)
   B.   Revocation Of License: Any license issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the Village President if the holder of the license is convicted of a violation
of any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any other Village Code provisions,
or any State or Federal statutes, or has made a false material statement in the
application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a license
under the terms of this Chapter. Immediately upon such revocation, written
notice thereof shall be given by the Village Clerk to the holder of the license
in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed to his or her residence set forth
in the application. Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the license
shall become null and void. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; 1997
Code)
ARTICLE B. SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
3-8B-1: License Required
3-8B-2: Application For License; Payment Of Fee
3-8B-3: Approval Or Denial Of License; Restrictions On Issuance
3-8B-4: Revocation Of License
3-8B-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in soliciting or canvassing in
the village without having first obtained a license as herein provided, unless
the person qualifies for the exemption set forth at section
3-8-6 of this chapter. Such license shall be carried and displayed by the
solicitor or canvasser, upon request of any resident or police officer of the
village. (Ord. 05-2357, 9-26-2005)
3-8B-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; PAYMENT OF FEE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Application for a license to solicit or
canvass shall be made upon a form provided by the village clerk and filed with
the clerk, who shall immediately transmit a copy of said application with the
director of law enforcement services. The applicant shall truthfully state in
full the information requested on the application, which shall include the
following: (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
      1.   Name and address of the present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also, business address, if other than residence
address; also social security number.
      2.   Physical description of the applicant.
      3.   Name and address of the person, firm, or corporation or association
by whom the applicant is employed or represents; the length of time of such
employment or representation; and the name, address and telephone number of the
person or persons who will be directly responsible for the solicitations or
canvassing.
      4.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which the applicant will engage.
      5.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied.
      6.   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for
a certificate under this chapter, if any.
      7.   Whether a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this chapter has ever been revoked.
      8.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter or the ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting.
      9.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States.
      10.   A statement to the effect that if the license is granted it will
not be used or represented as an endorsement by the village. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-
17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
      11.   Such additional information as the director of law enforcement
services may deem necessary to process the application. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-
1981, eff. 1-1-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
      12.   All applications for a license shall be submitted with the
application fee as set out in chapter 3 of this title attached thereto. (Ord.
89-1775, 6-26-1989)
   B.   Oath Required: All statements made by the applicant upon the
application or in connection therewith shall be under oath.
   C.   Record Of Applications: The village clerk shall cause to be kept in his
office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon,
together with all other information and data pertaining thereto and all
licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of
applications. Applications for licenses shall be numbered in consecutive order,
as filed, and every license issued and any renewal thereof shall be identified
with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was issued. (Ord.
81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-8B-3: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE; RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE:
   A.   Denial Of License: The village clerk, after examination of the
application, shall deny the application if the applicant has been convicted of
the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any other state or
federal law of the United States, within five (5) years of the date of
application, or has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter, or whose license issued hereunder has previously been revoked, as
herein provided. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
   B.   Notice Of Approval Or Denial: The village clerk shall either issue a
license immediately or advise the applicant that the license will not be issued
for three (3) working days following the receipt of an application containing
the information required by this chapter for the issuance of a license.
Included on the license shall be information which shall disclose the
percentage of fees or donations collected by the holder of the license which
are paid to the holder of the license. Such license shall be presented by the
holder of the license to each resident. Immediately upon issuance, the village
clerk will transmit a copy of said license to the director of law enforcement
services. (Ord. 89-1775, 6-26-1989; amd. 1997 Code)
   C.   Restrictions On Issuance: No license shall be issued to any person who
has been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or
any other state or federal law of the United States, within five (5) years of
the date of the application, or has been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whose license issued hereunder has previously
been revoked, as herein provided. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981, eff. 1-1-1982)
3-8B-4: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued hereunder shall be revoked by the village president or
director of law enforcement services if the holder of the license is convicted
of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or has made a false
material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for
the issuance of a license under the terms of this chapter. Immediately upon
such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the village clerk to
the holder of the license in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed to his
or her residence set forth in the application. Immediately upon the giving of
such notice, the license shall become null and void. (Ord. 81-1601, 11-17-1981,
eff. 1-1-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 9
REGULATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Legislative Findings And Declaration
3-9-2: Definitions
3-9-3: License Required; Eligibility If Debt Owed To Village
3-9-4: License Application
3-9-5: License Fee
3-9-6: Prohibition On Sales Or Distribution
3-9-7: Minimum Age To Sell Tobacco Products
3-9-8: Purchase Or Possession By Persons Under Twenty One Prohibited
3-9-9: Responsibility For Agents And Employees
3-9-10: Enforcement And Administration
3-9-11: Suspension, Revocation Of License; Fines; Costs
3-9-12: Use Of Premises After Revocation
3-9-13: Effective Date
3-9-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND DECLARATION:
The Village President and Board of Trustees expressly find that:
   A.   Findings:
      1.   Cigarette smoking is dangerous to human health;
      2.   There exists substantial scientific evidence that the use of tobacco
products causes cancer, heart disease and various other medical disorders;
      3.   The Surgeon General of the United States has declared that nicotine
addiction from tobacco is similar to addiction to cocaine, and is the most
widespread example of drug dependence in this country;
      4.   The Director of the National Institute On Drug Abuse concluded that
the majority of Americans who die each year from cigarette smoking became
addicted to nicotine as adolescents before the age of legal consent; (Ord. 18-
2930, 8-20-2018)
      5.   The National Institute On Drug Abuse found that cigarette smoking
precedes and may be predictive of adolescent illicit drug use;
      6.   The present legislative scheme of prohibiting sales of tobacco
products to persons under the age of twenty one (21) has proven ineffective in
preventing such persons from using tobacco; (Ord. 19-2958, 6-24-2019)
      7.   The United States Food and Drug Administration has warned about the
possible adverse health effects brought about by the use of electronic
cigarettes ("e-cigarettes") and other alternative nicotine products, as they
have been found to contain carcinogens and toxic chemicals such as diethylene
glycol, an ingredient used in antifreeze, and has further warned that the
health effects of e-cigarettes, including any potential negative health effects
of second-hand smoke inhalation, are unknown at this time; and
      8.   The use of alternative nicotine products, e-cigarettes and similar
devices should be restricted within the Village in the same manner as the use
of pipes, cigars or cigarettes containing tobacco. (Ord. 18-2930, 8-20-2018)
   B.   Declaration: The enactment of this chapter directly pertains to and is
in furtherance of the health, welfare and safety of the residents of the
Village, particularly those residents under twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord.
02-2201, 7-15-2002; amd. Ord. 19-2958, 6-24-2019)
3-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: Means a product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means and includes, but is not limited to, e-
cigarettes. Alternative nicotine product excludes cigarettes, smokeless
tobacco, or other tobacco products as these terms are defined in section 1 of
the Prevention of Tobacco Use by Minors and Sale and Distribution of Tobacco
Products Act 1  and any product approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration as a non-tobacco product for sale as a tobacco cessation
product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is
being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
CHAPTER: The Regulation of Tobacco Products Ordinance.
DISTRIBUTE: To give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue or offer to give, sell,
deliver, dispense or issue, or cause or hire any person to give, sell, deliver,
dispense, issue or offer to give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue.
E-CIGARETTE: A device, usually battery-powered, that heats nicotine, releasing
a nicotine vapor that can be inhaled by the user of the device. Not by way of
limitation, the term "e-cigarette" includes e-cigar, e-cigarillo, e-pipe, e-
hookah, or any other device that heats nicotine, releasing a nicotine vapor
that can be inhaled by the user of the device.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
Circuit Court of the State but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act.
LICENSEE: Any "person" (as defined herein) who obtains a tobacco product
retailer's license under this chapter.
MINOR: A person who has not yet reached eighteen (18) years of age.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, limited liability company, partnership, joint
venture, association, corporation, estate, trust, trustee, or any other group
or combination acting as a unit, excepting the United States of America, the
State of Illinois, and any political subdivision thereof.
PHOTOGRAPHIC IDENTIFICATION: Any officially issued card containing the bearer's
date of birth that includes a photograph of the person seeking to purchase
tobacco products and that is accepted as proof of age under Illinois law.
POINT OF SALE: A store, building, structure, or any other separate place of
business maintained by a seller from which tobacco products are made available
for sale or distribution to consumers. Point of sale does not include separate
cash registers or service counters within a store or other place of business.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any area to which the public is invited or permitted.
RETAILER: Any person who sells tobacco products to individuals for personal
consumption.
TOBACCO PRODUCT SAMPLE: A tobacco product distributed to members of the general
public at no cost or at nominal cost for purposes of promoting the product.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, snuff, smoking tobacco, and/or smokeless
tobacco. The term "tobacco products" also includes "alternative nicotine
product" and "e-cigarette" even if certain alternative nicotine products and e-
cigarettes do not contain any tobacco.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electronic or self-service device which upon
insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, automatically
dispenses tobacco products. (Ord. 18-2930, 8-20-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 675/1 et seq.
3-9-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; ELIGIBILITY IF DEBT OWED TO VILLAGE:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at
retail, to give away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling at
retail, giving away or delivering tobacco products within the Village without
having first obtained a tobacco dealer’s license therefor pursuant to this
chapter.
      1.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Chapter.
   B.   License; Point Of Sale: A separate license must be obtained for each
point of sale maintained by the retailer. The license to sell tobacco products
shall be displayed prominently at the point of sale for which it is issued. A
license to sell tobacco products is a privilege, not a property right, and the
issuance or renewal of such a license is within the discretion of the Village
Manager based on the criteria of the public health, welfare and safety of the
Village, its residents and the public. Such license shall be in addition to any
other license required by this Code.
   C.   License; Administration: The Code Enforcement Department shall
administer the licensing of retailers of tobacco products and shall recommend
to the Village Manager approval or denial of all applications for licenses.
   D.   License; Transfer Prohibited: The transfer of any license issued under
this chapter is prohibited. Any such purported transfer is void.
   E.   Duration: A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid from
January 1 of each year and shall expire on December 31 following the date of
issuance, unless suspended or revoked. (Ord. 02-2201, 7-15-2002; amd. Ord. 22-
3091, 7-11-2022)
3-9-4: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   Application: An application for a license hereunder shall be made in
writing to the Director of the Code Enforcement Department and shall be
processed in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the provisions of
chapter 1, "General Licensing Procedures And Regulations", of this title.
   B.   Filing; Applicant Information: An application for a tobacco retailer's
license shall be filed in writing with the Code Enforcement Department on a
form provided by the department. Each application for a license shall contain,
at a minimum, the following:
      1.   The applicant's full name, the address and telephone number where
the applicant is engaged in the business of the retail sale of tobacco products
and the name, address and telephone number of the person authorized to receive
notices issued pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   If the applicant is a corporation or a limited liability company:
the legal corporate or company name; the business or "assumed" name; the
address and telephone number of the principal place of business; the date and
state of incorporation or organization; the names of all officers, directors,
shareholders and members; and the name, address, and telephone number of the
person authorized to receive notices issued pursuant to this chapter.
      3.   If the applicant is a partnership: the name, address and telephone
number of the principal place of business; the names of all partners; and the
name, address and telephone number of a person authorized to receive notices
issued pursuant to this chapter.
      4.   If the applicant is incorporated or organized in the State of
Illinois or in a state other than the State of Illinois, he or she must provide
to the Village the document pursuant to which the company is qualified under
Illinois law to transact business in Illinois and further provide a copy of the
articles of incorporation and shareholders agreement, or the articles of
organization and operating agreement, or a partnership agreement. (Ord. 02-
2201, 7-15-2002)
3-9-5: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   The annual license fee for a tobacco dealer's license shall be one
hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00). The annual license fee for retailers who
desire to sell tobacco products from the effective date hereof (September 30,
2002) until December 31, 2002, shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   The licensing period relative to the annual license fee shall commence
on January 1 of each year and shall expire on December 31 following the date of
issuance. (Ord. 02-2201, 7-15-2002)
3-9-6: PROHIBITION ON SALES OR DISTRIBUTION:
   A.   Age Restriction: It shall be unlawful for any person, including any
licensee or retailer, to sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco
products to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Proof Of Identification: Each licensee shall request and examine the
photographic identification of any person purchasing tobacco products so as to
verify that the purchaser is twenty one (21) years of age or older.
   C.   Required Signs: Signs informing the public of the age restrictions
provided for herein shall be posted by every licensee at every display of
tobacco products which offers tobacco products for sale or which is visible by
any customer. Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW
The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background, said
letters to be at least one inch (1") high.
   D.   Sales In Sealed Packages Only: No retailer may break or otherwise open
any cigarette or smokeless tobacco package to sell or distribute individual
cigarettes or a number of unpackaged cigarettes that is smaller than the
minimum cigarette package size of twenty (20) cigarettes or any quantity of
cigarette tobacco or smokeless tobacco that is smaller than the smallest
package distributed by the manufacturer for individual consumer use.
   E.   Vending Machines Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person,
licensee or retailer to sell or offer for sale, give away, deliver or to keep
with the intention of selling, giving away or delivering tobacco products by
use of a vending machine.
   F.   Prohibited Locations: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell,
offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products within five hundred feet
(500') of any school, childcare facility or other building or location used for
educational or recreational programs for persons under the age of twenty one
(21) years. The distance requirement in this subsection shall be measured from
the center of the person's business location to the center of: 1) the school
building, educational or recreational building or childcare facility; or 2) the
lot used or maintained for educational or recreational programs. This
prohibition shall not apply to those businesses engaged in the retail sale of
tobacco products at a location that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter that were in existence prior to the passage of this chapter. This
exemption shall apply to any new owner at the same location providing the same
service.
   G.   Distribution Of Tobacco Product Samples Prohibited: No person shall
give away, barter, exchange, distribute or in any way dispense free of charge
or at nominal cost any tobacco product samples, and/or any coupon redeemable
for any tobacco products, on any public street, alley, right-of-way, sidewalk,
or in any public park, playground, or other property owned by the Village, any
school district, library district or park district, including, without
limitation, areas open to the public in any publicly owned or operated building
or at any place located within five hundred feet (500') of the lot line of any
building or other location used primarily as a school, childcare facility, or
for the education or recreation of persons under twenty one (21) years of age.
(Ord. 19-2958, 6-24-2019)
3-9-7: MINIMUM AGE TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ or permit
any person under twenty one (21) years of age to sell tobacco products in any
licensed premises. (Ord. 19-2958, 6-24-2019)
3-9-8: PURCHASE OR POSSESSION BY PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Purchase Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to purchase tobacco products, or to misrepresent their
identity or age, or to use any false or altered identification for the purpose
of purchasing tobacco products.
   B.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to possess any tobacco products; provided that the
possession by a person under the age of twenty one (21) years under the direct
supervision of the parent or guardian of such person in the privacy of the
parent's or guardian's home shall not be prohibited.
   C.   Penalties: The regulations, fines and penalties set forth in title 6,
chapter 5, "Minors", of this Code shall apply to any person under the age of
twenty one (21) charged with possession or the purchase of tobacco products.
(Ord. 19-2958, 6-24-2019)
3-9-9: RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of title 6, chapter 5,
"Minors", of this Code by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee, and such licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such
act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally. (Ord. 02-
2201, 7-15-2002)
3-9-10: ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Duties Of Code Enforcement Department:
      1.   The Code Enforcement Department, acting in conjunction with the
Village Manager and the Department of Law Enforcement Services, shall be
responsible for the enforcement and administration of this chapter.
      2.   The Code Enforcement Department and the Department of Law
Enforcement Services shall conduct random, unannounced inspections at locations
where tobacco products are sold to ensure compliance with this chapter.
      3.   The Code Enforcement Department shall promulgate reasonable rules
and regulations consistent with this chapter to provide for the enforcement and
administration of this chapter and the provisions of title 6, chapter 5,
"Minors", of this Code. The rules and regulations shall establish procedures
for administrative action against those who violate the chapter and for a
method of administrative adjudication of the violation or violations.
      4.   Any rules or regulations promulgated under the chapter shall be
filed in the Code Enforcement Department's principal office and with the
Village Clerk. A copy of said rules and regulations shall be made available for
public inspection upon request and payment of a reasonable fee as determined by
the Code Enforcement Department. (Ord. 02-2201, 7-15-2002)
3-9-11: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINES; COSTS:
   A.   Violations: The Village Manager may suspend or revoke any license
issued under the provisions of this chapter, if he determines that the licensee
has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of title
6, chapter 5, "Minors", of this Code. In lieu of suspension or revocation of a
license or in addition to such penalties, the Village Manager may levy a fine
on the licensee. The fine imposed shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation. Each day on which a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation. Penalties imposed shall include, but do not
have to be limited to, the following:
      1.   For a first violation, an administrative penalty of not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00);
      2.   For a second violation, occurring after a final determination of
liability for a first violation, and within a twelve (12) month period of the
first violation, an administrative penalty of not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and a suspension of the license of the retail tobacco dealer
for thirty (30) days; and
      3.   For a third violation, occurring after a final determination of
liability for a second violation and within a twelve (12) month period of the
second violation, an administrative penalty of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) and a revocation of the license of the retail tobacco dealer for one
year.
   B.   Public Hearing: No such license shall be suspended or revoked and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Village Manager
conducted only after seven (7) days' prior written notice has been served on
the licensee. The notice shall advise the licensee of his or her opportunity to
appear and defend against the charges contained in such notice. The calculation
of the seven (7) day notice period shall begin the day following delivery by
certified mail or by personal service.
   C.   Written Order: The Village Manager shall within seven (7) days after
such hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should be
revoked or suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason
for such determination in a written order and further state the amount of the
fine, the period of suspension or that the license has been revoked and serve a
copy of such order within seven (7) days upon the licensee.
   D.   Costs Of Hearing: Any licensee determined by the Village Manager to
have violated any of the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of title
6, chapter 5, "Minors", of this Code shall pay to the Village the costs of the
hearing before the Village Manager on such violation. The Village Manager shall
determine the costs incurred by the Village for said hearing, including, but
not limited to: court reporter fees, the costs of the transcripts or records,
attorney fees, the cost of preparing and mailing notices and orders, any and
all additional fines imposed and all other miscellaneous expenses incurred by
the Village or such lesser sum as the Village Manager may allow.
   E.   Failure To Pay: The licensee shall pay said costs to the Village within
thirty (30) days of notification of the costs by the Village Manager. Failure
to pay said costs within thirty (30) days of notification is a violation of
this chapter and may be cause of license suspension or revocation, or the levy
of a fine.
   F.   Waiting Period: Any retailer whose license is revoked for violating any
of the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of title 6, chapter 5,
"Minors", of this Code shall be prohibited from applying for a tobacco
retailer's license for a one year period.
   G.   File For Injunction: In addition to imposing the fines and other
penalties provided by this chapter, the Code Enforcement Department or Village
Manager may file legal or administrative action against any licensee for an
injunction requiring compliance with the provisions of this chapter or for such
order as the court may deem necessary or appropriate to secure such compliance.
   H.   Judicial Review: A person may seek a writ of certiorari from the
Chancery Division of the Circuit Court of Cook County according to applicable
law, appealing any final determination of liability or decision of the Code
Enforcement Department or Village Manager under this chapter. (Ord. 02-2201, 7-
15-2002)
3-9-12: USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION:
   A.   When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license
shall be granted to said licensee for the period of one year thereafter for the
conduct of the business of selling "tobacco products", as defined in section
3-9-2 of this chapter, within the Village. (Ord. 02-2201, 7-15-2002)
3-9-13: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect as of September 30, 2002. (Ord.
02-2201, 7-15-2002)
CHAPTER 10
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS, RELATED PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
3-10-3: PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
3-10-4: Applicable Principles
3-10-5: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-10-6: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-10-7: Late Fees/Payments
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service;
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges;
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment;
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges;
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges;
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments;
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement;
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition;
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business; and
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi);
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service;
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders;
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service;
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes;
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers; and
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service
areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 07-2464, 11-19-2007)
3-10-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The Village: The holder shall notify the village at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service in the village.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt
of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting
this chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-401(b)(6) to the village.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 07-2464, 11-19-2007)
3-10-3: PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   PEG Fee Imposed: A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the village in addition to
the fee imposed pursuant to subsection
3-10-2B of this chapter.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be one percent (1%) of the holder's gross revenues or, if greater, the
percentage of gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the village
or its designee for PEG access support in the village.
   C.   Payment: The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the village
or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG access. The holder's
liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date set forth
in subsection
3-10-2D of this chapter.
   D.   Payment Due: The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar
quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation
of the fee.
   E.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary
payments for PEG access that would have been due during the remaining term of
the agreement had it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments
made by an incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be
credited against the fees that that operator owes under subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 07-2464, 11-19-2007)
3-10-4: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 07-2464, 11-19-2007)
3-10-5: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of any
validly imposed 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 07-2464, 11-19-2007)
3-10-6: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the village's submission of an invoice for
the sum. (Ord. 07-2464, 11-19-2007)
3-10-7: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this village pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of
rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 07-2464, 11-19-
2007)
CHAPTER 11
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
SECTION:
3-11-1: Adoption
3-11-2: Amendments
3-11-3: Enforcement
3-11-4: Penalties
3-11-5: Customer Credits
3-11-1: ADOPTION:
The regulations of the cable and video customer protection law, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/70-501, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the cable or video providers offering services within the
village's boundaries. (Ord. 07-2465, 11-19-2007)
3-11-2: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection law that becomes
effective after the effective date of this section shall be incorporated into
this section by reference and shall be applicable to cable or video providers
offering services within the village boundaries. However, any amendment that
makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 07-2465, 11-19-2007)
3-11-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The village does hereby, pursuant to law, declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video
protection law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
village. (Ord. 07-2465, 11-19-2007)
3-11-4: PENALTIES:
The village, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(r)(1), does
hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable
and video protection law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material breach per
customer. In this regard:
   A.   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   B.   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach.
   C.   A material breach, for the purposes of assuming penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after receipt of the notice as provided for
in subsection B of this section. (Ord. 07-2465, 11-19-2007)
3-11-5: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations as
set forth in the cable and video customer protection law. Those credits shall
be as provided for in the provisions of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501
(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for the next billing
cycle following the violation or following the discovery of the violation. The
cable or video provider is responsible for providing the credits and the
customer is under no obligation to request the credit. (Ord. 07-2465, 11-19-
2007)
CHAPTER 12
CHARITABLE GAMES, RAFFLES, BINGO AND OTHER GAMES OF CHANCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Adoption
3-12-2: Charitable Games
3-12-3: Raffles
3-12-4: Bingo
3-12-5: Pull-Tabs And Jar Games
3-12-6: Amendments
3-12-1: ADOPTION:
The regulations of the charitable games act 1 , the Illinois raffles act 2 ,
the bingo license and tax act 3 , and the Illinois pull tabs and jar games act
4 , as amended, are adopted herein by reference into this chapter and made
applicable to the licensed organizations providing charitable gaming, bingo,
raffle or other chance games within the village's boundaries or outside of the
village’s boundaries where expressly allowed by state law and authorized by the
corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 11-2623, 3-28-2011; amd. Ord. 20-
3013, 9-14-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
2 2. 230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
3 3. 230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
4 4. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
3-12-2: CHARITABLE GAMES:
   A.   Incorporation: This section incorporates herein by reference the
charitable games act 1  (the "act"), as amended.
   B.   Organizations To Be Licensed; Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: All
organizations desiring to be licensed must be licensed by the Illinois
department of revenue and follow the procedures of the act. All licensees must
file a copy of the license with the director of law enforcement services of the
village police department prior to conducting any charitable games.
      1.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Chapter.
   C.   Compliance With Codes: All charitable games must be conducted in
accordance with the village building and fire code requirements.
   D.   Location Of Games: The owner of any premises wishing to hold charitable
games must obtain a providers' license, pursuant to section 5 of the act.
However, if the premises are owned by the licensed organization, the
organization will only need to obtain a providers' license if it wishes to
allow other organizations to conduct charitable games on its premises, pursuant
to section 6 of the act.
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person who conducts or knowingly participates in an unlicensed
charitable game commits the offense of gambling in violation of section 28-1 of
the criminal code of 1961, as amended. Any person who violates any provision of
this act, or any person who fails to file a charitable games return or who
files a fraudulent return or application under this act, or any person who
wilfully violates any rule or regulation of the department for the
administration and enforcement of this act, or any officer or agent of an
organization licensed under this act who signs a fraudulent return or
application filed on behalf of such an organization, is guilty of a class A
misdemeanor. Any second or subsequent violation of this act constitutes a class
4 felony.
      2.   Any organization that illegally conducts charitable games, in
addition to other penalties provided for in this act, shall be subject to a
civil penalty equal to the amount of gross proceeds derived from those
unlicensed games, as well as confiscation and forfeiture of all charitable
games equipment used in the conduct of those unlicensed games.
      3.   Any organization licensed to conduct charitable games that allows
any form of illegal gambling to be conducted on the premises where charitable
games are being conducted, in addition to other penalties provided for in this
act, shall be subject to a civil penalty equal to the amount of gross proceeds
derived on that day from charitable games and any illegal game that may have
been conducted, as well as confiscation and forfeiture of all charitable games
equipment used in the conduct of any unlicensed or illegal games.
      4.   Any person who violates any provision of this act or knowingly
violates any rule of the department for the administration of this act, in
addition to other penalties provided, shall be subject to a civil penalty not
to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each separate violation.
      5.   No person shall sell, lease or distribute for compensation within
this state, or possess with intent to sell, lease or distribute for
compensation within this state, any chips, representations of money, wheels, or
any devices or equipment designed for use or used in the play of charitable
games without first having obtained a license to do so from the department of
revenue. Any person that knowingly violates this subsection E5 is guilty of a
class A misdemeanor, the fine for which shall not exceed fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00). (Ord. 11-2623, 3-28-2011; amd. Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022)
 
Notes
1 5. 230 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
3-12-3: RAFFLES:
   A.   Incorporation: This section incorporates herein by reference the
Illinois raffles act 1  ("the act"), as amended.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this code the terms defined in this
section have the meanings given them.
BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses who
have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and civic
interests of a community.
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
KEY LOCATION: The physical location within the village’s corporate boundaries
where the raffle drawing is conducted.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in section 28-2(b) of the "criminal code
of 1961", conducted by an organization licensed under this act, in which:
      1.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
      2.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
SPONSORING ORGANIZATION: One of the eligible organizations defined in the Act
that may receive a village-approved raffle license and consisting of:
   1.   Non-profit organizations or institutions;
   2.   Charitable organizations or institutions;
   3.   Educational organizations or institutions;
   4.   Religious congregations, societies and organizations;
   5.   Fraternal organizations; and
   6.   Veterans organizations or associations.
THIRD-PARTY RAFFLE OPERATOR/VENDOR: A person, company, corporation or
organization who contracts with and acts at the direction of and under the
supervision of the sponsoring organization, to provide bona fide services to
the sponsoring organization in connection with the operation of a raffle and
may receive reasonable compensation from the sponsoring organization for such
services as provided for in the Illinois Raffles Act, 230 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 15/4(a)(2). Such services include the following:
   1.   Advertising, marketing and promotion;
   2.   Legal;
   3.   Procurement of goods, prizes, wares and merchandise for the purpose of
operating the raffle;
   4.   Rent, if the premises upon which the raffle will be held is rented;
   5.   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping;
   6.   Website hosting;
   7.   Mailing and delivery;
   8.   Banking and payment processing; and
   9.   Other services relating to the operation of the raffle.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
   C.   Licensing: Each event at which a raffle or raffles are to be conducted
shall have a separate raffle license issued by the village.
      1.   Limitations: The following limitations apply to raffles conducted
within the village:
         a.   The aggregate retail value of all jackpots or roll-over jackpots,
prizes or merchandise awarded by a licensee in a single raffle shall not
exceed: Two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00). For any raffle that has the
potential for jackpots or roll-over jackpots (e.g., Queen of Hearts raffles) to
exceed maximum aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded
restriction, the applicant or the third-party raffle operator/vendor shall
award only a jackpot or jackpots or prizes or merchandise that meets the above
dollar amount restriction. The applicant or the third-party raffle operator/
vendor shall not sell raffle chances in an amount that would cause the jackpot
or roll-over jackpot or prizes or merchandise to exceed the above dollar amount
restriction.
         b.   The maximum retail value of each jackpot or roll-over jackpot or
prize awarded by a licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed: One hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00). For any raffle that has the potential for
jackpots or roll-over jackpots (e.g., Queen of Hearts raffles) to exceed the
maximum retail value of each jackpot, roll-over jackpot or prize awarded
restriction, the applicant or the third-party raffle operator/vendor shall
award only a jackpot, a roll-over jackpot or a prize that meets the above
dollar amount restriction. The applicant or the third-party raffle operator/
vendor shall not sell raffle chances in an amount that would cause the jackpot
or roll-over jackpot or prize to exceed the maximum dollar amount restriction.
         c.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold shall not exceed: Five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         d.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold for any event shall not exceed: One hundred eighty (180) days.
         e.   The raffle drawing shall be conducted at a designated key
location(s), as identified in the application and approved by the village. The
key location shall be located within the village corporate boundaries.
      2.   License Fees: The raffle license fee for each event at which a
raffle or raffles are to be conducted shall be: See section
3-3-2 of this title. If there are multiple events to be conducted in one
specified period of time not to exceed one year, then one license may be issued
to cover multiple events, but the applicant shall be required to pay the above
license fee for each event conducted during the applicable time period. The
corporate authorities of the village may waive raffle license fee requirement
by including a waiver in the license issued to an organization under this
section, provided that a license containing such waiver shall be granted only
by unanimous vote of the corporate authorities of the village.
      3.   Duration Of License; Revocation: Licenses issued pursuant to this
section shall be valid for one raffle or for a specified number of raffles to
be conducted during a specified period not to exceed one year and may be
suspended or revoked for any violation of this section. The village shall act
on a license application within thirty (30) days from the date of application.
      4.   Issuance; Eligibility: Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide
religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans'
organizations that operate without profit to their members and which have been
in existence continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately before
making application for a license and which have had during that entire five (5)
year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives, or
to a nonprofit fundraising organization that the licensing authority determines
is organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an
identified individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial
hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident or disaster.
   D.   Application; Restrictions: Any license issued by the village is subject
to the following application requirements and restrictions:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct raffles or chances
without having first obtained a village license therefor pursuant to this
section.
      2.   The license and application completed by the applicant for a license
shall specify the method in which raffle chances will be sold (e.g. paper
tickets, online chances, etc.), the area or areas in which raffle chances will
be sold or issued (e.g. within the village, within Cook County, Illinois, or
throughout the State of Illinois), the time period during which raffle chances
will be sold or issued, the time of determination of winning chances and the
key location or key locations within the village’s corporate boundaries at
which winning chances will be determined. Raffle chances shall not be sold or
issued to persons, companies, organizations or any other entities outside of
the State of Illinois or outside of the jurisdiction authorized within the
village license.
      3.   The application completed by the applicant shall contain a sworn
statement attesting to the not for profit character of the prospective licensee
organization, signed by the presiding officer and the secretary of that
organization.
      4.   If the applicant intends to contract with a third-party raffle
operator/vendor pursuant to division F2 of this section, the pertinent portions
of the application shall be completed and also signed by the third-party raffle
operator/vendor, which contains information regarding the role and activities
of the third-party raffle operator/vendor relative to the raffle.
      5.   The application shall also contain sworn statements to be signed by
the presiding officer and the secretary of the applicant and the presiding
officer and the secretary of the third-party raffle operator/vendor (if any)
that certify that the applicant and the third-party raffle operator/vendor
agree to comply with all applicable statutes, ordinances, village code
provisions and regulations regarding the conduct of raffles.
      6.   The application completed by the applicant and the third-party
operator/vendor (if any) shall be on a form prepared by the village in
accordance with this section.
      7.   A license authorizes the licensee to conduct only "raffles" as
defined in this section.
   E.   Persons Ineligible: The following are ineligible for any license under
this section:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection E1,
E2 or E3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in
which such a person is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection E1, E2 or
E3 of this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not;
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection E1, E2 or
E3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle
as defined in this act.
   F.   Conduct Of Raffles: The conducting of raffles is subject to the
following restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle.
      4.   A licensee may rent any premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this section.
      5.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
      6.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in
the conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18)
years may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only
when accompanied by his parent or guardian.
      7.   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance or chances on a
raffle are determined, the lessor shall not be criminally liable if the person
who uses the premises for the determining of winning chances does not hold a
license issued by the governing body of any county or municipality under the
provisions of this section.
   G.   Raffle Manager; Bond: All operation of and the conduct of raffles, as
provided for under this section, shall be under the supervision of a single
manager designated by the licensed organization. The manager shall give a
fidelity bond in the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or two (2)
times the aggregate value of prizes, whichever is greater, in favor of the
licensed organization conditioned upon his honesty in the performance of his
duties. The bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the
village not less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation. The corporate
authorities of the village may waive or adjust the dollar value of the bond
requirement by including a waiver or adjustment provision in the license issued
to an organization under this section, provided that a license containing such
waiver or adjustment provision shall be granted only by unanimous vote of the
corporate authorities of the village.
   H.   Records:
      1.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
      2.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the department of revenue of the state
of Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
      3.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to the village, its
gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of
net proceeds itemized as required in this section.
      4.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
   I.   Violation: Violation of any provision of this section is a class C
misdemeanor.
   J.   Gambling Not Authorized: Nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize the conducting or operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise,
activity or device other than raffles as provided for herein. (Ord. 11-2623, 3-
28-2011; amd. Ord. 20-3013, 9-14-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
3-12-4: BINGO:
   A.   Incorporation: The village incorporates herein by reference the bingo
license and tax act 1  (the "act"), as amended.
   B.   Persons Conducting Bingo: All persons wishing to conduct bingo must
comply with the act and obtain a license from the Illinois department of
revenue, pursuant to the act. However, senior citizen centers and the village
may conduct bingo without a license or fee, pursuant to section 1.3(9) of the
act. All licensees must file a copy of the license with the director of law
enforcement services of the village police department prior to conducting any
bingo games.
   C.   Premises Allowing Bingo; Code Compliance: The owner of any premises who
desires to permit bingo on its premises must obtain a providers' license
pursuant to section 1.4 of the act, except that the village need not obtain a
providers' license. All bingo games must be conducted in accordance with the
village building and fire code requirements.
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person who conducts or knowingly participates in an unlicensed
bingo game commits the offense of gambling in violation of section 28-1 of the
criminal code of 1961, as amended. Any person who violates any other provision
of this act, or any person who knowingly fails to file a bingo return or who
knowingly files a fraudulent application or return under this act, or any
person who wilfully violates any rule or regulation of the department for the
administration and enforcement of this act, or any officer or agent of an
organization licensed under this act who signs a fraudulent application or
return filed on behalf of such an organization, is guilty of a class A
misdemeanor.
      2.   Any organization that illegally conducts bingo, in addition to other
penalties provided for in this act, shall be subject to a civil penalty equal
to the gross proceeds derived from those unlicensed games, as well as
confiscation and forfeiture of all bingo equipment used in the conduct of those
unlicensed games.
      3.   Any organization licensed to conduct bingo which allows any form of
illegal gambling to be conducted on the premises where bingo is being
conducted, in addition to other penalties provided for in this act, shall be
subject to a civil penalty equal to the amount of gross proceeds derived on
that day from bingo and any illegal game that may have been conducted, as well
as confiscation and forfeiture of all bingo equipment used in the conduct of
any unlicensed or illegal games.
      4.   Any person or organization, in addition to other penalties provided
for in this act, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for any of the following violations:
         a.   Providing premises for the conduct of bingo without first
obtaining a license or a special permit to do so.
         b.   Allowing unlicensed organizations to conduct bingo on its
premises.
         c.   Allowing any form of illegal gambling to be conducted in the
premises where bingo is being conducted. (Ord. 11-2623, 3-28-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
3-12-5: PULL-TABS AND JAR GAMES:
   A.   Incorporation: The village incorporates and adopts the Illinois pull
tabs and jar games act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 20/1 et seq. (the
"act").
   B.   Organizations To Be Licensed: All organizations desiring to be licensed
must be licensed by the Illinois department of revenue and follow the
procedures of the act. All licensees must file a copy of the license with the
director of law enforcement services of the village police department prior to
conducting any pull-tabs and jar games.
   C.   Compliance With Codes: All charitable games must be conducted in
accordance with the village building and fire code requirements.
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person who conducts or knowingly participates in an unlicensed
pull-tabs and jar game commits the offense of gambling in violation of section
28-1 of the criminal code of 1961, as amended. Any person who violates any
other provision of this act, or any person who knowingly fails to file a pull-
tabs and jar games return or who knowingly files a fraudulent application or
return under this act, or any person who wilfully violates any rule or
regulation of the department for the administration and enforcement of this
act, or any officer or agent of an organization licensed under this act who
signs a fraudulent application or return filed on behalf of such an
organization, is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.
      2.   Any organization that illegally conducts pull-tabs or jar games, in
addition to other penalties provided for in this act, shall be subject to a
civil penalty equal to the amount of gross proceeds derived from those
unlicensed games, as well as confiscation and forfeiture of all pull-tabs and
jar games equipment used in the conduct of those unlicensed games.
      3.   Any organization licensed to conduct pull-tabs and jar games which
allows any form of illegal gambling to be conducted on the premises where pull-
tabs and jar games are being conducted, in addition to other penalties provided
for in this act, shall be subject to a civil penalty equal to the amount of
gross proceeds derived on that day from pull-tabs and jar games and any illegal
game that may have been conducted, as well as confiscation and forfeiture of
all pull-tabs and jar games equipment used in the conduct of any unlicensed or
illegal games. (Ord. 11-2623, 3-28-2011)
3-12-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the charitable games, raffles, bingo, and Illinois pull tabs
and jar games acts 1  that becomes effective after the effective date of this
section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and shall be
applicable to any applicant or licensee. However, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this section by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the village. (Ord. 11-2623, 3-28-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 15/1 – 30/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 13
REGULATION OF COMMERCIAL FILMING, PHOTOGRAPHY AND TAPING
SECTION:
3-13-1: Adoption
3-13-2: Definitions
3-13-3: Compliance With General Licensing Procedures And Regulations;
Eligibility If Debt Owed To Village
3-13-4: Administrative Procedures For Commercial Filming, Photography And
Taping
3-13-5: Reimbursement Of Village Administrative Costs; Deposit
3-13-6: Enforcement; Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Fines And Costs
3-13-7: Severability
3-13-1: ADOPTION:
The statutory police powers and business regulation statutes as set forth in
the Illinois Municipal Code, as amended, including but not limited to 65 ILCS
5/11-5-2 (disturbances) and 11-5-8 (portable dwelling houses), 11-33-1
(electric contractors), 11-37-2 (electrical equipment inspections), 11-40-1
(vehicle and vehicle load regulations), 11-42 (powers over certain businesses),
including 11-42-1 and 11-42-5 (theatricals, exhibitions and amusements), 11-54-
1 (amusements), 11-60-1 (business licenses) and 11-80 (street and right-of-way
regulations), are adopted herein by reference into this Chapter and are the
authority for the Village's adoption and enforcement of the commercial filming,
photography and taping regulations and the related business license fees, which
are set forth in this Chapter 13 and are also contained in the Village of
Western Springs Administrative Procedures for Commercial Filming, Photography
and Taping. (Ord. 11-2646, 9-26-2011; amd. Ord. 22-3071, 3-21-2022)
3-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definition provision set forth at Section
3-1-2 (DEFINITIONS) of this Code and the definitions contained in the Village
of Western Springs Administrative Procedures for Commercial Filming,
Photography and Taping are incorporated herein by reference and applicable to
the regulations of this Chapter. If a term is not specifically defined in this
Code or in the Administrative Procedures, then the commonly accepted definition
of such term will be used to interpret and enforce this Chapter and the
Administrative Procedures for Commercial Filming, Photography and Taping. (Ord.
11-2646, 9-26-2011; amd. Ord. 22-3071, 3-21-2022)
3-13-3: COMPLIANCE WITH GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS;
ELIGIBILITY IF DEBT OWED TO VILLAGE:
Any person who desires to perform commercial filming, photography or taping
within the village shall be required to obtain a business license issued by the
village manager, pay the required village reimbursement deposit fee set forth
in section
3-3-2 of this title, and comply with the applicable provisions of this title,
including, but not limited to, the regulations set forth in the “Administrative
Procedures For Commercial Filming, Photography And Taping”, as amended, the
other applicable provisions of this code, the license conditions and
restrictions placed on the licensee by the village manager and all other
applicable state, county and federal laws and regulations.
   A.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Chapter. (Ord. 11-2646, 9-26-
2011; amd. Ord. 22-3071, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022)
3-13-4: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR COMMERCIAL FILMING, PHOTOGRAPHY AND
TAPING:
The village board has adopted a set of regulations set forth in a document
entitled "Administrative Procedures For Commercial Filming, Photography And
Taping". A copy of the current administrative procedures can be obtained at the
village clerk's office. The administrative procedures may be amended from time
to time upon approval of a resolution or motion approved by the village board.
(Ord. 11-2646, 9-26-2011; amd. Ord. 22-3071, 3-21-2022)
3-13-5: REIMBURSEMENT OF VILLAGE ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS; DEPOSIT:
The village manager, in his/her discretion, reserves the right to require that
special municipal services be provided to the licensee relative to the
commercial filming, photography or taping activities, such as police, fire and
public works personnel and services and other administrative staff services
that are necessary to: a) facilitate the film production activities, b) protect
the health, welfare and safety of the public, and those individuals who
participate in the commercial filming, photography or taping activities, or c)
clean up and dispose of any debris, litter or waste caused by the licensee's
activities.
The village manager, in his/her discretion, may require an initial
reimbursement deposit that exceeds the standard deposit contained in section
3-3-2 of this title in the event that the manager decides that the total cost
of the provision of special municipal services will likely exceed the amount of
the standard deposit. The licensee shall pay the reimbursement deposit in
accordance with the village manager's direction and shall be required to
promptly replenish the deposit with additional monies, as directed by the
village manager, if the amount of the deposit is deemed to be insufficient to
pay for the incurred and anticipated special municipal services, or if the
village has drawn upon the deposit to pay incurred costs. The licensee shall
pay the costs, charges and fees for the special municipal services in
accordance with the schedule of fees set forth in the administrative
procedures, or, if not specifically listed in the administrative procedures,
then the charge or fee will be based on the actual out of pocket costs incurred
by the village. The village will provide to the licensee, upon request or at
the time the reimbursement deposit is closed out by the village, a written
accounting of the use of the reimbursement deposit funds. The licensee shall
pay in full, within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt thereof, any invoice
for the costs, charges and fees incurred that have not been satisfied by the
village using the reimbursement deposit. (Ord. 11-2646, 9-26-2011; amd. Ord.
22-3071, 3-21-2022)
3-13-6: ENFORCEMENT; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINES AND COSTS:
A.   Violations: The village manager or his/her designee, upon delivery of
written notice or verbal notice, may suspend or revoke any license issued under
the provisions of this chapter, if he determines that suspension or revocation
is needed to protect the public safety or that the licensee has violated any of
the provisions of this chapter or this code or the regulations contained in the
"Administrative Procedures For Commercial Filming, Photography And Taping", as
amended, or any other applicable state, county and federal laws and
regulations. In lieu of suspension or revocation of a license or in addition to
such penalties, the village manager, in his/her sole discretion, may levy a
fine on the licensee. The fine imposed shall not exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day on which a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation.
   B.   Hearing; Decision: If a license is suspended or revoked or a licensee
is fined without a prior hearing, upon the written request of the licensee, the
village manager shall conduct a hearing on the matter and provide the licensee
with an opportunity to be heard within seventy two (72) hours after the request
for hearing on the suspension, revocation or fine is received or such other
date as mutually agreed upon by the parties. The village's notice shall advise
the licensee of his or her opportunity to appear and defend against the charges
contained in such notice. All notices shall be served via delivery by e-mail,
certified mail or by personal service. Within forty eight (48) hours of
conclusion of the hearing, the village manager shall issue a written decision
relative to the revocation, suspension and/or fine that states the reasons for
such determination and further states the amount of the fine, the period of
suspension (if any) or that the license has been revoked or reinstated. A copy
of the decision shall be promptly served upon the licensee.
   C.   Costs Of Hearing: Any licensee determined by the village manager to
have violated any of the provisions of this chapter or the provisions of this
code shall pay to the village the costs of the hearing before the village
manager on such violation. The village manager shall determine the costs
incurred by the village for said hearing, including, but not limited to: court
reporter fees, the costs of the transcripts or records, attorney fees, the cost
of preparing and mailing notices and orders, any and all additional fines
imposed and all other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the village or such
lesser sum as the village manager may allow.
   D.   Failure To Pay Fine; File For Injunction; Judicial Review: The
provisions of subsections
3-9-11E, G and H of this title are incorporated herein by reference and are
applicable to the regulations of this chapter. (Ord. 11-2646, 9-26-2011; amd.
Ord. 22-3071, 3-21-2022)
3-13-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this Chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 22-3071, 3-21-2022)
CHAPTER 14
MINIMUM WAGE LAW AND PAID SICK LEAVE LAW
SECTION:
3-14-1: Payment Of Minimum Hourly Wages And Paid Sick Leave
3-14-1: PAYMENT OF MINIMUM HOURLY WAGES AND PAID SICK LEAVE:
   A.   Employers located within the Village shall comply with all applicable
Federal, State and/or County laws and regulations, as such laws and regulations
may exist from time to time, with regard to both the payment of minimum hourly
wages and paid sick leave. Employee eligibility for paid sick leave and minimum
hourly wages shall be in compliance with all applicable Federal, State and/or
County laws and regulations, as such laws and regulations may exist from time
to time.
   B.   By the adoption of this chapter on May 7, 2018, the Village opts into
the Cook County minimum wage benefits ordinance established by Cook County
ordinance number 16-5768 (An Ordinance Creating a Minimum Wage in Cook County)
requiring a minimum wage to be paid to eligible employees by covered employers
in Cook County in accordance with the provisions of said ordinance, and further
opts into the Cook County sick leave benefits ordinance established by Cook
County ordinance number 16-4229 requiring unpaid sick leave to be paid to
eligible employees by covered employers in Cook County in accordance with the
provisions of said ordinance. The adoption of this chapter repeals those
portions of Village ordinance number 17-2891 that conflicts with Cook County
ordinance numbers 16-4229 and 16-5768 with regard to the payment of paid sick
leave or minimum hourly wages. Based on the repeal of Village ordinance number
17-2891, there shall be no retroactive application of the Cook County sick
leave benefits ordinance and the Cook County minimum wage benefits ordinance
established by Cook County ordinance numbers 16-4229 and 16-5768 requiring the
payment of a minimum wage and unpaid sick leave to eligible employees by
covered employers operating within the Village during the time period that the
Village opted out of the Cook County minimum wage benefits ordinance or the
Cook County sick leave benefits ordinance. Covered employers operating within
the Village shall be obligated to commence payment of minimum wages and unpaid
sick leave to eligible employees on Friday, May 18, 2018 in accordance with the
Cook County minimum wage benefits ordinance and the Cook County sick leave
benefits ordinance.
   C.   For the purposes of this section, the term "employee" means an
individual permitted to work for an employer regardless of the number of
persons the employer employs, and the term "employer" means any person
employing one or more employees, or seeking to employ one or more employees, if
the person has its principal place of business within the Village or does
business within the Village.
   D.   For the purposes of this section, the term "employer" does not mean:
      1.   The government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned by
the government of the United States;
      2.   An Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an Indian tribe;
      3.   The government of the State or any agency or department thereof; or
      4.   Any unit of government.
   E.   In the event that Cook County ordinance number 16-4229 and Cook County
ordinance number 16-5768, or any other related, superseding Cook County
ordinances, are repealed by Cook County or a court of final jurisdiction rules
that they are void or they are superseded by the enactment of a State-wide
Minimum Wage Law and Minimum Sick Leave Law, this chapter shall automatically
be repealed upon the effective date of the repealing law, the final court
ruling or the enactment of the State-wide Minimum Wage Law and Minimum Sick
Leave Law that supersedes Cook County ordinance number 16-4229 and Cook County
ordinance number 16-5768. (Ord. 18-2918, 5-7-2018, eff. 5-18-2018)
TITLE 4
LIQUOR CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
SECTION:
4-1-1: Title
4-1-2: Purpose
4-1-3: Definitions
4-1-4: Exceptions To Regulations
4-1-5: Local Liquor Control Commissioner Designated; Powers And Duties
4-1-6: Local Liquor Control Commission Creation; Powers And Duties
4-1-7: Village Manager As Chief Administrative Officer
4-1-8: Inspection Powers
4-1-9: Classifications Of Licenses
4-1-10: Limitation On Number Of Licenses
4-1-11: Initial Application Fee
4-1-12: License Term; License Fees; License For Part Of Year; Payment
4-1-13: Hours Of Operation
4-1-14: License Required For Sale; Consumption; Possession; Eligibility If Debt
Owed To Village
4-1-15: Persons Ineligible For License
4-1-16: Application For License To Sell Alcoholic Liquor
4-1-17: Investigation Of Applicant; Director Of Law Enforcement
4-1-18: Examination Of Applicant; Local Liquor Control Commissioner And
Commission
4-1-19: Issuance Of License; Contents; Time Limitation On Nonuse
4-1-20: Insurance Requirements
4-1-21: Change Of Location
4-1-22: Personal Nature Of License, Restrictions On Transfer; Refund
4-1-23: Change In Personnel Or Corporate Ownership
4-1-24: Posting Licenses And Warning Signs
4-1-25: Renewal Of License
4-1-26: Location Restriction
4-1-27: Standards For Licensed Premises; Inspections
4-1-28: Prohibited Transactions And Miscellaneous Regulations For Licensed
Premises
4-1-29: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
4-1-30: Purchase Or Acceptance Of Gift Of Alcoholic Liquor By Persons Of
Nonage; Proof Of Age And Identification Cards
4-1-31: Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Notice; Hearing; Fines
4-1-32: Penalties
4-1-1: TITLE:
The provisions of this chapter may be cited and referred to as the WESTERN
SPRINGS LIQUOR CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-2: PURPOSE:
It is the policy of the village to strictly limit the sale of alcoholic liquor
at retail, in accordance with the terms and conditions herein, to the sale by
"restaurants", as defined herein. It is not deemed conducive to the promotion
of this public policy to allow the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail for the
consumption on the premises where sold when such sales are the sole or primary
business to be conducted. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and terms used in
this chapter shall be construed according to these definitions:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
BAR/BAR AREA: The area of a restaurant set aside from the traditional
restaurant dining area for the preparation, service of and consumption of
alcoholic liquor. The bar/bar area includes any patron seating area and the
counter and the behind the counter storage area (coolers, a display mantle,
etc.) at which a bartender or other person authorized to sell or offer to sell
at retail any alcoholic liquor for purposes of consumption in the licensed
premises shall prepare and serve alcoholic liquor. Subject to the restrictions
imposed by the applicable liquor license class, the area of the restaurant
immediately adjacent to the counter may be devoted to a patron seating area for
the purpose of consumption of alcoholic liquor and food while waiting for other
seating within the restaurant or as a place to consume a meal. Alcoholic
liquor, without food, may be purchased by, served to and consumed by patrons
within the related bar/bar area, provided that the kitchen is open and food
service is being offered.
BAR, PATRON: A counter at which patrons of a restaurant may purchase alcoholic
liquor from a bartender or other person authorized to sell or offer to sell at
retail any alcoholic liquor for purposes of consumption in the licensed
premises. Alcoholic liquor, without food, may be purchased by, served to and
consumed by patrons at said counter or within the related bar/bar area,
provided that the kitchen is open and food service is being offered.
BAR, SERVICE: A counter at which a bartender or other person authorized to sell
or offer to sell at retail any alcoholic liquor for purposes of consumption in
the licensed premises, shall prepare alcoholic liquor for delivery to the
restaurant's waitstaff who shall serve said beverages to patrons in the
restaurant or within the related bar/bar area. No alcoholic liquor or food
shall be purchased by, served to or consumed by patrons at said counter.
BEER: A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation or concoction of barley, or
other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes among other things, beer,
ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
FAST FOOD RESTAURANT: Shall mean, but not be limited to, a restaurant that has:
patrons ordering food from a counter area or service window; patrons picking up
food or beverages from a counter area or service window; payment for food or
beverages at the time they are ordered; menus limited to food items requiring
minimal preparation; menus not offering a wide variety of foods from all major
food groups; food and beverages being available for carryout; the presence of
drive-up facilities; patrons not paying gratuities; restaurants not having
waiters or waitresses; food and beverages not being served on or in permanent
plates or containers and/or not being served with permanent utensils; not
having individual menus for each patron; patrons busing their own tables; and
trash containers being contained within the restaurant eating area. The
foregoing factors may be considered by the local liquor control commissioner in
determining whether a business is a "fast food restaurant". The determination
of the local liquor control commissioner shall be based upon the totality of
the circumstances. A "fast food restaurant" shall not be eligible for a liquor
license under this chapter.
LICENSED PREMISES: See definition of Premises/Licensed Premises.
LICENSEE: Any person receiving a license under this chapter.
LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION: When used herein or when mentioned in this
chapter as the "local commission", the reference is being made to the village's
liquor control commission.
LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER: When used herein or when mentioned in this
chapter as the "local commissioner", the reference is being made to the village
president.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or
other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
OUTDOOR CAFE: An outdoor dining area operated by a restaurant in accordance
with subsection
10-4-5F of the development control ordinance.
OUTDOOR LIQUOR CAFE: An outdoor dining area operated by a restaurant that
already maintains a village issued restaurant related liquor license and which
serves complete meals and beverages, including alcoholic beverages, to patrons
in the outdoor dining area. The outdoor cafe shall be located adjacent to the
building that contains the operating restaurant. The village board and the
local liquor control commissioner shall approve the operating rules, location
and layout of the outdoor cafe as part of the approval of an ordinance creating
the class H (outdoor liquor cafe) liquor license for issue to an applicant. In
addition, the operation of an outdoor cafe shall be subject to the applicable
provisions of this code, including the provisions of subsection
10-4-5F of the development control ordinance.
OWNER: Shall include all persons who are owners or lessees or otherwise who are
in control of any place where the sale of alcoholic liquor is carried on,
whether they be individuals, a partnership including all partners thereof, or a
corporation including the shareholders, directors and officers thereof.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership or corporation.
PREMISES/LICENSED PREMISES: The term premises or licensed premises, as used in
this chapter, shall refer only to the interior area of the building located at
the address indicated on the liquor license, and shall not include any area at
said address located outside of the building, such as, but not limited to,
sidewalks, parking areas, driveway areas, deck areas, patio areas or any other
outdoor areas that are part of the real property or the building identified by
the address on the liquor license, unless consumption of alcoholic liquor in a
particular outdoor area is specifically authorized by a particular liquor
license class.
RESTAURANT: Any public place which has a seating capacity of not less than
thirty (30) persons that is kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where complete meals are served, and where such meals are
actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. The term "complete
meals", as used in this chapter, shall mean the wide variety of foods from all
major food groups, including the availability of multiple, distinct types of
entrees, side dishes and desserts, that are customarily listed on lunch and/or
dinner menus. Food shall be served at tables by waitstaff only, except where a
patron bar is allowed in which case food may be served to the patrons seated at
a patron bar. The mere availability and service at any premises of hot dogs,
hamburgers, sandwiches, hors d'oeuvres, snacks such as ice cream, chips,
pretzels or other similar foods will not, standing alone, constitute the
service of complete meals and shall not be deemed sufficient to constitute such
premises as a restaurant within the meaning of this chapter. It is the intent
of this chapter that the sole business conducted on premises to be licensed as
restaurants under this chapter shall be the service of complete meals, as the
term is commonly understood, with such meals being listed in lunch and/or
dinner menus and as further defined herein. Without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, the service of complete meals does not include service of food
by luncheonettes, ice cream shops, pizza parlors, diners, pubs, coffee shops,
drive-ins, or self-service and/or carryout establishments. A "fast food
restaurant" is not a premises to be licensed as a restaurant hereunder.
RESTAURANT, CARRY-OUT: Shall mean, but not be limited to, a restaurant that
allows patrons to order food from a counter area or service window and/or
allows patrons to pick up food or beverages from a counter area or service
window for off-premise consumption. A carry-out restaurant shall not offer on-
premises consumption of food. This type of restaurant is further defined as any
public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as
a place where complete meals are actually and regularly served for off-premise
consumption, with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
with adequate staff to take orders, prepare food, and provide the food and
beverages, including alcoholic beverages, in a carry-out service operation
rather than a fast food service operation. The principal business of a "carry-
out restaurant" is the service of complete meals, and said service of such
meals shall constitute at least sixty percent (60%) of the gross income of the
establishment as distinguished from the principal business being the service of
food as a supplement to the service of alcoholic liquor. The restaurant design
shall reflect the character of an establishment that is operated to sell carry-
out food rather than an establishment set up to serve alcoholic liquor as its
principal activity. A "fast food restaurant" is not a premises to be licensed
as a carry-out restaurant hereunder. The local liquor control commissioner
shall be responsible for determining whether a business shall be classified as
a "carry-out restaurant" or a "fast food restaurant". The determination of the
local liquor control commissioner shall be based upon the totality of the
circumstances.
RESTAURANT, FULL SERVICE: A full service restaurant shall have a seating
capacity of not less than thirty (30) persons at which all patrons are seated
for their meals and are attended by a full service waitstaff. This type of
restaurant is further defined as any public place kept, used, maintained,
advertised, and held out to the public as a place where complete meals are
actually and regularly served, with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining
room equipment and with adequate staff to take orders, prepare food, and serve
the food and beverages, including alcoholic beverages, in a full service
operation rather than a fast food service operation. The principal business of
a "full service restaurant" is the service of complete meals, and said service
of such meals shall constitute at least sixty percent (60%) of the gross income
of the establishment as distinguished from the principal business being the
service of food as a supplement to the service of alcoholic liquor. The
restaurant design shall reflect the character of an establishment that is a
restaurant rather than an establishment set up to serve alcoholic liquor as its
principal activity. A "fast food restaurant" is not a premises to be licensed
as a full service restaurant hereunder.
RESTAURANT, LIMITED SERVICE: A limited service restaurant shall have a seating
capacity of not less than thirty (30) persons at which patrons may order
complete meals and beverages at a counter but where said food and beverages are
served by a waitstaff. This type of restaurant is further defined as any public
place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place
where complete meals are actually and regularly served, with adequate and
sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and with adequate staff to take
orders, prepare food, and serve the food and beverages, including alcoholic
beverages, in a limited service operation rather than a fast food service
operation. The principal business of a "limited service restaurant" is the
service of complete meals, and said service of such meals shall constitute at
least sixty percent (60%) of the gross income of the establishment as
distinguished from the principal business being the service of food as a
supplement to the service of alcoholic liquor. The restaurant design shall
reflect the character of an establishment that is a restaurant rather than an
establishment set up to serve alcoholic liquor as its principal activity. A
"fast food restaurant" is not a premises to be licensed as a limited service
restaurant hereunder.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
SELL AT RETAIL AND SALE AT RETAIL: The sale for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
SPECIAL EVENT RETAILER (NOT FOR PROFIT ORGANIZATION): A qualified educational,
fraternal, political, civic, religious, charitable or other not for profit
organization which sells or offers for sale alcoholic beverages only for
consumption at the location and on the dates designated by the special event
retail liquor license. A "qualified not for profit organization" means a
corporation that is recognized as a tax exempt entity as defined under the
applicable provisions of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or a
not for profit corporation as defined under the applicable provisions of the
general not for profit corporation act of 1986 1 , as amended. To the extent
the not for profit organization has received written certification from the
internal revenue service regarding its tax exempt status or has registered with
the Illinois attorney general as a charitable organization, that certification
or proof of registration shall be required to be filed with the village as part
of the liquor license application.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
SUPERMARKET: A full service retail establishment, with a total interior gross
floor area of not less than twenty five thousand (25,000) square feet, engaged
principally in the sale of canned goods; dry goods such as tea, sugar, flour,
cereals, and the like; beverages, such as milk, juices, soda pop and water;
fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh and prepared meats, fish, poultry; and
typical household goods, but not including any establishment commonly
understood to be a drugstore, or a pantry, or a convenience food mart and not
including any establishment also in the business of selling gasoline.
VILLAGE: The village of Western Springs, Illinois; a municipal corporation as
defined by state statutes.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by fermentation of the natural contents
of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages when
fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits" as above defined.
(Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999; amd. Ord. 01-2173, 9-24-2001; Ord. 02-2200, 5-20-
2002; Ord. 07-2468, 11-19-2007; Ord. 09-2531, 3-23-2009; Ord. 10-2579, 4-26-
2010; Ord. 10-2580, 4-26-2010; Ord. 20-3027, 12-21-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 105/101.01 et seq.
4-1-4: EXCEPTIONS TO REGULATIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the
manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in accordance with acts of congress
and regulations promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing
one-half of one percent (0.5%), or less, of alcohol by volume.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the possession and
transportation of alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the possessor, his
family and guests, or prevent the making of wine, cider or other alcoholic
liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the products thereof,
by simple fermentation and without distillation, if it is made solely for the
use of the maker, his family and his guests; and provided further that nothing
herein contained shall prevent any duly licensed practicing physician or
dentist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his
profession, or any hospital or other institution caring for sick and diseased
persons from possessing alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide
patients of such hospital or other institution; and provided further that any
drugstore employing a licensed pharmacist may possess and use alcoholic liquors
in the concoction of prescriptions for duly licensed physicians; and provided
further that the possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church shall not be prohibited by this
chapter. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-5: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER DESIGNATED; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The village president is the local liquor control commissioner who has the
duties that are imposed upon him/her and the powers and rights that are given
to him/her under this code and the statutes of the state with reference to the
sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
   A.   Powers And Duties: The local commissioner shall have the following
powers, functions and duties with respect to licenses and procedures under this
chapter:
      1.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause all local licenses issued to persons for premises within his/her
jurisdiction;
      2.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the liquor control act or any rules or regulations adopted by
him/her or by the state commission have been or are being violated, and at such
time to examine said premises of said licensee in connection therewith;
      3.   To notify the secretary of state where a club incorporated under the
general not for profit corporation act or a foreign corporation functioning as
a club in this State under a certificate of authority issued under that Act has
violated the Liquor Control Act by selling or offering for sale at retail
alcoholic liquors without a retailer's license;
      4.   To receive complaints from any citizen within his/her jurisdiction
that any of the provisions of the Liquor Control Act, or any rules or
regulations adopted pursuant hereto, have been or are being violated and to act
upon such complaints in the manner hereinafter provided;
      5.   To receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the
Village Treasurer;
      6.   To perform such other duties and functions including assistance with
the promulgation and enforcement of such procedures, regulations or rules as
he/she shall decide upon.
   B.   Keeping Of Records: The Village Manager shall keep a record of all
proceedings, transactions, communications and official acts. The Village
Manager shall be custodian of all records for the Commissioner and shall
perform such other duties as he may prescribe. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-6: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION CREATION; POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   A Local Liquor Control Commission having been created by the Local
Commissioner, shall be composed of three (3) members appointed by the Local
Commissioner, for the following terms: one member shall be appointed for a term
ending December 31, 1999; and two (2) members shall be appointed for a term
ending December 31, 2000. All appointments subsequent to December 31, 2000,
shall be for terms of three (3) years each. Members shall hold office for their
designated terms and until their successors have been appointed.
   B.   A chairman shall be designated by the Local Commissioner for the
purpose of presiding over meetings conducted at the direction of the Local
Commissioner. The Village Manager shall advise the Local Commission and assist
in the conduct of such meetings.
   C.   The Local Commission shall have and exercise the following duties as
directed by the Local Commissioner:
      1.   To review applications and the investigation of applicants for
liquor licenses, and to submit findings and recommendations to the Local
Commissioner setting forth its conclusions regarding such applications.
      2.   To conduct disciplinary hearings at the request of the Local
Commissioner and to submit findings and recommendations to the Local
Commissioner setting forth its conclusions respecting the existence and nature
of any violation of this chapter and the appropriate disciplinary action to be
taken, if any.
      3.   To keep written records of its meetings and proceedings which shall
be open for public inspection in accordance with the Freedom of Information
Act.
      4.   Such other duties as determined by the Local Commissioner. (Ord. 99-
2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-7: VILLAGE MANAGER AS CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER:
Subject to the policies of the Village Board and the direction of the Local
Commissioner, the Village Manager shall direct the Village staff in its
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. The Village Manager shall direct
the Village staff in performing its responsibilities related to the
administration of the liquor control ordinance, including, but not limited to,
the response to questions concerning liquor licenses and the handling of liquor
license applications. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-8: INSPECTION POWERS:
The Local Commissioner or any other law enforcing officer or other Village
employees are hereby given the power to enter, at any time, upon any licensed
premises to determine whether any of the provisions of the Dramshop Act
contained in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes, or any of the provisions or other
ordinances of Village or any regulation or rules adopted by the State Liquor
Commission or the Local Commissioner have been or are being violated, and at
such time to examine the premises of said licensee in connection therewith.
(Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-9: CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES:
Licenses for the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail in the Village shall be
classified as follows:
   A.   CLASS A: Full Service Restaurant With A Service Bar: A Class A license
shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in a restaurant for
consumption only within the licensed premises. Alcoholic liquor shall be served
as an adjunct to food service at the restaurant. A restaurant with a Class A
license shall be open for business at the minimum during the traditional dinner
hours of the day. A separate area where complete meals are not served is not
permitted; however, the service of alcoholic liquor may be permitted only in a
patron seating area which generally surrounds a service bar and/or where
patrons are waiting to be seated in another area of the restaurant to be
provided with a complete meal. Alcoholic liquor in all locations within the
restaurant shall be served by waitstaff only. There shall be no patron seating
at the counter of the service bar. For purposes of this Class A license,
seating within the bar/bar area shall constitute seating at which patrons can
order solely alcoholic liquor, without food, if they so choose.
For purposes of this Class A license, a "full service restaurant" is defined in
section
4-1-3 of this chapter and shall be further defined as any public place kept,
used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place where
complete meals are actually and regularly served, with adequate and sanitary
kitchen and dining room equipment and with adequate staff to take orders,
prepare food, and serve the food and beverages, including alcoholic beverages,
in a full service operation rather than a fast food service operation. The
principal business of a "full service restaurant" is the service of complete
meals, and said service of such meals shall constitute at least sixty percent
(60%) of the gross income of the establishment as distinguished from the
principal business being the service of food as a supplement to the service of
alcoholic liquor. The restaurant design shall reflect the character of an
establishment that is a restaurant rather than an establishment set up to serve
alcoholic liquor as its principal activity. Fast food restaurants are not
eligible for a Class A license.
A Class A license shall be subject to all of the following conditions and such
other appropriate conditions required by the Corporate Authorities of the
Village in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of such a liquor
license:
      1.   Consumption of alcoholic liquor and nonalcoholic liquor is
restricted to the dining area of the restaurant and the patron seating area of
the bar/bar area.
      2.   Alcoholic liquor shall not be sold in pitchers.
      3.   No package sales shall be permitted.
      4.   No billiard and/or pool tables or any other "mechanical/electrical
amusement device", as defined and regulated in section
3-4-2 of this Code, shall be permitted on the licensed premises, except
internet music stations, jukeboxes and video game devices/machines shall be
permitted provided the licensee complies with the Village mechanical/electrical
amusement device licensing requirements. Video gaming terminals, as regulated
by the Illinois Video Gaming Act 1 , are prohibited on the licensed premises.
      5.   The hours of operation regarding a Class A liquor license shall be
as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      6.   All Class A liquor licensees shall be required to have any on site
owner/manager and all employees and any other person(s) who may, as a part of
their job, sell alcoholic liquor to a customer, serve alcoholic liquor to any
person on the licensed premises or handle alcoholic liquor on the licensed
premises, take and successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers
Education and Training (BASSET) Program that has been certified by the State of
Illinois. Once the initial training certification expires, a renewal of the
BASSET training certification is required. A copy of the current BASSET course
completion certificate(s) for the on site owner/manager, his/her/its employees
and the above mentioned other person(s) shall be made available at all times at
the licensed premises for inspection by the Village Manager, or his or her
designee.
   B.   CLASS B LICENSE: Full Service Restaurant With A Patron Bar: A Class B
license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in a full service
restaurant for consumption only within the licensed premises. Alcoholic liquor
shall be served as an adjunct to food service at the restaurant. The amount of
customer seating in the restaurant dining area shall constitute at least sixty
percent (60%) of the total customer seating area available in all parts of the
restaurant. Customer seating area at the patron bar shall not exceed: 1) ten
percent (10%) of the total customer seating area in all parts of the
restaurant, or 2) fifteen percent (15%) of the total customer seating area
available in all parts of the restaurant for those restaurants having a patron
bar without a related bar/bar area.
For purposes of this Class B license, seating at the patron bar or within the
bar/bar area shall constitute seating at which patrons can order solely
alcoholic liquor, without food, if they so choose.
For purposes of this Class B license, a "full service restaurant" is defined in
section
4-1-3 of this chapter and shall be further defined as any public place kept,
used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place where
complete meals are actually and regularly served, with adequate and sanitary
kitchen and dining room equipment and with adequate staff to take orders,
prepare food, and serve the food and beverages, including alcoholic beverages,
in a full service operation rather than a fast food service operation. The
principal business of a "full service restaurant" is the service of complete
meals, and said service of such meals shall constitute at least sixty percent
(60%) of the gross income of the establishment as distinguished from the
principal business being the service of food as a supplement to the service of
alcoholic liquor. The restaurant design shall reflect the character of an
establishment that is a restaurant rather than an establishment set up to serve
alcoholic liquor as its principal activity. Fast food restaurants are not
eligible for a Class B license.
A Class B license shall be subject to all of the following conditions and such
other appropriate conditions required by the Corporate Authorities of the
Village in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of such a liquor
license:
      1.   Consumption of alcoholic liquor and nonalcoholic liquor is
restricted to the dining area of the restaurant, the patron bar and its related
patron seating area.
      2.   Alcoholic liquor shall not be sold in pitchers.
      3.   No package sales shall be permitted.
      4.   No billiard and/or pool tables or any other "mechanical/electrical
amusement device", as defined and regulated in section
3-4-2 of this Code, shall be permitted on the licensed premises, except
internet music stations, jukeboxes and video game devices/machines shall be
permitted provided the licensee complies with the Village mechanical/electrical
amusement device licensing requirements. Video gaming terminals, as regulated
by the Illinois Video Gaming Act 2 , are prohibited on the licensed premises.
      5.   The hours of operation regarding a Class B liquor license shall be
as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      6.   All Class B liquor licensees shall be required to have any on-site
owner/manager, and all employees and any other person(s) who may, as a part of
their job, sell alcoholic liquor to a customer, serve alcoholic liquor to any
person on the licensed premises or handle alcoholic liquor on the licensed
premises, take and successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers
Education and Training (BASSET) Program that has been certified by the State of
Illinois. Once the initial training certification expires, a renewal of the
BASSET training certification is required. A copy of the current BASSET course
completion certificate(s) for the on- site owner/manager, his/her/its employees
and the above mentioned other person(s) shall be made available at all times at
the licensed premises for inspection by the Village Manager, or his or her
designee.
   C.   CLASS C LICENSE: Full Service Restaurant; Beer And Wine Only (No Patron
Or Service Bar): A Class C license shall authorize the storage and retail sale
of beer and wine only in a full service restaurant for consumption only within
the licensed premises. Beer and wine shall be served as an adjunct to food
service at the restaurant. There shall be no patron bar or service bar within
the licensed premises.
For purposes of this Class C license, a "full service restaurant" is defined in
section
4-1-3 of this chapter and shall be further defined as any public place kept,
used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place where
complete meals are actually and regularly served, with adequate and sanitary
kitchen and dining room equipment and with adequate staff to take orders,
prepare food, and serve the food and beverages, including alcoholic beverages,
in a full service operation rather than a fast food service operation. The
principal business of a "full service restaurant" is the service of complete
meals, and said service of such meals shall constitute at least sixty percent
(60%) of the gross income of the establishment as distinguished from the
principal business being the service of food as a supplement to the service of
beer and wine. The restaurant design shall reflect the character of an
establishment that is a restaurant rather than an establishment set up to serve
beer and wine as its principal activity. Fast food restaurants are not eligible
for a Class C license.
A Class C license shall be subject to all of the following conditions and such
other appropriate conditions required by the Corporate Authorities of the
Village in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of such a liquor
license:
      1.   Consumption of beer and wine is restricted to the dining area of the
restaurant.
      2.   Beer and wine shall not be sold in pitchers.
      3.   No package sales shall be permitted.
      4.   No billiard and/or pool tables or any other "mechanical/electrical
amusement device", as defined and regulated in section
3-4-2 of this Code, shall be permitted on the licensed premises, except
internet music stations, jukeboxes and video game devices/machines shall be
permitted provided the licensee complies with the Village mechanical/electrical
amusement device licensing requirements. Video gaming terminals, as regulated
by the Illinois Video Gaming Act 3 , are prohibited on the licensed premises.
      5.   The hours of operation regarding a Class C liquor license shall be
as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      6.   All Class C liquor licensees shall be required to have any on-site
owner/manager and all employees and any other person(s) who may, as a part of
their job, sell alcoholic liquor to a customer, serve alcoholic liquor to any
person on the licensed premises or handle alcoholic liquor on the licensed
premises, take and successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers
Education and Training (BASSET) Program that has been certified by the State of
Illinois. Once the initial training certification expires, a renewal of the
BASSET training certification is required. A copy of the current BASSET course
completion certificate(s) for the on- site owner/manager, his/her/its employees
and the above mentioned other person(s) shall be made available at all times at
the licensed premises for inspection by the Village Manager, or his or her
designee.
   D.   CLASS D LICENSE: Limited Service Restaurant License; Beer And Wine Only
(No Patron Or Service Bar): A Class D license shall authorize the storage and
retail sale of beer and wine only in a limited service restaurant for
consumption only within the licensed premises. Beer and wine shall be served as
an adjunct to food service at the restaurant. There shall be no patron bar or
service bar within the licensed premises and the storage of beer and wine shall
not be located within the dining area.
For purposes of this Class D license, a limited service restaurant is defined
in section
4-1-3 of this chapter and shall be further defined as any public place kept,
used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place where
complete meals are actually and regularly served, with adequate and sanitary
kitchen and dining room equipment and with adequate staff to take orders,
prepare food, and serve the food and beverages, including alcoholic beverages,
in a limited service operation rather than a fast food service operation. The
principal business of a "limited service restaurant" is the service of complete
meals, and said service of such meals shall constitute at least sixty percent
(60%) of the gross income of the establishment as distinguished from the
principal business being the service of food as a supplement to the service of
beer and wine. The restaurant design shall reflect the character of an
establishment that is a restaurant rather than an establishment set up to serve
beer and wine as its principal activity. Fast food restaurants are not eligible
for a Class D license.
A Class D license shall be subject to all of the following conditions and such
other appropriate conditions required by the Corporate Authorities of the
Village in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of such a liquor
license:
      1.   Consumption of beer, wine and nonalcoholic liquor is restricted to
the dining area of the restaurant.
      2.   Beer and wine shall not be sold in pitchers.
      3.   No package sales shall be permitted.
      4.   No billiard and/or pool tables or any other "mechanical/electrical
amusement device", as defined and regulated in section
3-4-2 of this Code, shall be permitted on the licensed premises, except
internet music stations, jukeboxes and video game devices/machines shall be
permitted provided the licensee complies with the Village mechanical/electrical
amusement device licensing requirements. Video gaming terminals, as regulated
by the Illinois Video Gaming Act 4 , are prohibited on the licensed premises.
      5.   The hours of operation regarding a Class D liquor license shall be
as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      6.   All Class D liquor licensees shall be required to have any on site
owner/manager and all employees and any other person(s) who may, as a part of
their job, sell alcoholic liquor to a customer, serve alcoholic liquor to any
person on the licensed premises or handle alcoholic liquor on the licensed
premises, take and successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers
Education and Training (BASSET) Program that has been certified by the State of
Illinois. Once the initial training certification expires, a renewal of the
BASSET training certification is required. A copy of the current BASSET course
completion certificate(s) for the on site owner/manager, his/her/its employees
and the above mentioned other person(s) shall be made available at all times at
the licensed premises for inspection by the Village Manager, or his or her
designee.
   E.   CLASS E: Supermarket License: A Class E supermarket license shall
authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, in the original package only and
as an adjunct to the sale of groceries, by a supermarket, provided that the
licensee satisfies or meets all of the following conditions and such other
appropriate conditions required by the Corporate Authorities of the Village in
an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of such a liquor license:
      1.   The supermarket shall have a total gross interior retail sales floor
area of not less than twenty five thousand (25,000) square feet.
      2.   The licensee shall maintain and operate one primary, dedicated
liquor display area, but may also maintain and operate other limited liquor
display areas, separated from the other retail sales areas or incorporated
within the other retail sales areas, for purposes of cross merchandising liquor
with other retail products within the supermarket. Separate limited display
areas throughout the supermarket (e.g., stacked cases of beer, racks of wine,
end caps, etc.), are allowed, provided that the combined square footage of the
liquor display areas do not exceed the square footage limitation set forth in
subsection E3 of this section and the display areas comply with the other
liquor regulations (e.g., signage) of this Code.
      3.   The liquor display area(s) set aside for liquor sales within the
supermarket shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total gross interior
retail sales floor area of the supermarket. For purposes of determining the
allowable liquor display area(s), the proposed licensee shall submit an
accurate floor plan of the supermarket which includes the location of,
dimensions of and a description of the improvements that constitute the
proposed liquor display area(s), and the Director of Code Enforcement shall
make the final determination. Said floor plan shall also include the location
of, dimensions of and a description of the improvements that constitute the on
site storage area(s) for alcoholic liquor.
      4.   There shall be no banners, posters, signs, or advertising of any
kind posted or maintained in any of the exterior windows of or on the exterior
of the supermarket nor shall such items be visible from any place or point
outside of the supermarket that: a) advertise, relate to or depict any
alcoholic liquor or manufacturer, distributor, brand, slogan or logo (including
the generic term "liquor"); or b) announce, advertise, depict or relate to any
alcoholic liquor sale or special event. Within the liquor display area(s) only,
the supermarket may: a) post and maintain permanent, fixed signs that designate
said area for alcoholic liquor sales, and b) allow temporary signs and display
advertisements relative to the sale of alcoholic liquor being sold by the
supermarket.
      5.   Minors are prohibited from entering the primary, dedicated retail
liquor display area, unless accompanied by an adult. The licensee shall post
and maintain a sign visible and obvious as determined by the chief building and
Code official at the time the license is granted. Said sign shall be located at
the entry point of the retail liquor display area and shall read as follows:
Minors are prohibited from entering this liquor display area, unless
accompanied by an adult.
      6.   The sale of kegs and single cans or bottles or other containers of
beer, wine or other alcoholic beverages (e.g., wine coolers, prepared mixed
alcoholic beverages, etc.) is prohibited, except as allowed in this subsection.
The sale of single cans or bottles or other containers of premium beer or wine
or premium spirits in glass, metal or protective corrugated fiberboard box
containers that are at least three hundred seventy five milliliters (375 mL) in
size is allowed for off-site consumption only. The sale of any alcoholic liquor
packaged for sale in smaller than customary containers (e.g., "airline
bottles", flasks, etc.) is prohibited. The sale of single cans or bottles or
other containers of premium beer or wine or premium spirits or other alcoholic
beverages (e.g., wine coolers, prepared mixed alcoholic beverages, etc.) in
glass, metal or protective corrugated fiberboard box containers that are at
least three hundred fifty milliliters (350 mL) in size, but less than three
hundred seventy five milliliters (375 mL) in size, is allowed, but only in pre-
packaged 4-packs, 6-packs or 12-packs, or the licensee may allow customers to
mix alcoholic beverage brands that are at least three hundred fifty milliliters
(350 mL) in size to create their own 4-packs or 6-packs for off-site
consumption only. In the event the size of the container of alcoholic liquor is
questioned, the Local Liquor Commissioner, in his or her discretion based on
the totality of the circumstances, shall determine whether the container meets
the standards set forth in this subsection E6.
      7.   The hours of operation regarding a Class E liquor license shall be
as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      8.   All supermarket licensees shall be required to have all employees
who may, as a part of their job, sell alcoholic liquor to a customer or handle
alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises, take and successfully complete a
Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training (BASSET) Program
that has been certified by the State of Illinois. A copy of the BASSET course
completion certificate(s) for the employees shall be made available at all
times at the licensed premises for inspection by the Village Manager, or his or
her designee.
      9.   There shall be no consumption of alcoholic liquor on the licensed
premises, except for: a) tastings conducted in accordance with this Code or b)
consumption of nonpackaged alcoholic liquor in a dedicated cafe area in
accordance with a Village issued restaurant liquor license.
      10.   The licensee may allow limited tastings of premium beer and wine
only within the licensed premises only when the store is open to the public and
during the authorized hours of operation. The licensee may offer, conduct or
sponsor tasting sessions of premium beer and wine at preregistered events or
classes when the store is open to the general public during the authorized
hours of operation. In addition, the licensee may provide, at no charge,
samples of premium beer and wine currently offered for sale served in limited
quantities (not to exceed 1 ounce) in a cup or glass for consumption within the
licensed premises as part of a promotional retail sale offered by or sponsored
by the licensee during the authorized hours of operation. A per person charge
may be collected by the licensee for attendance at a tasting session (e.g., a
preregistered event or class) or the samples of beer and wine may be given away
as part of such a tasting. Customers shall not be allowed to leave the licensed
premises with an open bottle, container, cup or glass of premium beer or wine;
customers may remove an open wine bottle provided it has been sealed in
accordance with applicable State law 1 . There shall be no tastings of mass
produced, domestic beer.
   F.   CLASS F LICENSE: Culinary School License; Beer And Wine Only (No Patron
Or Service Bar): A Class F liquor license shall authorize the storage and
retail sale of beer and wine only for consumption within the licensed premises
by persons who are registered and participating in culinary classes offered by
a Village licensed culinary school. Beer and wine shall be served as an adjunct
to the culinary school classes. There shall be no patron bar or service bar
within the licensed premises and the storage of beer and wine shall not be
located within the area of the culinary school open to the public.
For purposes of this Class F liquor license, a "culinary school" is defined as
any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public
as a place where education and hands on instruction regarding the preparation
and cooking of meals and desserts takes place as well as the occasional service
of complete meals prepared as part of such culinary program on the licensed
premises, with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and with
adequate staff to instruct the patrons in the preparation and service of meals
and desserts. The principal business of a "culinary school" is education and
hands on instruction regarding the preparation and cooking of meals and
desserts, and fees from the culinary school's programs shall constitute at
least sixty percent (60%) of the gross income of the establishment as
distinguished from the principal business being the sale of beer and wine. The
culinary school design shall reflect the character of an establishment that is
a culinary school rather than an establishment set up to serve beer and wine as
its principal activity. Fast food restaurants are not eligible for a Class F
liquor license.
A Class F liquor license shall be subject to all of the following conditions
and such other appropriate conditions required by the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of
such a liquor license:
      1.   Consumption of beer, wine and nonalcoholic liquor is restricted to
the kitchen and dining area of the culinary school and shall be served or sold
by the glass for consumption within the licensed premises.
      2.   Beer and wine shall not be sold in pitchers.
      3.   No package sales shall be permitted. The sale of kegs and single
cans or bottles of beer or other alcoholic beverages (e.g., wine coolers,
spirits, prepared mixed drinks, etc.) is prohibited.
      4.   No patron bar or service bar.
      5.   There shall be no banners, posters, signs, or advertising of any
kind posted or maintained in any of the exterior windows of or on the exterior
of the culinary school building that: a) advertise, relate to or depict any
alcoholic liquor or manufacturer, distributor, brand, slogan or logo (including
the generic term "liquor"); or b) announce, advertise, depict or relate to any
alcoholic liquor sale or special event; except that the culinary school may
mention in its brochures, menus or other media based advertising the
availability of beer and wine as part of the culinary school program and the
school may post such a brochure or menu in a decorative posting box (not to
exceed 12 square feet in size) affixed to the exterior of the building located
adjacent to the entrance door.
      6.   The hours of operation regarding a Class F liquor license shall be
as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      7.   All culinary school licensees shall be required to have any on site
owner/manager and all employees and any other person(s) who may, as a part of
their job, sell or serve alcoholic liquor to a culinary school student, serve
alcoholic liquor to any person on the licensed premises or handle alcoholic
liquor on the licensed premises take and successfully complete a Beverage
Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training (BASSET) Program that has
been certified by the State of Illinois. Once the initial training
certification expires, a renewal of the BASSET training certification is
required. A copy of the current BASSET course completion certificate(s) for the
on site owner/manager, employees and the above mentioned other person(s) shall
be made available at all times at the licensed premises for inspection by the
Village Manager, or his or her designee.
   G.   CLASS G LICENSE: Fine Wine, Premium Spirits, Premium Beer And Gourmet
Food Store License; Premium Spirits, Premium Beer And Wine Only: A Class G
liquor license shall authorize the storage and retail sale of premium spirits,
premium beer, mass produced, domestic beer and wine in their original
containers, and the tasting of premium beer, wine and premium spirits in
limited quantities as part of a promotional retail sale offered by or sponsored
by the licensee during the authorized hours of operation. The licensee may also
conduct tasting sessions at preregistered events or classes when the store is
closed to the general public. Tastings, including the preregistered events or
classes, shall be conducted only in the same room, and same area, as the
display of premium beer, wine and premium spirits and shall occur only during
the authorized hours of operation.
For purposes of this Class G liquor license, a "fine wine, premium spirits,
premium beer and gourmet food store" is defined as any public place kept, used,
maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place that offers
premium spirits, premium beer, mass produced, domestic beer and wine for retail
sale in conjunction with the sale of related gourmet food and cheese products
and gourmet ingredients, gift baskets and wine glassware and other related
equipment. Gourmet food products include cheeses, crackers, specialty sauces,
gourmet chocolates, gourmet coffee, water and juices, prepackaged gourmet meats
and sausages and similar specialty gift products and fine food accessories, but
does not include quick preparation foods or general supermarket foods or
household products. A "premium beer" includes microbrewed beer brands,
microbrew styled beer brands and imported beer brands, but shall not include
mass produced domestic beer brands. "Premium spirits" means any spirit that has
a retail cost of not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) per bottle. "Mass
produced, domestic beer" means beer brands that are brewed in the United States
and available nationwide and are not marketed as premium beer. The principal
business of a "fine wine, premium spirits, premium beer and gourmet food store"
is the retail sale of packaged beer, premium spirits and wine and gourmet food
products as distinguished from the principal business being the retail sale of
premium spirits, premium beer and wine by the glass for consumption on the
premises. Any retail establishments, including, but not limited to, any
establishment commonly understood to be a drugstore, or a pantry, or a
convenience food mart, or any establishment also in the business of selling
gasoline, engaged principally in the sale of canned goods; dry goods such as
tea, sugar, flour, cereals, and the like; beverages, such as milk, juices, soda
pop and water; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh and prepared meats, fish,
poultry; and typical household goods are not eligible for a Class G liquor
license.
A Class G liquor license shall be subject to all of the following conditions
and such other appropriate conditions required by the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of
such a liquor license:
      1.   Container And Package Specifications: The sale of kegs and single
cans or bottles or other containers of beer, wine or other alcoholic beverages
(e.g., wine coolers, prepared mixed alcoholic beverages, etc.) is prohibited,
except as allowed in this subsection. The sale of single cans or bottles or
other containers of premium beer or wine or premium spirits in glass, metal or
protective corrugated fiberboard box containers that are at least three hundred
seventy five milliliters (375 mL) in size is allowed. The sale of any alcoholic
liquor packaged for sale in smaller than customary containers (e.g., "airline
bottles", flasks, etc.) is prohibited. The sale of single cans or bottles or
other containers of premium beer or wine or premium spirits or other alcoholic
beverages (e.g., wine coolers, prepared mixed alcoholic beverages, etc.) in
glass, metal or protective corrugated fiberboard box containers that are at
least three hundred fifty milliliters (350 mL) in size, but less than three
hundred seventy five milliliters (375 mL) in size, is allowed, but only in pre-
packaged 4-packs, 6-packs or 12-packs or the licensee may allow customers to
mix alcoholic beverage brands that are at least three hundred fifty milliliters
(350 mL) in size to create their own 4-packs or 6-packs for off-site
consumption only. Mass produced, domestic beer shall be available for retail
package sales only, shall be located in the coolers in 6-pack or 12-pack
containers only and shall not occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the
cooler space allocated for retail beer sales. In the event the size of the
container of alcoholic liquor is questioned, the Local Liquor Commissioner, in
his or her discretion, based on the totality of the circumstances, shall
determine whether the container meets the standards set forth in this
subsection. Where the licensee also holds an additional Village liquor license
that allows for the on-site consumption of alcoholic beverages (e.g., a
restaurant liquor license or an outdoor liquor cafe license), the licensee may
sell at retail single servings of alcoholic beverages in original containers
(e.g., single bottles, cans or protective corrugated fiberboard boxes) that are
at least three hundred fifty milliliters (350 mL) in size for consumption on
the licensed premises in compliance with the other Village liquor license that
allows for the on-site consumption of alcoholic beverages.
      2.   Service Counter: A service counter shall be allowed only for
purposes of conducting tastings of premium beer and wine as defined in
subsection G3 of this section. There shall be no tastings of premium spirits.
No customer seating or retail sale transactions of any kind shall be allowed at
the service counter, except in the case where the liquor license holder also
maintains a Class B liquor license. Where the liquor license holder maintains
both a Class B liquor license and a Class G liquor license, the service counter
may be used as a patron bar for purposes of customer seating and retail sales,
service and consumption of alcoholic beverages and meals by customers at the
patron bar. The amount of customer seating at the service counter/patron bar
shall be subject to the limitations contained in Class B liquor license
regulations of this Code.
      3.   Conduct Of Tastings: Premium beer and wine may be sold, given away
or offered for sale within the licensed premises only during the authorized
hours of operation. The licensee may conduct or sponsor tasting sessions of
premium beer and wine at preregistered events or classes when the store is
closed to the general public, but only during the authorized hours of
operation. In addition, the licensee may provide, at no charge, samples of
premium beer and wine currently offered for sale served in limited quantities
in a cup or glass for consumption within the licensed premises as part of a
promotional retail sale offered by or sponsored by the licensee during the
authorized hours of operation. A per person charge may be collected by the
licensee for attendance at a tasting session (e.g., a preregistered event or
class) or the samples of beer and wine may be given away as part of such a
tasting. All tastings shall be conducted only in the same room, and same area,
as the liquor display area and shall occur only during the authorized hours of
operation. Customers shall not be allowed to leave the licensed premises with
an open bottle, container, cup or glass of premium beer or wine. There shall be
no tastings of mass produced, domestic beer.
      4.   Liquor Display Areas: The liquor display area set aside for premium
beer and wine within the store shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the
total gross interior retail sales floor area of the store. The liquor display
area set aside for premium spirits within the store shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the total gross interior retail sales floor area of the store.
There shall be no floor displays advertising mass produced, domestic beer or
stacks of mass produced, domestic beer on the floor. For purposes of
determining the allowable liquor display areas for beer and wine and spirits,
the proposed licensee shall submit an accurate floor plan of the store which
includes the location of, dimensions of, and a description of the improvements
that constitute the proposed alcoholic liquor display area and the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, in consultation with the Director of Community
Development, shall approve the floor plan.
      5.   Prohibited: No tobacco products or lottery tickets shall be offered
for sale or sold within the store.
      6.   Sign Regulations: There shall be no banners, posters, signs, or
advertising of any kind posted or maintained in any of the exterior windows of
or on the exterior of the building that: a) advertise, relate to or depict any
alcoholic liquor or manufacturer, distributor, brand, slogan or logo (including
the generic term "liquor"); or b) announce, advertise, depict or relate to any
alcoholic liquor sale or special event; except that a fine wine and gourmet
food store may advertise in any lawful manner or post a business sign in
accordance with the Village's sign regulations that contains the words "fine
wine" (e.g., "Western Springs Fine Wine And Gourmet Food Store"), "wine" (e.g.,
Smith's Wine Shop), "wine bar" (e.g., Smith's Wine Bar), or "vino" (e.g.,
"Taste Of Vino") on the exterior of the building or in or affixed to the window
of the store that is located either over or adjacent to the entrance to the
store.
      7.   Minors Prohibited Unless Accompanied By Adult: Minors shall be
prohibited from entering a fine wine, premium spirits, premium beer and gourmet
food store, unless accompanied by an adult. The licensee shall post and
maintain a sign immediately inside the entrance that is visible and obvious as
determined by the Director of Community Development at the time the license is
granted and said sign shall read as follows:
Minors are prohibited from entering this store, unless accompanied by an adult.
      8.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation regarding a Class G
liquor license shall be as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      9.   BASSET Certification Required: The fine wine and gourmet food store
owner, each employee of said store and any other person who sells or serves
premium beer, spirits and wine to a patron or handles alcoholic liquor on the
licensed premises must take and successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol
Sellers and Servers Education and Training (BASSET) Program that has been
certified by the State of Illinois. A copy of the BASSET course completion
certificate(s) for the aforementioned persons shall be made available at all
times at the licensed premises for inspection by the Village Manager, or his or
her designee.
      10.   Separate Cash Registers Or Sales Tracking System Required: In the
case of a licensee that has received a Class G liquor license (fine wine,
premium spirits, premium beer and gourmet food store) and then petitions for
and receives one of the full service or limited service restaurant liquor
licenses, the licensee shall operate separate cash registers or a sales
tracking system to record all retail transactions relative to each specific
liquor license.
   H.   CLASS H LICENSE: Outdoor Liquor Cafe: A Class "H" liquor license shall
authorize restaurants that hold a current
      Village-issued restaurant related liquor license and holders of a current
Village-issued Class "O" (Craft Beer, Wine, And Spirits Establishment License
(On-Site Consumption And Packaged Sales)) Liquor License or Class "Q" (Wine
Tasting And Retail Wine Sales By The Bottle; On-Site Consumption) Liquor
License to be eligible to apply for and receive a Class "H" (Outdoor Liquor
Cafe) Liquor License to permit the sale, service and consumption of alcoholic
beverages within a Village licensed outdoor liquor cafe operated by the liquor
license holder while patrons are being served a complete meal by the restaurant
or while pre-prepared and delivered foods are available for purchase and
consumption by patrons, subject to the following conditions and such other
conditions required by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village in an
ordinance approving the creation and issuance of such a liquor license:
      1.   Consumption of alcoholic beverages is restricted to the licensed
premises, which shall be an outdoor café that has received a Village issued
business certificate pursuant to section 10-4-5 of the development control
ordinance. The Village Board and Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall
approve the location and layout of the outdoor café as part of the approval of
an ordinance creating the liquor license to be issued to a particular
applicant.
      2.   The outdoor liquor café shall be subject to the rules of operation
set forth in section
10-4-5 of the development control ordinance. In addition, the location, layout
and operation of an outdoor liquor café shall be subject to the conditions set
forth in the ordinance creating a Class H liquor license and such other rules
or conditions relating to the service and consumption of alcoholic beverages as
set forth in writing and required by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
including restrictions on noise, music, screening, etc.
      3.   A Class H license shall only be granted to a licensee who holds
another Village issued restaurant related liquor license and is in good
standing under the terms of the license. Portions of the application submittal
including background check may be waived for the licensee by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
      4.   No package sales shall be permitted under this license. The sale of
beer, wine, spirits or other alcoholic beverages (e.g., wine coolers, spirits,
prepared mixed drinks, etc.) in kegs or pitchers is prohibited.
      5.   No billiard and/or pool tables or “mechanical/electrical amusement
devices” as defined in section
3-4-2 of this Code shall be permitted on the licensed premises.
      6.   Patrons are prohibited from taking any opened alcoholic beverage
outside of the premises, except for a recorked wine bottle that has been sealed
in a carryout bag in accordance with State law1.
      7.   The hours of operation regarding a Class H liquor license shall be
as set forth in section
4-1-13, “Hours Of Operation”, of this chapter. An initial applicant for or
current holder of a Class H liquor license, in good standing, may apply for
extended hours of operation as set forth in section
4-1-13, “Hours Of Operation”, of this chapter, which shall be subject to
approval by ordinance by a majority of the Board of Trustees and with the
consent of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner after a meeting is conducted
before the Local Liquor Control Commission on the matter. At least ten (10)
calendar days prior to the Local Liquor Control Commission meeting date, a
notice shall be mailed by the applicant via first class United States mail,
regular delivery, in envelopes addressed to those persons and their property
addresses contained in the Village’s water billing account information who are
located within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the outdoor liquor café. The
notice shall contain the date, time and place of the Local Liquor Control
Commission meeting and a brief description of the application and request for
extended hours. A copy of the agenda for the Local Liquor Control Commission
meeting shall be a sufficient notice. An affidavit that attests to the
completion of the mailing of the notice shall be filed by the applicant with
the Village Manager at or prior to the meeting. The annual renewal of any Class
H liquor license and any such liquor license with extended hours of operation
shall be subject to the approval by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
Where there have been one or more written complaints filed with the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner during the current license year in regard to the
operation of the outdoor liquor café, the annual renewal shall be subject to
the approval of a majority of the Board of Trustees and the consent of the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner. No additional license fee beyond payment of
the Class H annual license fee shall be paid for extended hours of operation.
      8.   The licensee, each on site manager and all waitstaff shall take and
successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and
Training (BASSET) Program that has been certified by the State of Illinois and
shall obtain from the Village a current copy of the liquor license ordinance. A
copy of the BASSET course completion certificate(s) for each such person shall
be made available at all times at the licensed premises for inspection by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, or his or her designee.
   I.   CLASS I LICENSE: Special Events On Property Owned Or Leased By A Not
For Profit Organization: A Class I liquor license shall authorize the retail
sale and dispensing of alcoholic liquor (beer, wine and spirits) for
consumption on the licensed premises where sold at a special event that is
conducted by or sponsored by a qualified educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious or other not for profit organization. For any such special
event, the retail sale and dispensing of alcoholic liquor and the consumption
of alcoholic liquor shall be allowed in an alcoholic beverage tent or alcoholic
beverage sales/consumption area, subject to the approval of the President and
Board of Trustees and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. The applicant
shall provide a diagram that proposes the size, internal setup and location of
an alcoholic beverage tent or an alcoholic beverage sales/consumption area to
be operated during the special event as part of its application. The size,
internal setup and location of an alcoholic beverage tent or an alcoholic
beverage sales/consumption area shall be approved by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion. A special event liquor license is
not required for a private event on private property where the event is not
open to the public and where there is no retail sale of alcoholic liquor. The
payment of any type of charge, fee or requirement of a donation to attend a
special event where any portion of the charge, fee or donation relates to the
purchase of alcoholic liquor to be consumed by the attendee is a retail sale
transaction and requires the issuance of a Class I liquor license.
A Class I liquor license, if approved, shall be subject to each of the
appropriate conditions required by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of such a liquor
license, the approval and issuance of the liquor license by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner and the following conditions:
      1.   Preapplication Review: In order to determine whether a Class I
liquor license is required for a particular special event, prior to submitting
an application, the prospective applicant may send a preapplication letter to
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner requesting a determination of whether the
proposed special event requires the issuance of a Class I liquor license. The
preapplication letter shall contain sufficient facts regarding the special
event that will allow the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to evaluate whether
the special event will involve the retail sale of alcohol. The Local Liquor
Control Commissioner may request additional information from the prospective
applicant and may request a meeting with the applicant to discuss the matter in
more detail or to inspect the proposed special event site. The Local Liquor
Control Commissioner's determination relative to any special event shall be
made on a case by case basis and shall be limited to that particular special
event as described in the preapplication letter. A decision by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner that a Class I liquor license is required for a special
event is not an approval of a Class I liquor license. The decision by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner that a liquor license is not required for a special
event may be reviewed and changed in the future by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, or his/her successor, based on facts that show the special event
involves the retail sale of alcohol.
      2.   Consumption: Consumption of alcoholic liquor is restricted to the
licensed premises.
      3.   Approval Of Location; Approved Containers: At indoor special events,
alcoholic liquor may be sold and served in glass bottles, glassware or paper or
plastic cups. At outdoor special events, alcoholic liquor shall be sold and
served in paper or plastic cups at retail in an alcoholic beverage tent or
alcoholic beverage sales/consumption area, the size, internal setup, fence
requirements and location of which shall be subject to the approval of the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      4.   Security; Outdoor Alcoholic Beverage Tent: An outdoor alcoholic
beverage tent or alcoholic beverage sales/consumption area shall have
designated entrance and exit points for patrons and minors shall be prohibited
from entering into the alcoholic beverage tent. During hours of operation, an
outdoor alcoholic beverage tent or alcoholic beverage sales/consumption area
shall have at least one person over the age of twenty one (21) posted at each
designated entrance and exit point to check State or government issued
identification of patrons.
      5.   Security; Alcoholic Beverage Sales/Consumption Area: If there is a
dedicated alcoholic beverage sales/consumption area open to the general public,
proper security measures, such as color coded wristbands, shall be used to
designate minors and adults who enter the alcoholic beverage sales/consumption
area.
      6.   Music: Amplified music or live music or other forms of music
entertainment are not permitted at an outdoor special event, unless approved
and regulated by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Western
Springs in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of such a liquor
license and the approval by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      7.   Package Sales Prohibited; No Pitchers: No package sales shall be
permitted. The sale or giving away of alcoholic liquor in pitchers is
prohibited.
      8.   Sales Limitation Per Person: No more than two (2) servings of
alcoholic liquor shall be sold to any person during each retail sales
transaction or dispensed to any person at one time.
      9.   Signage: The posting of advertising signs that relate to the sale of
any type of alcoholic liquor shall be prohibited, except for signs, located
within the alcoholic beverage tent or alcoholic beverage sales/consumption area
and approved by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, that identify the
alcoholic liquor being offered for retail sale.
      10.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation regarding a Class I
liquor license shall be as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      11.   BASSET Training: All persons who sell or serve alcoholic liquor or
handle alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises shall take and successfully
complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training (BASSET)
Program that has been certified by the State of Illinois. A copy of the BASSET
course completion certificate(s) for each such person shall be made available
at all times at the licensed premises for inspection by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, or his or her designee.
      12.   Residency: At least one officer or member of the not for profit
organization to which such license is issued must be a resident of the Village
of Western Springs and must sign the local liquor license application.
      13.   Number Of Events: Subject to the approval of the President and
Board of Trustees and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, an applicant may
be authorized to conduct more than one special event under the issuance of a
single Class I liquor license in any one calendar year.
      14.   State And Village Licenses: Prior to conducting the special event,
the holder of a Class I liquor license must provide to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner evidence of all required State and Village licenses, including a
State special event liquor license or similar approval.
      15.   Duration Of Special Event License: A Class I liquor license shall
be valid and in effect for a maximum of four (4) consecutive days. The number
of days shall be subject to approval by the President and Board of Trustees of
the Village of Western Springs as contained in the ordinances approving the
creation and issuance of such a liquor license, and the further approval and
issuance of the liquor license by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      16.   Application Process: At least sixty (60) days prior to the special
event date, the applicant shall file with the Village Manager a completed
application, site plan or diagram, undergo fingerprinting and a background
check conducted by the Western Springs Department of Law Enforcement Services,
pay the nonrefundable application fee and provide a current price quote for the
insurance coverage as required by sections
4-1-11,
4-1-16,
4-1-18 and
4-1-20 of this chapter. Payment of the liquor license fee, delivery of the
final certificate of insurance to the Village Manager and satisfying each
precondition set forth in the ordinance that creates a liquor license for the
applicant must be completed prior to the issuance of the liquor license. This
sixty (60) day prefiling requirement is effective January 1, 2011.
      17.   Compliance With Other Laws: The operation of the special event
shall comply with State and Village Fire and Health Code regulations,
accessibility laws and regulations and all other applicable provisions of
Federal, State or County law and this Code.
      18.   Revocation: A Class I liquor license issued to an applicant for one
or more special events in a calendar year may be revoked by action of the
Village Board at any time with thirty (30) days' written notice or immediately
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner in the event of a violation of the
liquor control ordinance or any of the provisions of the ordinance creating the
liquor license for issuance to the applicant.
      19.   Charges For Additional Municipal Services: The Village reserves the
right to charge the applicant for special Municipal services, such as police,
fire and public works personnel and services, that are necessary to protect the
health, welfare and safety of the public and those individuals who attend the
special event.
      20.   Notification Of Application: After filing of an application for a
Class I liquor license and receiving a Local Liquor Control Commission meeting
date from the Village, the applicant will send written notice by first class
United States mail of the Local Liquor Control Commission meeting to be held to
consider the application to those property addresses located within one hundred
feet (100') of the location of the proposed special event. The notice shall
contain the date, time and place of the Local Liquor Control Commission meeting
and a brief description of the application. A copy of the agenda for the Local
Liquor Control Commission meeting shall be a sufficient notice. At least ten
(10) calendar days prior to the meeting date, the notices shall be mailed in
envelopes addressed to those persons and their property addresses contained in
the Village's water billing account information who are located within one
hundred feet (100') of the proposed special event location. An affidavit that
attests to the completion of the mailing of the notice shall be filed by the
applicant with the Village Manager at or prior to the meeting.
   J.   CLASS J LICENSE: Special Events Only On Village Owned Property (Beer,
Wine And Specialty Drinks Only): A Class J liquor license shall authorize the
retail sale and dispensing of beer, wine and specialty drinks only for
consumption on the licensed premises where sold at a special event that is open
to the public and conducted by or sponsored by the Village of Western Springs
or by qualified educational, fraternal, political, civic, religious, charitable
or other not for profit organization in conjunction with the Village of Western
Springs on Village owned property or by for profit local businesses in
conjunction with the Village on Village owned property. Multiple not for profit
organizations or for profit local businesses may apply for a single special
event liquor license to conduct a special event with the Village. For any such
special event, the retail sale and dispensing of beer, wine or specialty drinks
shall be allowed in an alcoholic beverage tent or in individual retail sales/
tasting booths operated by the not for profit organizations or for profit local
businesses that apply for the Class J liquor license or within an alcoholic
beverage sales/consumption area, subject to the approval of the President and
Board of Trustees and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. The consumption of
beer, wine and specialty drinks shall occur within the alcoholic beverage
sales/consumption area as approved by the President and Board of Trustees and
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. The applicant(s) shall provide a diagram
that proposes the size, internal setup and location of the alcoholic beverage
tent or the individual retail sales/tasting booths and the alcoholic beverage
sales/consumption area to be operated during the special event as part of its
application. The size, internal setup and location of the alcoholic beverage
tent or the individual retail sales/tasting booths and the alcoholic beverage
sales/consumption area shall be approved by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion. For the purposes of this Section,
specialty drinks shall mean drinks which contain spirits and are available for
sale as part of a special event on Village owned property (for example,
margaritas served as part of a cantina night event).
A Class J liquor license, if approved, shall be subject to each of the
appropriate conditions required by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Western Springs in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance
of such a liquor license, the approval and issuance of the liquor license by
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and the following conditions:
      1.   Preapplication Review: In order to determine whether a Class J
liquor license is required for a particular special event, prior to submitting
an application, the prospective applicant may send a preapplication letter to
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner requesting a determination of whether the
proposed special event requires the issuance of a Class J liquor license. The
preapplication letter shall contain sufficient facts regarding the special
event that will allow the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to evaluate whether
the special event will involve the retail sale of alcohol. The Local Liquor
Control Commissioner may request additional information from the prospective
applicant and may request a meeting with the applicant to discuss the matter in
more detail or to inspect the proposed special event site. The Local Liquor
Control Commissioner's determination relative to any special event shall be
made on a case by case basis and shall be limited to that particular special
event as described in the preapplication letter. A decision by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner that a Class J liquor license is required for a special
event is not an approval of a Class J liquor license. The decision by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner that a liquor license is not required for a special
event may be reviewed and changed in the future by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, or his/her successor, based on facts that show the special event
involves the retail sale of alcohol.
      2.   Consumption: Consumption of beer, wine and specialty drinks is
restricted to the licensed premises; the sale or giving away or consumption of
all other types of alcoholic liquor beverages shall be prohibited.
      3.   Approval Of Location; Approved Containers: Beer, wine and specialty
drinks shall be sold and served in paper or plastic cups at retail in an
alcoholic beverage tent, individual retail sales/tasting booths or an alcoholic
beverage sales/consumption area, the size, internal setup, fence requirements
and location of which shall be subject to the approval of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
      4.   Security; Outdoor Alcoholic Beverage Tent: An outdoor alcoholic
beverage tent shall have designated entrance and exit points for patrons and
minors shall be prohibited from entering into the alcoholic beverage tent.
During hours of operation, an outdoor alcoholic beverage tent shall have at
least one person over the age of twenty one (21) posted at each designated
entrance and exit point to check State or government issued identification of
patrons.
      5.   Security; Alcoholic Beverage Sales/Consumption Area: If there is a
dedicated alcoholic beverage sales/consumption area open to the general public
that contains an alcoholic beverage tent or individual retail sales/tasting
booths, proper security measures, such as color coded wristbands, shall be used
to designate minors and adults who enter the alcoholic beverage sales/
consumption area.
      6.   Music: Amplified music or live music or other forms of music
entertainment are not permitted at an outdoor special event, unless approved
and regulated by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Western
Springs in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of such a liquor
license and the approval by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      7.   Package Sales Prohibited; No Pitchers: No package sales shall be
permitted. The sale or giving away of alcoholic beverages in pitchers is
prohibited.
      8.   Sales Limitation Per Person: No more than two (2) servings of beer,
wine or specialty drinks shall be sold to any person during each retail sales
transaction or dispensed to any person at one time.
      9.   Signage: The posting of advertising signs that relate to the sale of
beer, wine or other alcoholic liquor shall be prohibited, except for signs,
located within the alcoholic beverage tent or alcoholic beverage sales/
consumption area and approved by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, that
identify the beer, wine and specialty drinks being offered for retail sale.
      10.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation regarding a Class J
liquor license shall be as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      11.   BASSET Training: All persons who sell or serve beer, wine or
specialty drinks or handle beer, wine or specialty drinks on the licensed
premises shall take and successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and
Servers Education and Training (BASSET) Program that has been certified by the
State of Illinois. A copy of the BASSET course completion certificate(s) for
each such person shall be made available at all times at the licensed premises
for inspection by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, or his or her
designee.
      12.   Number Of Events: Subject to the approval of the President and
Board of Trustees and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, an applicant may
be authorized to conduct more than one special event under the issuance of a
single Class J liquor license in any one calendar year.
      13.   State And Village Licenses: Prior to conducting the special event,
the holder of a Class J liquor license must provide to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner evidence of all required State licenses, including a State special
event liquor license or similar approval. Where multiple not for profit
organizations or for profit local businesses apply for a single special event
liquor license to conduct a special event with the Village, each not for profit
organization or for profit local business shall file its own liquor license
application and provide satisfactory proof that it complies with the
eligibility requirements of this Code to possess a Village liquor license and
must obtain all other required Village and State licenses, including a State
special event liquor license or similar approval. Where a Class J liquor
license is approved for multiple not for profit organizations or for profit
local businesses to conduct a special event with the Village, the Class J
liquor license shall list each of the approved not for profit organizations or
for profit local businesses who are authorized to sell or offer for sale beer,
wine and specialty drinks during the special event.
      14.   Duration Of Special Event License: A Class J liquor license shall
be valid and in effect for a maximum of four (4) consecutive days. The number
of days shall be subject to approval by the President and Board of Trustees of
the Village of Western Springs as contained in the ordinances approving the
creation and issuance of such a liquor license, and the further approval and
issuance of the liquor license by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      15.   Application Process: At least sixty (60) days prior to the special
event date, the applicant shall file with the Village Manager a completed
application, site plan or diagram, undergo fingerprinting and a background
check conducted by the Western Springs Department of Law Enforcement Services,
pay the nonrefundable application fee and provide a current price quote for the
required insurance coverage as required by sections
4-1-11,
4-1-16,
4-1-18 and
4-1-20 of this chapter. Payment of the liquor license fee, delivery of the
final certificate of insurance to the Village Manager and satisfying each
precondition set forth in the ordinance that creates a liquor license for the
applicant must be completed prior to the issuance of the liquor license. For
applicants that already hold a current Village liquor license and are in good
standing, fingerprinting and a background check may be waived by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner.
      16.   Compliance With Other Laws: The operation of the special event
shall comply with State and Village Fire and Health Code regulations,
accessibility laws and regulations and all other applicable provisions of
Federal, State or County law and this Code.
      17.   License And Indemnification Agreement: To be eligible to conduct a
special event on the Village's land or public right- of-way, the applicant must
enter into a license agreement with the Village. The Village's license
agreement requires the applicant to agree to hold harmless and indemnification
provisions, and submit to the Village evidence of general liability insurance
that names the Village and its appointed and elected officials, employees,
agents, attorneys, engineers and volunteers (Village affiliates) as named
additional insureds and insuring the Village and its affiliates against any
liability resulting from the use of the Village's land or public right-of-way.
Minimum coverage shall be two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per occurrence
for general liability insurance and the policy shall have no less than an A
rating by the most recent "A.M. Best Insurance Rating Guide".
      18.   Revocation: A Class J liquor license issued to an applicant for one
or more special events in a calendar year may be revoked by action of the
Village Board at any time with thirty (30) days' written notice or immediately
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner in the event of a violation of the
liquor control ordinance or any of the provisions of the ordinance creating the
liquor license for issuance to the applicant.
      19.   Charges For Additional Municipal Services: The Village reserves the
right to charge the applicant for special Municipal services, such as police,
fire and public works personnel and services, that are necessary to protect the
health, welfare and safety of the public and those individuals who attend the
special event.
      20.   Notification Of Application: After filing an application for a
Class J liquor license and receiving a Local Liquor Control Commission meeting
date from the Village, the applicant will send written notice by first class
United States mail of the Local Liquor Control Commission meeting to be held to
consider the application to those property addresses located within one hundred
feet (100') of the location of the proposed special event. The notice shall
contain the date, time and place of the Local Liquor Control Commission meeting
and a brief description of the application. A copy of the agenda for the Local
Liquor Control Commission meeting shall be a sufficient notice. At least ten
(10) calendar days prior to the meeting date, the notices shall be mailed in
envelopes addressed to those persons and their property addresses contained in
the Village's water billing account information who are located within one
hundred feet (100') of the proposed special event location. An affidavit that
attests to the completion of the mailing of the notice shall be filed by the
applicant with the Village Manager at or prior to the meeting. The applicant,
for renewal of a special event liquor license, is required to prepare, send out
and comply with the notice, mailing and affidavit requirements set forth above,
unless the Local Liquor Control Commissioner decides that the only
consideration of the application will be before the Village Board; in such
case, the notice shall contain the date, time and place of the Village Board
meeting and a brief description of the application.
   K.   CLASS K LICENSE: BYOB - Corkage License (Beer And Wine Only): A Class K
liquor license shall authorize restaurants that do not sell alcoholic beverages
to permit consumption of beer or wine only brought onto the premises of a
restaurant by an adult patron for personal consumption, including consumption
by their adult dining guest(s), while the patron and dining guest(s) are being
served a complete meal in the restaurant, subject to all of the following
conditions and such other appropriate conditions required by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner and the President and Board of Trustees of the Village in
an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of such a liquor license:
      1.   Consumption of beer and wine is restricted to the licensed premises.
If the restaurant maintains a Village issued outdoor cafe permit, then the
licensed premises may include the outdoor cafe dining area as well as the
dining area of the restaurant, subject to the approval of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner and the Village Board.
      2.   The restaurant may charge a corkage fee to the patron.
      3.   The sale of beer, wine, spirits and all other types of alcoholic
liquor beverages to patrons of the licensed premises shall be prohibited.
      4.   No package sales shall be permitted under this license. The sale of
beer, wine, spirits or other alcoholic beverages (e.g., wine coolers, spirits,
prepared mixed drinks, etc.) in single cans or bottles, kegs or pitchers or any
other form is prohibited.
      5.   No billiard and/or pool tables or any other "mechanical/electrical
amusement device", as defined and regulated in section
3-4-2 of this Code, shall be permitted on the licensed premises, except
internet music stations, jukeboxes and video game devices/machines shall be
permitted provided the licensee complies with the Village mechanical/electrical
amusement device licensing requirements. Video gaming terminals, as regulated
by the Illinois Video Gaming Act 6 , are prohibited on the licensed premises.
      6.   The licensee, on site manager(s) or its BASSET trained waitstaff
shall be responsible for opening the beer or wine bottles or containers brought
into licensed premises by the patrons and may provide glasses to the patrons as
part of the service of the beer or wine to its patrons.
      7.   Patrons are prohibited from taking any opened alcoholic beverage
outside of the premises, except for a recorked wine bottle that has been sealed
in a carry out bag in accordance with State law 7
      8.   The hours of operation regarding a Class K liquor license shall be
as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      9.   The licensee, on site manager(s) and all waitstaff shall take and
successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and
Training (BASSET) Program that has been certified by the State of Illinois and
shall obtain from the Village a current copy of the liquor license ordinance. A
copy of the BASSET course completion certificate(s) for each such person shall
be made available at all times at the licensed premises for inspection by the
Local Liquor Commissioner, or his or her designee.
   L.   CLASS L LICENSE: Limited Special Event License; Tastings Of Beer And
Wine And Beer And Wine Package Sales Only: A Class L liquor license is
available only to current Village liquor license holders, in good standing, and
shall authorize tastings of beer and wine in limited quantities and the retail
package sales of beer and wine at a community festival or special event that is
open to the public and conducted by or sponsored by the Village of Western
Springs or by qualified educational, fraternal, political, civic, religious,
charitable or other not for profit organizations in conjunction with the
Village of Western Springs on Village owned property or by for profit local
businesses in conjunction with the Village on Village owned property. There
shall be no retail sales of beer or wine by the glass for consumption on the
licensed premises. The tastings and retail package sales of beer and wine shall
occur within the alcoholic beverage sales/consumption area as approved by the
President and Board of Trustees and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. The
applicant(s) shall provide a diagram that proposes the size, internal setup and
location of the alcoholic beverage tent or the individual retail sales/tasting
booth(s) and the alcoholic beverage sales/consumption area to be operated
during the special event as part of its application. The size, internal setup
and location of the alcoholic beverage tent or the individual retail sales/
tasting booth(s) and the alcoholic beverage sales/consumption area shall be
approved by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, in his or her sole
discretion.
A Class L liquor license, if approved, shall be subject to each of the
appropriate conditions required by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Western Springs in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance
of such a liquor license, the approval and issuance of the liquor license by
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and the following conditions as
applicable:
      1.   Preapplication Review: In order to determine whether a Class L
liquor license is required for a particular special event, prior to submitting
an application, the prospective applicant may send a preapplication letter to
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner requesting a determination of whether the
proposed special event requires the issuance of a Class L liquor license. The
preapplication letter shall contain sufficient facts regarding the special
event that will allow the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to evaluate whether
the special event will involve the retail sale of alcohol. The Local Liquor
Control Commissioner may request additional information from the prospective
applicant and may request a meeting with the applicant to discuss the matter in
more detail or to inspect the proposed special event site. The Local Liquor
Control Commissioner's determination relative to any special event shall be
made on a case by case basis and shall be limited to that particular special
event as described in the preapplication letter. A decision by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner that a Class L liquor license is required for a special
event is not an approval of a Class L liquor license. The decision by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner that a liquor license is not required for a special
event may be reviewed and changed in the future by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, or his/her successor, based on new facts.
      2.   Consumption At Tastings; Package Sales: Consumption of beer and wine
during a tasting event is restricted to the licensed premises; retail sale or
give away of beer or wine in amounts greater than prescribed below is
prohibited. The retail sale or giving away or consumption of all other types of
alcoholic liquor beverages is prohibited. Any current Village liquor license
holder, who is allowed under its license to sell and serve beer and wine to
patrons for on premises consumption, shall be allowed to conduct tastings.
Package sales of beer and wine shall be allowed by only current Village liquor
license holders who hold a package sales liquor license. Package sales shall be
allowed only in original packaging, except that mixing of beer brands for sale
in 6-packs, 12-packs or cases is allowed. There shall be no sales of single
beer bottles or cans.
      3.   Approval Of Location; Approved Containers: Beer and wine shall be
served in paper or plastic cups. Individual serving size for beer shall not
exceed two (2) ounces and for wine shall not exceed one ounce.
      4.   Security: During hours of operation, a liquor license holder shall
have at least one person over the age of twenty one (21) present on the
licensed premises who shall check State or government issued identification of
each person participating in any tasting or purchasing beer or wine.
      5.   Security; Alcoholic Beverage Sales/Consumption Area: If there is a
dedicated alcoholic beverage sales/consumption area open to the general public,
proper security measures, such as color coded wristbands, shall be used to
designate minors and adults who enter the alcoholic beverage sales/consumption
area.
      6.   Signage: The posting of advertising signs that relate to the sale of
beer, wine or other alcoholic liquor shall be prohibited, except for signs,
located within the alcoholic beverage tent or alcoholic beverage sales/
consumption area and approved by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, that
identify the beer and wine being offered for tastings or retail package sale.
      7.   Hours Of Operation: Tastings and package sales may be conducted
subject to the hour limitations set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter, which may be further restricted
by ordinance for any liquor licensee in the discretion of the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village of Western Springs.
      8.   BASSET Training: All persons who sell or serve beer or wine or
handle beer or wine on the licensed premises shall take and successfully
complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training (BASSET)
Program that has been certified by the State of Illinois. A copy of the BASSET
course completion certificate(s) for each such person shall be made available
at all times at the licensed premises for inspection by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, or his or her designee.
      9.   State And Village Licenses: Prior to operating at the special event,
the holder of a Class L liquor license must provide to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner evidence of all required Village and State licenses, including a
State special event liquor license or similar approval if applicable.
      10.   Duration Of Special Event License: A Class L liquor license shall
be valid and in effect for the period of time approved by the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village of Western Springs as stated in the ordinance
approving the creation and issuance of such a liquor license.
      11.   Application Process: At least sixty (60) days prior to the special
event date, the applicant shall file with the Village Manager a completed
application, site plan or diagram, pay the license fee and provide a current
price quote for the required insurance coverage as required by sections
4-1-11,
4-1-16,
4-1-18 and
4-1-20 of this chapter. Payment of the liquor license fee, delivery of the
final certificate of insurance to the Village Manager and satisfying each
precondition set forth in the ordinance that creates a liquor license for the
applicant must be completed prior to the issuance of the liquor license. Since
applicants already hold a current Village liquor license and are in good
standing, fingerprinting and a background check will be waived.
      12.   Compliance With Other Laws: The operation of the special event
shall comply with State and Village Fire and Health Code regulations,
accessibility laws and regulations, and all other applicable provisions of
Federal, State or County laws and this Code.
      13.   License And Indemnification Agreement: To be eligible to conduct a
special event on the Village's land or public right- of-way, the applicant must
enter into a license agreement with the Village. The Village's license
agreement requires the applicant to agree to hold harmless and indemnification
provisions, and submit to the Village evidence of general liability insurance
that names the Village and its appointed and elected officials, employees,
agents, attorneys, engineers and volunteers (Village affiliates) as named
additional insureds and insuring the Village and its affiliates against any
liability resulting from the use of the Village's land or public right-of-way.
Minimum coverage shall be two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per occurrence
for general liability insurance and the policy shall have no less than an A
rating by the most recent "A.M. Best Insurance Rating Guide".
      14.   Revocation: A Class L liquor license issued to an applicant for one
or more special events in a calendar year may be revoked by action of the
Village Board at any time with thirty (30) days' written notice or immediately
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner in the event of a violation of the
liquor control ordinance or any of the provisions of the ordinance creating the
liquor license for issuance to the applicant.
      15.   Charges For Additional Municipal Services: The Village reserves the
right to charge the applicant for special Municipal services, such as police,
fire, emergency medical services, and public works personnel and services that
are necessary to protect the health, welfare and safety of the public and those
individuals who attend the special event.
      16.   Notification Of Application: After filing an application for a
Class L liquor license and receiving a Local Liquor Control Commission meeting
date from the Village, the applicant will send written notice by first class
United States mail of the Local Liquor Control Commission meeting to be held to
consider the application to those property addresses located within one hundred
feet (100') of the location of the proposed special event. The notice shall
contain the date, time and place of the Local Liquor Control Commission meeting
and a brief description of the application. A copy of the agenda for the Local
Liquor Control Commission meeting shall be a sufficient notice. At least ten
(10) calendar days prior to the meeting date, the notices shall be mailed in
envelopes addressed to those persons and their property addresses contained in
the Village's water billing account information who are located within one
hundred feet (100') of the proposed special event location. An affidavit that
attests to the completion of the mailing of the notice shall be filed by the
applicant with the Village Manager at or prior to the meeting. The applicant,
for renewal of a special event liquor license, is required to prepare, send out
and comply with the notice, mailing and affidavit requirements set forth above,
unless the Local Liquor Control Commissioner decides that the only
consideration of the application will be before the Village Board; in such
case, the notice shall contain the date, time and place of the Village Board
meeting and a brief description of the application.
   M.   CLASS M LICENSE: Theater License; Beer, Wine And Specialty Drinks Only:
A Class M liquor license shall authorize the retail sale and consumption of
beer, wine and specialty drinks only within the licensed premises for which the
principal use of the premises is a live theatrical or stage performance
theater. The licensed premises may include a patio area or lawn area that is
adjacent to the principal structure on the same lot. The sale of alcoholic
liquor shall be in individual servings only for immediate consumption within
the licensed premises. For the purposes of this Section, specialty drinks shall
mean drinks which contain spirits and are available for sale as part of a
special event or live theatrical or stage performance (for example, margaritas
served as part of a cantina night event).
A Class M liquor license shall be subject to all of the following conditions
and such other appropriate conditions required by the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of
such a liquor license:
      1.   Theater Event With Alcohol Service And Consumption; Notice: At least
ten (10) days prior to any event held by the liquor licensee where alcohol will
be served and consumed, the liquor licensee shall provide the Department of Law
Enforcement Services with information about the event, including the date,
time, location and parameters of the area where alcohol will be served and
consumed (referred to as the "licensed premises").
      2.   Consumption Restricted To Premises: Consumption of beer, wine and
specialty drinks is restricted to the licensed premises. The sale or service of
beer, wine and specialty drinks shall be from either a service bar or a patron
bar. The patron bar shall not have seats or stools for patrons at which to sit.
      3.   Pitchers Prohibited: Beer, wine , and specialty drinks shall not be
sold in pitchers.
      4.   Package Sales Prohibited: No package sales shall be permitted. The
sale of kegs or other alcoholic beverages (e.g., wine coolers, spirits,
prepared mixed drinks, etc.) is prohibited.
      5.   Open Beverages Outside The Premises Prohibited: Patrons are
prohibited from taking any opened alcoholic beverage outside of the licensed
premises.
      6.   Advertising: There shall be no banners, posters, signs, or
advertising of any kind posted or maintained in any of the exterior windows of
or on the exterior of the theater building that: a) advertise, relate to or
depict any alcoholic liquor or manufacturer, distributor, brand, slogan or logo
(including the generic term "liquor"); or b) announce, advertise, depict or
relate to any alcoholic liquor sale; except that the theater may mention in its
brochures, menus or other media based advertising the availability of beer,
wine and specialty drinks and the theater may post such a brochure or menu in a
decorative posting box (not to exceed 12 square feet in size) affixed to the
exterior of the building located adjacent to the entrance door.
      7.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation regarding a class M
liquor license shall be as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      8.   BASSET Training: The licensee, on site manager(s), volunteers and
all waitstaff shall take and successfully complete a beverage alcohol sellers
and servers education and training (BASSET) program that has been certified by
the state of Illinois and shall obtain from the village a current copy of the
liquor license ordinance. A copy of the BASSET course completion certificate(s)
for each such person shall be made available at all times at the licensed
premises for inspection by the local liquor commissioner, or his or her
designee.
      9.   Events Oriented For Children: No sale of beer, wine and specialty
drinks is permitted during any theater events primarily oriented for children.
      10.   Insurance: The liquor licensee shall furnish the village with a
certificate or certificates of insurance establishing a minimum of a one
million dollar ($1,000,000.00) policy limit for both general liability and
dramshop coverage. The village shall be named as an additional party insured on
said certificate(s).
      11.   State Liquor License: The applicant shall be required to obtain a
valid state liquor license that relates to this class M liquor license.
      12.   Sales Or Service Limitation Per Person: No more than two (2)
servings of alcoholic liquor shall be sold to any person during each retail
sales transaction or dispensed to any person at one time.
      13.   Outdoor Alcohol Consumption Area; Notice: At least ten (10) days
prior to any event held by the liquor licensee where alcohol will be served and
consumed, the liquor licensee shall provide the department of law enforcement
services with information about the event and the licensed premises, including
the date, time, location and parameters of the area where alcohol will be
served and consumed.
      14.   Outdoor Alcohol Consumption Area; Security: Any outdoor area where
alcoholic liquor is served and consumed shall be part of the licensed premises
and shall have designated entrance and exit points for patrons, and minors
shall be prohibited from entering into this area, unless accompanied by an
adult. During hours of operation, such an outdoor area shall have at least one
person over the age of twenty one (21) posted at each designated entrance and
exit point to check state or government issued identification of patrons.
      15.   Compliance With Other Laws: The liquor licensee shall comply with
state and village fire and health code regulations, accessibility laws and
regulations, and all other applicable provisions of federal, state or county
laws and this code.
      16.   Revocation: A class M liquor license may be revoked by action of
the village board at any time with thirty (30) days' written notice or
immediately by the local liquor control commissioner in the event of a
violation of the liquor control ordinance or any of the provisions of the
ordinance creating the liquor license for issuance to the applicant.
      17.   Charges For Additional Municipal Services: The village reserves the
right to charge the liquor licensee for special municipal services, such as
police, fire and public works personnel and services, that are necessary to
protect the health, welfare and safety of the public and those individuals who
attend any events at the licensed premises.
   N.   CLASS N LICENSE: Caterer's License: It shall be unlawful for any
caterer to sell, offer for sale, or provide any alcoholic liquor within the
village corporate limits, unless such caterer has a current, valid caterer's
liquor license. A class N license permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
only in conjunction with the service of food. The sale of alcoholic liquor
shall be in individual servings only for immediate consumption within the
licensed premises owned by someone other than the licensee, provided that the
licensee has been hired to serve food to a group of people attending the
catered event by invitation or by ticket. The sale or service of alcoholic
liquor shall be from either a service bar or a patron bar. The patron bar shall
not have seats or stools for patrons at which to sit.
A class N liquor license shall be subject to all of the following conditions
and such other appropriate conditions required by the president and board of
trustees of the village in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of
such a liquor license:
      1.   Catered Event With Alcohol Service And Consumption; Notice: At least
ten (10) days prior to any event held by the liquor licensee within the
village, the liquor licensee shall provide the department of law enforcement
services with information about the event, including the date, time, location
and parameters of the area where alcohol will be served and consumed (referred
to as the "licensed premises").
      2.   Consumption Restricted To Premises: Consumption of alcoholic liquor
is restricted to the licensed premises.
      3.   Package Sales: Package sales are allowed by the liquor licensee
during a catered event (e.g., wine tasting with food service), but only if the
liquor licensee also holds a class G (fine wine, premium spirits, premium beer
and gourmet food store license; premium spirits, premium beer and wine only)
liquor license or another village liquor license that allows package sales. For
all orders and sales of package liquor that originate or are processed at a
catered event within the village, the location of the "sale at retail" for
purposes of payment of all applicable retail and occupation sales taxes (e.g.,
Illinois Retailers' Occupation Tax Act 8 ) shall be the Village of Western
Springs.
      4.   Kegs Or Pitchers Prohibited: The sale of beer, wine, spirits or
other alcoholic beverages (e.g., wine coolers, spirits, prepared mixed drinks,
etc.) in kegs or pitchers is prohibited.
      5.   Open Beverages Outside The Premises Prohibited: Patrons are
prohibited from taking any opened alcoholic beverage outside of the licensed
premises.
      6.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation regarding a Class N
liquor license shall be as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      7.   BASSET Training: All persons who sell or serve alcoholic liquor or
handle alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises shall take and successfully
complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training (BASSET)
Program that has been certified by the State of Illinois. A copy of the BASSET
course completion certificate(s) for each such person shall be made available
at all times at the licensed premises for inspection by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, or his or her designee.
      8.   Sales Or Service Limitation Per Person: No more than two (2)
servings of alcoholic liquor shall be sold to any person during each retail
sales transaction or dispensed to any person at one time.
      9.   Outdoor Alcohol Consumption Area; Notice: At least ten (10) days
prior to any event held by the liquor licensee where alcohol will be served and
consumed, the liquor licensee shall provide the Department of Law Enforcement
Services with information about the event and the licensed premises, including
the date, time, location and parameters of the area where alcohol will be
served and consumed.
      10.   Security; Outdoor Alcohol Consumption Area: Any outdoor catered
event area where alcoholic liquor is served and consumed shall be part of the
licensed premises and shall have designated entrance and exit points for
patrons, and minors shall be prohibited from entering into this area, unless
accompanied by an adult. During hours of operation, such an outdoor catered
event area shall have at least one person over the age of twenty one (21)
posted at each designated entrance and exit point to check State or government
issued identification of patrons.
      11.   Compliance With Other Laws: The liquor licensee shall comply with
State and Village Fire and Health Code regulations, accessibility laws and
regulations, and all other applicable provisions of Federal, State or County
law and this Code.
      12.   Insurance: The liquor licensee shall furnish the Village with a
certificate or certificates of insurance establishing a minimum of a one
million dollar ($1,000,000.00) policy limit for both general liability and
dramshop coverage. The Village shall be named as an additional party insured on
said certificate(s).
      13.   State Liquor License: The applicant shall be required to obtain a
valid State liquor license that relates to this Class N liquor license.
      14.   Compliance With Other Regulations: The operation of the catered
event shall comply with State and Village Fire and Health Code regulations,
accessibility laws and regulations, and all other applicable provisions of
Federal, State or County laws and this Code.
      15.   Revocation: A Class N liquor license may be revoked by action of
the Village Board at any time with thirty (30) days' written notice or
immediately by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner in the event of a
violation of the liquor control ordinance or any of the provisions of the
ordinance creating the liquor license for issuance to the applicant.
      16.   Charges For Additional Municipal Services: The Village reserves the
right to charge the liquor licensee for special Municipal services, such as
police, fire and public works personnel and services, that are necessary to
protect the health, welfare and safety of the public and those individuals who
attend any events at the licensed premises.
   O.   CLASS O LICENSE: Craft Beer, Wine, And Spirits Establishment License
(On-Site Consumption And Packaged Sales): A Class O liquor license shall
authorize the storage and retail sale of craft spirits, craft beer, domestic
beer and wine (including cider, mead and other similar beverages) in their
original containers or half (1/2) or full growlers/howlers, and the retail
sale, service and on-site consumption of craft beer, wine and craft spirits or
tastings of craft beer, wine and craft spirits in limited quantities as part of
a promotional retail sale offered by or sponsored by the licensee during the
authorized hours of operation. Single bottles or cans may also be sold for on-
site consumption only. The licensee may also conduct tasting sessions at
preregistered events or classes when the store is closed to the general public.
Tastings, including the preregistered events or classes, shall be conducted
only in the same room, and same area, as the display of craft beer, wine and
craft spirits and shall occur only during the authorized hours of operation.
   For purposes of this Class O liquor license, "Craft Beer, Wine, and Spirits
Establishment License (on-site consumption and packaged sales)" is defined as
any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public
as a place that offers craft spirits, wine and craft beer for retail, packaged
sale and on-site consumption. A "craft beer" includes microbrewed beer brands,
microbrew styled beer brands and imported beer brands, but shall not include
mass produced domestic beer brands. "Craft spirits" means any spirit that has a
retail cost of not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) per bottle. "Mass
produced, domestic beer" means beer brands that are brewed in the United States
and available nationwide and are not marketed as craft beer. Any retail
establishments, including, but not limited to, any establishment commonly
understood to be a pharmacy, or a pantry, or a convenience food mart, or any
establishment also in the business of selling gasoline, engaged principally in
the sale of canned goods; dry goods such as tea, sugar, flour, cereals, and the
like; beverages, such as milk, juices, soda pop and water; fresh fruits and
vegetables; fresh and prepared meats, fish, poultry; and typical household
goods are not eligible for a Class O liquor license.
   A Class O liquor license shall be subject to all of the following conditions
and such other appropriate conditions required by the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of
such a liquor license:
      1.   Container And Package Specifications: The sale of kegs and single
cans or bottles or other containers of beer, wine or other alcoholic beverages
(for example, wine coolers, prepared mixed alcoholic beverages, and the like)
for off-site consumption is prohibited, except as allowed in this subsection.
The sale of single cans or bottles or other containers of craft beer or wine or
craft spirits in glass, metal or protective corrugated fiberboard box
containers that are at least three hundred seventy five milliliters (375 mL) in
size is allowed. The sale of any alcoholic liquor packaged for sale in smaller
than customary containers (for example, "airline bottles", flasks, and the
like) is prohibited. The sale of single cans or bottles or other containers of
craft beer or wine or craft spirits or other alcoholic beverages (for example,
wine coolers, prepared mixed alcoholic beverages, and the like) in glass, metal
or protective corrugated fiberboard box containers that are at least three
hundred fifty milliliters (350 mL) in size, but less than three hundred seventy
five milliliters (375 mL) in size, is allowed, but only in pre-packaged four
(4) packs, six (6) packs or twelve (12) packs or the licensee may allow
customers to mix alcoholic beverage brands that are at least three hundred
fifty milliliters (350 mL) in size to create their own four (4) packs or six
(6) packs for off-site consumption only. Mass produced, domestic beer shall be
available for retail package sales only, shall be located in the coolers in six
(6) pack or twelve (12) pack containers only and shall not occupy more than ten
(10%) percent of the cooler space allocated for retail beer sales. In the event
the size of the container of alcoholic liquor is questioned, the Local Liquor
Commissioner, in his or her discretion, based on the totality of the
circumstances, shall determine whether the container meets the standards set
forth in this subsection.
      2.   Service Counter Or Patron Bar: A service counter or patron bar shall
be allowed for purposes of retail sale, service and on-site consumption of
craft beer, wine and craft spirits or the conducting tastings of craft beer,
wine or craft spirits as defined in subsection G3 of this section. The amount
of customer seating at the service counter/patron bar shall be subject to the
review and recommendation of the Liquor Commissioner and approval of the
Village Board ordinance granting the liquor license.
      3.   On-Site Consumption; Conduct Of Tastings: Craft beer, wine and craft
spirits may be sold, given away or offered for sale and consumed on-site within
the licensed premises only during the authorized hours of operation. The
licensee may conduct or sponsor tasting sessions of craft beer, wine and craft
spirits at preregistered events or classes when the store is closed to the
general public, but only during the authorized hours of operation. In addition,
the licensee may provide, at no charge, samples of craft beer, wine and craft
spirits currently offered for sale served in limited quantities in a cup or
glass for consumption within the licensed premises as part of a promotional
retail sale offered by or sponsored by the licensee during the authorized hours
of operation. A per person charge may be collected by the licensee for
attendance at a tasting session (a preregistered event or class) or the samples
of craft beer, wine and craft spirits beer may be given away as part of such a
tasting. All tastings shall be conducted only in the same room, and same area,
as the liquor display area and shall occur only during the authorized hours of
operation. Customers shall not be allowed to leave the licensed premises with
an open bottle, container, cup or glass of craft beer, wine and craft spirits.
There shall be no tastings of mass produced, domestic beer.
      4.   Liquor Display Areas: The liquor display area set aside for craft
beer, wine and craft spirits within the store shall not violate any applicable
Building and Life Safety Codes. There shall be no floor displays advertising
mass produced, domestic beer or stacks of mass produced, domestic beer on the
floor. The proposed licensee shall submit an accurate floor plan of the store
which includes the location of, dimensions of, and a description of the
improvements that constitute the proposed alcoholic liquor display area and the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, in consultation with the Director of
Community Development, shall approve the floor plan.
      5.   Prohibited: No tobacco products or lottery tickets shall be offered
for sale or sold within the store.
      6.   Sign Regulations: There shall be no banners, posters, signs, or
advertising of any kind posted or maintained in any of the exterior windows of
or on the exterior of the building that: a) advertise, relate to or depict any
alcoholic liquor or manufacturer, distributor, brand, slogan or logo (including
the generic term "liquor"); or b) announce, advertise, depict or relate to any
alcoholic liquor sale or special event.
      7.   Music: Indoor live music is allowed within the licensed premises
during the permitted hours of operation set forth in section
4-1-13 of this chapter, subject to applicable Village noise regulations.
      8.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation regarding a Class O
liquor license shall be as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      9.   BASSET Certification Required: The craft beer, wine, and spirits
establishment owner, each employee of the store and any other person who sells
or serves craft beer, spirits and wine to a patron or handles alcoholic liquor
on the licensed premises must take and successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol
Sellers and Servers Education and Training (BASSET) Program that has been
certified by the State of Illinois. A copy of the BASSET course completion
certificate(s) for the aforementioned persons shall be made available at all
times at the licensed premises for inspection by the Village Manager, or his or
her designee.
      10.   Separate Cash Registers Or Sales Tracking System Required: In the
case of a licensee that has received a Class O liquor license and then
petitions for and receives one of the full service or limited service
restaurant liquor licenses, the licensee shall operate separate cash registers
or a sales tracking system to record all retail transactions relative to each
specific liquor license.
      11.   Availability Of Food: Pre-prepared and delivered foods shall be
permitted and encouraged in the establishment for the enjoyment of patrons.
Establishment owners shall endeavor to create business relationships with local
and regional restaurants, and food delivery services. All food which is sold or
prepared within the establishment is subject to all applicable Health
Regulations as enforced by the Village of Western Springs, Cook County, and the
State of Illinois.
   P.   CLASS P LICENSE: Carry-out Restaurant License; Beer And Wine Only;
Package Sales: A Class P liquor license shall authorize the storage and retail
sale of beer and wine in their original containers in a carry-out restaurant
for off-premise consumption only. Beer and wine shall only be sold in
conjunction with food service/sale at the carry-out restaurant.
   For purposes of this Class P liquor license, a "carry-out restaurant" is
defined in section 4-1-3 of this chapter. Fast food restaurants are not
eligible for a Class P license.
   A Class P liquor license shall be subject to all of the following conditions
and such other appropriate conditions required by the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village in an ordinance approving the creation and issuance of
such a liquor license:
      1.   Container And Package Specifications: The sale of kegs and single
cans or bottles or other containers of beer, wine or other alcoholic beverages
(e.g., wine coolers, etc.) is prohibited, except as allowed in this subsection.
The sale of single cans or bottles or other containers of beer or wine in metal
or protective corrugated fiberboard box containers that are at least three
hundred seventy five milliliters (375 mL) in size is allowed. The sale of
single cans or bottles or other containers of beer or wine or other alcoholic
beverages (e.g., wine coolers, etc.) in glass, metal or protective corrugated
fiberboard box containers that are at least three hundred fifty milliliters
(350 mL) in size, but less than three hundred seventy five milliliters (375 mL)
in size, is allowed, but only in pre-packaged 4-packs, 6-packs or 12-packs or
the licensee may allow customers to mix alcoholic beverage brands that are at
least three hundred fifty milliliters (350 mL) in size to create their own 4-
packs or 6-packs for off-site consumption only. In the event the size of the
container of alcoholic liquor is questioned, the Local Liquor Commissioner, in
his or her discretion, based on the totality of the circumstances, shall
determine whether the container meets the standards set forth in this
subsection. Where the licensee also holds an additional Village liquor license
that allows for the on-site consumption of alcoholic beverages (e.g., a
restaurant liquor license or an outdoor liquor cafe license), the licensee may
sell at retail single servings of alcoholic beverages in original containers
(e.g., single bottles, cans or protective corrugated fiberboard boxes) that are
at least three hundred fifty milliliters (350 mL) in size for consumption on
the licensed premises in compliance with the other Village liquor license that
allows for the on-site consumption of alcoholic beverages.
      2.   No billiard and/or pool tables or any other "mechanical/electrical
amusement device", as defined and regulated in section
3-4-2 of this Code, shall be permitted on the licensed premises, except
internet music stations, jukeboxes and video game devices/machines shall be
permitted provided the licensee complies with the Village mechanical/electrical
amusement device licensing requirements. Video gaming terminals, as regulated
by the Illinois Video Gaming Act, are prohibited on the licensed premises.
      3.   Prohibited: No tobacco products or lottery tickets shall be offered
for sale or sold within the establishment.
      4.   There shall be no banners, posters, signs, or advertising of any
kind posted or maintained in any of the exterior windows of or on the exterior
of the establishment nor shall such items be visible from any place or point
outside of the establishment that: a) advertise, relate to or depict beer or
wine or any alcoholic liquor or manufacturer, distributor, brand, slogan or
logo (including the generic term "liquor"); or b) announce, advertise, depict
or relate to any beer, wine, or alcoholic liquor sale or special event.
      5.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation regarding a Class P
liquor license shall be as set forth in section
4-1-13, "Hours Of Operation", of this chapter.
      6.   BASSET Certification Required: All Class P liquor licensees shall be
required to have any on site owner/manager and all employees and any other
person(s) who may, as a part of their job, sell alcoholic liquor to a customer,
serve alcoholic liquor to any person on the licensed premises or handle
alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises, take and successfully complete a
Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training (BASSET) Program
that has been certified by the State of Illinois. Once the initial training
certification expires, a renewal of the BASSET training certification is
required. A copy of the current BASSET course completion certificate(s) for the
on site owner/manager, his/her/its employees and the above mentioned other
person(s) shall be made available at all times at the licensed premises for
inspection by the Village Manager, or his or her designee.
   Q.   CLASS Q LICENSE: Wine Establishment License (Wine Tasting And Retail
Wine Sales By The Bottle; On-Site Consumption): A Class Q liquor license shall
authorize the storage and retail sale of wine in its original containers and
the retail sale, service and on-site consumption of wine or tastings of wine in
limited quantities as part of promotional offerings or retail sales offered by
or sponsored by the licensee during authorized hours of operation, and the
retail sales of gift baskets and gift boxes that include one or more wine
bottles. The licensee may also conduct tasting sessions at preregistered events
or classes. Tastings, including the preregistered events or classes, shall be
conducted only in the same room, and the same area, as the display of wine and
shall occur only during authorized hours of operation.
      For purposes of this Class Q liquor license, a “Wine Establishment
License (On-Site Consumption And Packaged Sales)” is defined as any public
place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place
that offers wine for retail, packaged sale and on-site consumption of wine in
limited quantities as part of promotional offerings or retail sales offered by
or sponsored by the licensee during authorized hours of operation, and the
retail sales of gift baskets and gift boxes that include one or more wine
bottles. Any retail establishments, including but not limited to any
establishment commonly understood to be a pharmacy, or a pantry, or a
convenience food mart, or any establishment also in the business of selling
gasoline, engaged principally in the sale of canned goods; dry goods such as
tea, sugar, flour, cereals, and the like; beverages, such as milk, juices, soda
pop and water; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh and prepared meats, fish,
poultry; and typical household goods are not eligible for a Class Q liquor
license.
      A Class Q liquor license shall be subject to all of the following
conditions and such other appropriate conditions required by the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village in an Ordinance approving the creation and
issuance of such liquor license:
      1.   Container and Package Specifications: The sale of single bottles for
off-site consumption is prohibited, except as allowed in this subsection. The
sale of single bottles that are at least 750 millimeters in size is allowed.
The sale of any alcoholic liquor packaged for sale in smaller than customary
containers (for example, “airline bottles”, flasks, and the like) is
prohibited. In the event the size of the container of alcoholic liquor is
questioned, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, in their discretion, based
upon the totality of the circumstances, shall determine whether the container
meets the standards set forth in this subsection.
      2.   Service Counter or Patron Bar: A service counter or patron bar shall
be allowed for purposes of retail sale, service and on-site consumption of wine
or the conducting of tastings of wine as defined in subsection G.3. of this
section. The amount of customer seating at the service counter/patron bar shall
be subject to review and recommendation of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and approval of the Village ordinance granting the liquor license.
      3.   On-Site Consumption; Conduct of Tastings: Wine may be sold, given
away or offered for sale and consumed on-site within the licensed premises only
during the authorized hours of operation. The licensee may conduct or sponsor
tasting sessions of wine at preregistered events or classes when the licensed
premises is closed to the general public, but only during the authorized hours
of operation. In addition, the licensee may provide, for a fee or at no charge,
samples of wine currently offered for sale served in limited quantities in a
cup or glass for consumption within the licensed premises as part of
promotional offerings or retail sales offered by or sponsored by the licensee
during the authorized hours of operation. A per-person charge may be collected
by the licensee for attendance at a tasting session (a preregistered event or
class) or the samples of wine may be given away as part of such tasting. All
tastings shall be conducted only in the same room, and the same area, as the
liquor display area and shall occur only during authorized hours of operation.
Customers shall not be allowed to leave the licensed premises with an open
bottle, container, cup or glass of wine.
      4.   Liquor Display Areas: The liquor display area set aside for wine
within the licensed premises shall not violate any applicable Building and Life
Safety Codes. The proposed licensee shall submit an accurate floor plan of the
licensed premises which includes the location of, dimensions of, and a
description of the improvements that constitute the proposed alcoholic liquor
display area, and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, in consultation with
the Director of Community Development, shall approve the floor plan.
      5.   Prohibited: No tobacco products or lottery tickets shall be offered
for sale or sold within the licensed premises.
      6.   Sign Regulations: There shall be no banners, posters, signs, or
advertising of any kind posted or maintained in any of the exterior windows of
or on the exterior of the building that: a) advertise, relate to or depict any
alcoholic liquor or manufacturer, distributor, brand, slogan or logo (including
the generic term “liquor”); or b) announce, advertise, depict or relate to any
alcoholic liquor sale or special event.
      7.   Music: Indoor live music is allowed within the licensed premises
during the permitted hours of operation, as set forth in Section
4-1-13, “Hours of Operation”, of this Chapter, subject to applicable Village
noise regulations.
      8.   Hours of Operation: The hours of operation regarding a Class Q
liquor license shall be as set forth in Section
4-1-13, “Hours of Operation”, of this Chapter.
      9.   BASSET Certification Required: The wine establishment owner, each
employee of the licensed premises, and any other person who sells or serves
wine to a patron or handles alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises must take
and successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and
Training (BASSET) Program that has been certified by the State of Illinois. A
copy of the BASSET course completion certificate(s) for the aforementioned
persons shall be made available at all times at the licensed premises for
inspection by the Village Manager, or their designee.
      10.   Separate Cash Registers or Sales Tracking System Required: In the
case of a licensee that has received a Class Q liquor license and then
petitions for and receives one of the full service or limited service
restaurant liquor licenses, the licensee shall operate separate cash registers
or a sales tracking system to record all retail transactions relative to each
specific liquor license.
      11.   Availability of Food: Pre-prepared and delivered food shall be
permitted and encouraged in the licensed premises for the enjoyment of the
patrons. Licensed premises owners shall endeavor to create business
relationships with local and regional restaurants and food delivery services.
All food which is sold or prepared within the licensed premises is subject to
all applicable Health Regulations as enforced by the Village of Western
Springs, Cook County, and the State of Illinois.
   R.   CLASS R LICENSE: Convenience Retail License (Packaged Beer and Wine
Only): A Class R liquor license shall authorize the storage and retail sale of
alcoholic liquor commonly known as beer and wine only, in their original
containers and packaging only, not for consumption on the premises where sold,
as an adjunct to a "Convenience Retail Establishment", as defined below. Such
retail sale of beer and wine shall occur only during authorized hours of
operation.
      For purposes of this Class R liquor license, a "Convenience Retail
Establishment" is defined as any retail establishment commonly understood to be
a pharmacy, or a pantry, or a convenience food mart, offering for sale a
limited line of groceries and/or household items intended for the convenience
of the neighborhood.
      A Class R liquor license shall be subject to all of the following
conditions and such other appropriate conditions required by the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village in an Ordinance approving the creation and
issuance of such liquor license:
      1.   Container and Package Specifications: The sale of single bottles for
offsite consumption is prohibited, except as allowed in this subsection. The
sale of any alcoholic liquor packaged for sale in smaller than customary
containers (for example, "airline bottles", flasks, and the like) is
prohibited. The sale of single cans or bottles or other containers of beer or
wine in glass, metal or protective corrugated fiberboard box containers that
are at least three hundred fifty milliliters (350 ml) in size, but less than
three hundred seventy-five milliliters (375 ml) in size, is allowed, but only
in pre-packaged four (4) packs, six (6) packs or twelve (12) packs, or the
licensee may allow customers to mix alcoholic beverage brands that are at least
three hundred fifty milliliters (350 ml) in size to create their own 4-packs or
6-packs for off-site consumption only. In the event the size of the container
of alcoholic liquor is questioned, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, in
their discretion, based upon the totality of the circumstances, shall determine
whether the container meets the standards set forth in this subsection.
      2.   Liquor Display Areas: The liquor display area set aside for beer and
wine within the licensed premises shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the
floor area of the Convenience Retail Establishment. The liquor display area set
aside for beer and wine within the licensed premises shall not violate any
applicable Building and Life Safety Codes. The proposed licensee shall submit
an accurate floor plan of the licensed premises, which includes the location
of, dimensions of, and a description of the improvements that constitute the
proposed beer and wine display area, and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
in consultation with the Director of Community Development, shall approve the
floor plan.
      3.   Sign Regulations: There shall be no banners, posters, signs, or
advertising of any kind posted or maintained in any of the exterior windows of
or on the exterior of the building that: a) advertise, relate to or depict any
alcoholic liquor or manufacturer, distributor, brand, slogan or logo (including
the generic term "liquor"); or b) announce, advertise, depict or relate to any
alcoholic liquor sale or special event.
      4.   Hours of Operation: The hours of operation regarding a Class R
liquor license shall be as set forth in Section 4-1-13, "Hours of Operation",
of this Chapter.
      5.   BASSET Certification Required: The Convenience Retail Establishment
owner, each employee of the licensed premises, and any other person who sells
beer or wine to a patron or handles alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises,
must take and successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers
Education and Training (BASSET) Program that has been certified by the State of
Illinois. A copy of the BASSET course completion certificate(s) for the
aforementioned persons shall be made available at all times at the licensed
premises for inspection by the Village Manager, or their designee.
(Ord. 01-2173, 9-24-2001; amd. Ord. 04-2309, 8-23-2004; Ord. 08-2509, 10-27-
2008; Ord. 09-2531, 3-23-2009; Ord. 10-2579, 4-26-2010; Ord. 10-2579, 4-26-
2010; Ord. 10-2580, 4-26-2010; Ord. 11-2622, 3-28-2011; Ord. 11-2651, 11-21-
2011; Ord. 12-2682, 6-11-2012; Ord. 14-2739, 2-24-2014; Ord. 14-2755, 5-19-
2014; Ord. 14-2756, 5-19-2014; Ord. 16-2850, 11-28-2016; Ord. 17-2875, 3-27-
2017; Ord. 17-2905, 11-27-2017; Ord. 20-2997, 2-24-2020; Ord. 20-2999, 3-16-
2020; Ord. 20-3027, 12-21-2020; Ord. 22-3117, 1-23-2023; Ord. 24-3185, 4-22-
2024; Ord. 24-3200, 7-15-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
2 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
3 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
4 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-33.
6 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
7 2. 235 ILCS 5/6-33.
8 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
4-1-10: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   Number Of Liquor Licenses: The number of licenses by classification
shall be as follows:
      1.   Class A: A Class A liquor license (full service restaurant with a
service bar) has been created for issuance to each person or entity listed
below: None.
      2.   Class B: A Class B liquor license (full service restaurant with a
patron bar) has been created for issuance to each person or entity listed
below:
         a.   Davanti’s Western Springs, LLC, DBA Davanti Enoteca for a
restaurant located at Unit 100 in the 800 Hillgrove Avenue Building, 800
Hillgrove Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
         b.   Virant Restaurants, Inc., DBA Vie Petite for a restaurant located
at 909 Burlington Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
         c.   Salerno’s Western Springs, Inc., DBA Salerno Pizzeria & R Bar for
a restaurant located at 821 Burlington Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
         d.   Hillgrove Tap, LLC, DBA Hillgrove Tap for a restaurant located at
Unit 101, Unit 102 and Unit 103 in the 800 Hillgrove Avenue Building, 800
Hillgrove Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
         e.   Guac N Tacos, LLC, DBA Guac N Tacos for a restaurant located at
Unit 104 in the 800 Hillgrove Avenue Building located at 800 Hillgrove Avenue,
Western Springs, Illinois.
         f.   Ella's Italian Pub, LLC d/b/a Ella's Italian Pub for a restaurant
located at 4471 Lawn Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
      3.   Class C: A Class C liquor license (full service restaurant; beer and
wine only; no patron bar or service bar) has been created for issuance to each
person or entity listed below: None.
      4.   Class D: A Class D liquor license (limited service restaurant; beer
and wine only; no patron bar or service bar) has been created for issuance to
each person or entity listed below:
         a.   1918 Winter Street Illinois, LLC, DBA Mariano’s #8529 located at
Garden Market Shopping Center at the southwest corner of 47th Street and Willow
Springs Road/Gilbert Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
      5.   Class E: A Class E liquor license (supermarket) has been created for
issuance to each person or entity listed below:
         a.   1918 Winter Street Illinois, LLC, DBA Mariano’s #8529 for its
Garden Market Shopping Center supermarket located at the southwest corner of
47th Street and Willow Springs Road/Gilbert Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
      6.   Class F: A Class F liquor license (culinary school; beer and wine
only; no patron bar or service bar) has been created for issuance to each
person or entity listed below: None.
      7.   Class G: One Class G liquor license (fine wine, premium spirits,
beer and gourmet food store license; premium spirits, beer and wine only) has
been created for issuance to each person or entity listed below:
         a.   Virant Restaurants, Inc., DBA Vie for a fine wine, premium
spirits, beer and gourmet food store within the existing restaurant located at
909 Burlington Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
         b.   Hillgrove Tap, LLC, DBA Hillgrove Tap for a fine wine, premium
spirits, beer and gourmet food store within a restaurant located at Unit 101,
Unit 102 and Unit 103 in the 800 Hillgrove Avenue Building, 800 Hillgrove
Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
         c.   Salerno’s Western Springs, Inc., DBA Salerno Pizzeria for a fine
wine, premium spirits, beer and gourmet food store located at 821 Burlington
Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
      8.   Class H: A Class H liquor license (outdoor liquor café) has been
created for issuance to each person or entity listed below:
         a.   Davanti’s Western Springs, LLC, DBA Davanti Enoteca for an
outdoor liquor café located at Unit 100 in the 800 Hillgrove Avenue, Western
Springs, Illinois property.
         b.   Hillgrove Tap, LLC, DBA Hillgrove Tap for an outdoor liquor café
located at Unit 101, Unit 102 and Unit 103 in the 800 Hillgrove Avenue
Building, 800 Hillgrove Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
         c.   Salerno’s Western Springs, Inc., DBA Salerno Pizzeria & R Bar for
an outdoor liquor café located at 821 Burlington Avenue, Western Springs,
Illinois.
         d.   Guac N Tacos, LLC, DBA Guac N Tacos for a restaurant located
adjacent to Unit 104 in the 800 Hillgrove Avenue Building located at 800
Hillgrove Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
         e.   Virant Restaurants, Inc., DBA Petite Vie for a restaurant located
at 909 Burlington Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
         f.   Ella's Italian Pub, LLC d/b/a Ella's Italian Pub for an outdoor
liquor café located at 4471 Lawn Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
         g.   Daydream Coffee Company, d/b/a The Opry for the operation of an
outdoor liquor cafe located on a portion of the private rear lot area of 4354
Johnson Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
       9.   Class I Liquor License (Special Events On Property Owned Or Leased
By A Not For Profit Organization): The number of Class I liquor licenses issued
by the Village shall be determined by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
The Village Board, however, must first approve an ordinance creating a Class I
liquor license prior to the issuance of a Class I liquor license to an
applicant by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      10.   Class J Liquor License (Special Events On Village Owned Property;
Beer, Wine, And Specialty Drinks Only): The number of Class J liquor licenses
issued by the Village shall be determined by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. The Village Board, however, must first approve an ordinance
creating a Class J liquor license prior to the issuance of a Class J liquor
license to an applicant by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      11.   Class K: A Class K liquor license (BYOB - corkage license; beer and
wine only) has been created for issuance to each person or entity listed below:
None.
      12.   Class L Liquor License (Limited Special Event License; Tastings Of
Beer And Wine And Beer And Wine Package Sales Only): The number of Class L
liquor licenses issued by the Village will be determined by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner. The Village Board, however, must first approve an
ordinance creating a Class L liquor license prior to the issuance of a Class L
liquor license to an applicant by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      13.   Class M Liquor License (Theater License; Beer, Wine And Specialty
Drinks Only): One (1) Class M liquor license has been created for issuance to
each person or entity listed below:
         a.   Theatre of Western Springs, 4384 Hampton Avenue, Western Springs,
Illinois.
      14.   Class N Liquor License (Caterer’s License): One (1) Class N liquor
license has been created for issuance to each person or entity listed below:
         a.   Salerno’s Western Springs, Inc., DBA Salerno Pizzeria & R Bar for
a restaurant located at 821 Burlington Avenue, Western Springs, Illinois.
      15.   Class O Liquor Licenses: One (1) liquor license is created for
issuance to each person or entity listed below:
         a.   Daydream Coffee Company, DBA The Opry for a craft beer, wine and
spirits store and food and coffee shop located at 4354 Johnson Avenue, Western
Springs, Illinois.
         b.   Clever Drinker LLC d/b/a The Western Springs Cellar for a craft
beer, wine and spirits store, and food shop, located a 820 Burlington Avenue,
Western Springs, Illinois.
      16.   Class P: One (1) liquor license is created for issuance to each
person or entity listed below: None.
      17.   Class Q: Zero (0) licenses.
      18.   Class R: One (1) liquor license is created for issuance to each
person or entity listed below:
         a.   DBR2 Gas Station LLC d/b/a Mini Food & Gas for a convenience
retail establishment located at 5500 Wolf Road, Western Springs, Illinois.
   B.   Increase Or Decrease In Number: The number of licenses authorized to be
issued for each license class may be increased or decreased from time to time
only by an ordinance duly adopted by the Village President and Board of
Trustees. The number of licenses authorized herein for the above classes shall
remain at the number set forth in subsection A of this section, unless amended
by the Corporate Authorities when they determine that such increase or decrease
in the number of licenses is in the best interests of the Village. When a
liquor license is revoked, it shall automatically reduce the number of
authorized licenses of the particular class by the total number of revoked
licenses in the particular class. In addition, the local commissioner shall
notify, in writing, the village clerk and board of trustees of any revocation
of any authorized license within seven (7) days of such occurrence.
(Ord. 01-2173, 9-24-2001; amd. Ord. 09-2539, 5-18-2009; Ord. 10-2591, 8-30-
2010; Ord. 10-2596, 11-22-2010; Ord. 12-2682, 6-11-2012; Ord. 14-2740, 2-24-
2014; Ord. 14-2741, 2-24-2014; Ord. 14-2758, 6-9-2014; Ord. 15-2807, 6-22-2015;
Ord. 15-2809, 6-22-2015; amd. per correspondence dated 2-17-2016; Ord. 16-2851,
11-28-2016; Ord. 17-2896, 6-26-2017; Ord. 17-2897, 6-26-2017; Ord. 17-2898, 6-
26-2017; Ord. 19-2963, 8-19-2019; Ord. 19-2964, 8-19-2019; Ord. 19-2965, 8-19-
2019; Ord. 19-2966, 8-19-2019; Ord. 19-2976, 10-28-2019; Ord. 19-2977, 10-28-
2019; Ord. 17-2887, 4-10-2017; Ord. 20-2997, 2-24-2020; Ord. 20-2998, 2-24-
2020; Ord. 20-2999, 3-16-2020; Ord. 20-3000, 3-16-2020; Ord. 20-3009, 6-22-
2020; Ord. 20-3027, 12-21-2021; Ord. 20-3028, 12-21-2020; Ord. 22-3099, 9-26-
2022; Ord. 22-3117, 1-23-2023; Ord. 23-3125, 3-20-2023; Ord. 24-3172, 2-26-
2024; Ord. 24-3173, 2-26-2024; Ord. 24-3175, 2-26-2024; Ord. 24-3176, 2-26-
2024; Ord. 24-3186, 4-22-2024; Ord. 24-3200, 7-15-2024; Ord. 24-3201, 7-15-
2024; Ord. 24-3215, 9-23-2024; Ord. 24-3216, 9-23-2024)
4-1-11: INITIAL APPLICATION FEE:
The initial application fee for any liquor license shall be as set forth in
title 3, chapter 3 of this code, payable in advance, and shall not be
refundable. This fee is in addition to the annual liquor license fee. (Ord. 01-
2173, 9-24-2001)
4-1-12: LICENSE TERM; LICENSE FEES; LICENSE FOR PART OF YEAR; PAYMENT:
   A.   License Term: A license hereunder shall be issued for one year from
April 1 to March 31 of the succeeding year, unless otherwise suspended or
revoked in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Any license issued
after April 1 in any year shall expire on March 31 following the date of
issuance. (Ord. 01-2173, 9-24-2001)
   B.   License Fee: The annual fee for a license shall be as set forth in
title 3, chapter 3 of this code, payable in advance on or before April 1 of
each year. When a licensee receives two (2) or more liquor licenses, the liquor
license holder shall be entitled each year to receive one 50-percent discount
applied to the more expensive of the annual liquor license fees, unless either
of the below exceptions applies to the liquor license holder. Exceptions: The
fifty percent (50%) discount does not apply: 1) if the annual fee of one of the
two (2) liquor licenses is less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or 2) if
one of the liquor licenses is the class E (supermarket) liquor license. (Ord.
14-2739, 2-24-2014)
   C.   License For Part Of Year: For any annual liquor license provided by
this chapter and issued prior to October 1 in any calendar year, the full
prescribed annual fee shall be paid. For any such license issued on or after
October 1 in any calendar year and expiring on March 31 following, one-half (1/
2) the prescribed annual fee shall be paid. For any such license issued on or
after January 1 in any calendar year and expiring on March 31 following, one-
fourth (1/4) of the prescribed annual fee shall be paid. There shall be no
refund for unused portion of an annual license stated herein. (Ord. 08-2496, 6-
23-2008)
   D.   Payment: Such license fee shall be paid to the village treasurer.
Failure of any licensee to pay the specified license fee on or before the date
when such fee is payable shall prevent such licensee from selling alcoholic
liquor at retail and the license shall automatically be revoked and the number
of authorized licenses of a particular class shall automatically be reduced by
one. The local commissioner shall notify, in writing, the village clerk and
board of trustees of any revocation of any authorized license within seven (7)
days of such occurrence. (Ord. 01-2173, 9-24-2001)
4-1-13: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Unless otherwise further restricted by an ordinance approved by the corporate
authorities of the village for a particular liquor license applicant or
licensee, the hours of operation shall be as follows:
   A.   Class A License (Full Service Restaurant With A Service Bar): Under a
class A license, a licensee shall be permitted to sell alcoholic liquor only
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, and between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays, except a licensee shall be
permitted to sell, give away or offer for sale alcoholic liquor within the
licensed premises between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on New
Year's Eve Day and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on New Year's Day. The hour
limitations contained in this subsection may be further restricted by ordinance
for any licensee in the discretion of the corporate authorities of the village.
Licensees offering a brunch menu may serve alcoholic liquor beginning at nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Mondays through Sundays.
   B.   Class B License (Full Service Restaurant With A Patron Bar): Under a
class B license, a licensee shall be permitted to sell alcoholic liquor only:
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on Mondays through Thursdays; between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:
00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on Fridays/Saturdays and Saturdays/Sundays
(note: the 1:00 A.M. closing time carries over to the next following day); and
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. on Sundays, except alcoholic liquor may be sold, given away or offered for
sale within the licensed premises between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. on New Year's Eve Day and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on New Year's Day.
Licensees offering a brunch menu may serve alcoholic liquor beginning at nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Mondays through Sundays.
   C.   Class C License (Full Service Restaurant; Beer And Wine Only; No Patron
Or Service Bar): Under a class C license, a licensee shall be permitted to sell
beer and wine only between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, and between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays, except a
licensee shall be permitted to sell, give away or offer for sale beer and wine
within the licensed premises between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
on New Year's Eve Day and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on New Year's Day. The hour
limitations contained in this subsection may be further restricted by ordinance
for any licensee in the discretion of the corporate authorities of the village.
Licensees offering a brunch menu may serve alcoholic liquor beginning at nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Mondays through Sundays.
   D.   Class D License (Limited Service Restaurant; Beer And Wine Only; No
Patron Or Service Bar): Under a class D license, a licensee shall be permitted
to sell beer and wine only between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, and between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays, except
a licensee shall be permitted to sell, give away or offer for sale beer and
wine within the licensed premises between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. on New Year's Eve Day and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on New Year's Day. The
hour limitations contained in this subsection may be further restricted by
ordinance for any licensee in the discretion of the corporate authorities of
the village. Licensees offering a brunch menu may serve alcoholic liquor
beginning at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Mondays through Sundays.
   E.   Class E License (Supermarket): Under a class E license, a licensee
shall be permitted to sell or offer for sale within a supermarket only during
the time that the sale of groceries is being offered and subject to the
following hour limitations which may be further restricted by ordinance for any
liquor licensee in the discretion of the corporate authorities of the village:
only between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays.
Exception: A licensee shall be permitted to sell, give away or offer for sale
alcoholic liquor within the licensed premises between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Christmas Eve Day and
New Year's Eve Day when those days fall on a Sunday.
   F.   Class F License (Culinary School; Beer And Wine Only; No Patron Or
Service Bar): Under a class F license, a licensee shall be permitted to sell
beer and wine only between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, and between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Sundays. Licensees offering
a brunch menu may serve alcoholic liquor beginning at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
on Mondays through Sundays.
   G.   Class G License (Fine Wine, Premium Spirits, Premium Beer And Gourmet
Food Store; Premium Spirits, Premium Beer And Wine Only): Under a class G
license, a licensee shall be permitted to sell premium spirits, premium beer
and wine between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, and between the hours of twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays.
Exception: A licensee shall be permitted to sell, give away or offer for sale
alcoholic liquor within the licensed premises between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Christmas Eve Day and
New Year's Eve Day when those days fall on a Sunday.
   H.   Class H License (Outdoor Liquor Cafe): Under a class H license, a
licensee shall be permitted to sell and serve patrons alcoholic beverages in an
outdoor cafe during the time that complete meals are being served by the
restaurant and the patrons have ordered or are consuming such meals during the
following hours:
   Regular hours: Between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Sundays through Thursdays and between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Fridays and
Saturdays, unless such hours are further restricted in the ordinance creating a
class H liquor license or by the local liquor control commissioner. Licensees
offering a brunch menu may serve alcoholic liquor beginning at nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. on Mondays through Sundays.
   Extended hours: Between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays through Thursdays and between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Fridays and
Saturdays, unless such hours are further restricted in the ordinance creating a
class H liquor license or by the local liquor control commissioner. Licensees
offering a brunch menu may serve alcoholic liquor beginning at nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. on Mondays through Sundays.
   Prior to the opening times and after the closing times listed above, patrons
will not be allowed to occupy the outdoor liquor cafe, except that the outdoor
cafe can operate on a daily basis between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M., provided there are no liquor sales, service or
consumption of alcoholic beverages. The licensee shall not allow patrons to
consume alcoholic beverages in an outdoor cafe outside of the authorized hours
of operation.
   I.   Class I License (Special Events On Property Owned Or Leased By A Not
For Profit Organization): Under a class I license, a licensee shall be
permitted to sell alcoholic liquor at an indoor special event within the
licensed premises only between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. on Fridays and Saturdays extending to one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. on Sundays and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays through Thursdays, except a licensee shall be
permitted to sell, give away or offer for sale alcoholic liquor within the
licensed premises between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on New
Year's Eve Day and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on New Year's Day. Licensees
offering a brunch menu may serve alcoholic liquor beginning at nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. on Mondays through Sundays.
   Under a class I license, a licensee shall be permitted to sell alcoholic
liquor at an outdoor special event on the licensed premises only between the
hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. on
Sundays through Thursdays and between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Fridays and Saturdays, unless such hours
are further restricted in the ordinance creating a class I liquor license or by
the local liquor control commissioner. Licensees offering a brunch menu may
serve alcoholic liquor beginning at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Mondays through
Sundays. The licensee shall not allow patrons to consume alcoholic liquor at an
outdoor special event on the licensed premises outside of the authorized hours
of operation.
   The hour limitations contained in this subsection may be further restricted
by ordinance for any licensee in the discretion of the corporate authorities of
the village.
   J.   Class J License (Special Events Only On Village Owned Property; Beer,
Wine And Specialty Drinks Only): Under a class J license, a licensee shall be
permitted to sell beer, wine and specialty drinks only between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on weekdays and
Saturdays and Sundays. Licensees offering a brunch menu may serve alcoholic
liquor beginning at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Mondays through Sundays.
   K.   Class K License (BYOB - Corkage; Beer And Wine Only): Under a class K
license, a licensee shall be permitted to allow patrons to consume beer and
wine during the time that complete meals are being served by the restaurant and
the patrons have ordered or are consuming such meals during the following
hours: between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M. on weekdays and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on Fridays and Saturdays, and between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:
00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays, except alcoholic liquor
may be consumed within the licensed premises between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. on New Year's Eve Day and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. New
Year's Day. Licensees offering a brunch menu may serve alcoholic liquor
beginning at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Mondays through Sundays.
   L.   Class L License (Limited Special Event; Tastings Of Beer And Wine And
Beer And Wine Package Sales Only): Under a class L license, a licensee shall be
permitted to conduct tastings of beer and wine and retail package sales of beer
and wine between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. on weekdays and Saturdays and Sundays, unless such hours are further
restricted in the ordinance creating a class L liquor license or by the local
liquor control commissioner. Licensees offering a brunch menu may serve
alcoholic liquor beginning at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Mondays through
Sundays.
   M.   Class M License (Theater License; Beer, Wine And Specialty Drinks
Only): Under a class M license, a licensee shall be permitted to sell, offer
for sale or give away beer, wine and specialty drinks for consumption within
the licensed premises and consumption shall be allowed only during live
performance theater or stage events for one hour prior to an event, during
intermissions, and for no more than one hour after the conclusion of an event,
provided that the foregoing limited time periods for sales and consumption do
not exceed the time limitations set forth in the next sentence. Subject to the
preceding sentence, a class M licensee shall comply with the following hour
limitations which may be further restricted by ordinance for any liquor
licensee in the discretion of the corporate authorities of the village: between
the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on
weekdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, except alcoholic liquor may be sold,
given away or offered for sale within the licensed premises between the hours
of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on New Year's Eve Day and one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. on New Year's Day. Licensees offering a brunch menu may serve alcoholic
liquor beginning at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Mondays through Sundays.
   N.   Class N License (Caterer's License): A class N licensee is subject to
the following hour limitations, which may be further restricted by ordinance
for any liquor licensee in the discretion of the corporate authorities of the
village: between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. on weekdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, except alcoholic
liquor may be sold, given away or offered for sale within the licensed premises
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on New Year's Eve Day and one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. on New Year's Day. Licensees offering a brunch menu may
serve alcoholic liquor beginning at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Mondays through
Sundays.
   O.   Class O License: Under a class O license, a licensee shall be permitted
to sell alcoholic liquor only: between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Mondays through Thursdays; between the
hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on Fridays/
Saturdays and Saturdays/Sundays (note: the one o'clock (1:00) A.M. closing time
carries over to the next following day); and between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays, except
alcoholic liquor may be sold, given away or offered for sale within the
licensed premises between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on New
Year's Eve Day and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on New Year's Day.
   P.   Class P License: Under a class P license, a licensee shall be permitted
to sell beer and wine only between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M. and
eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. on weekdays and Saturdays, and between the hours of
eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays, except
a licensee shall be permitted to sell, give away or offer for sale beer and
wine within the licensed premises between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00)
P.M. on New Year’s Eve Day and one o’clock (1:00) A.M. on New Year’s Day. The
hour limitations contained in this subsection may be further restricted by
ordinance for any licensee in the discretion of the corporate authorities of
the village. Licensees offering a brunch menu may serve alcoholic liquor
beginning at nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. on Mondays through Sundays.
   Q.   Class Q License: Under a Class Q License, a licensee shall be permitted
to sell alcoholic liquor only: between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M.
and twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight on Mondays through Thursdays; between the
hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M. and one o’clock (1:00) A.M. on Fridays/
Saturdays and Saturdays/ Sundays (note: the 1:00 A.M. closing time carries over
to the next following day); and between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00)
A.M. and eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. on Sundays, except alcoholic liquor may be
sold, given away or offered for sale within the licensed premises between the
hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. on New Year’s Eve Day and one o’clock (1:
00) A.M. on New Year’s Day.
   R.   Class R License: Under a Class R License, a licensee shall be permitted
to sell alcoholic liquor only: between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Mondays through Sundays.
(Ord. 15-2790, 3-23-2015; amd. Ord. 15-2801, 5-18-2015; Ord. 15-2810, 6-22-
2015; Ord. 20-2997, 2-24-2020; Ord. 20-2999, 3-16-2020; Ord. 20-3027, 12-21-
2021; Ord. 22-3117, 1-23-2023; Ord. 24-3200, 7-15-2024)
4-1-14: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR SALE; CONSUMPTION; POSSESSION; ELIGIBILITY IF DEBT
OWED TO VILLAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either by himself or (his) agent, or any
person acting as an agent, barkeeper, clerk or servant of another, to sell or
offer for sale at retail, in the village, any alcoholic liquor without first
having obtained a license to do so, as is hereinafter provided. It shall also
be unlawful for any person himself, or acting through the agency of another
person, to sell or offer any alcoholic liquor for sale at retail in the village
in violation of the terms and conditions of such license or of the provisions
of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or possess any
alcoholic liquor in violation of the provisions of this chapter or state law,
as amended.
   A.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Chapter. (Ord. 10-2591, 8-30-
2010; amd. Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022)
4-1-15: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No license authorized hereunder shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the village.
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the commission determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person's application and the commission's investigation. The burden of
proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering, sexual molestation or
other crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose liquor license issued under this chapter or any other
governmental entity has been revoked for cause.
   H.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of license issued
hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first application.
   I.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the village. A
limited liability company shall be subject to the same requirements that are
imposed in this subsection on a copartnership.
   J.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
village.
   K.   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the business corporation act of
1983 to transact business in Illinois.
   L.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee.
   M.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, or has
forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges of any such violation,
unless the commission determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person's application and the commission's investigation. The burden of
proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant.
   N.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   O.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of the local
liquor control commission, village president or members of the board of
trustees; and no such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture,
sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a license may be granted
to such official in relation to premises that are not located within the
village if the issuance of such license is approved by the state liquor control
commission and except that a license may be granted in the village to any
member of the village board of trustees (except for the village president who
serves as the local liquor commissioner) in relation to premises that are
located within the village if: 1) the sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the
license is incidental to the selling of food, 2) the issuance of the license is
approved by the state commission, 3) the issuance of the license is in
accordance with all applicable local ordinances in effect where the premises
are located, and 4) the official granted a license does not vote on alcoholic
liquor issues pending before the board or council to which the license holder
is elected.
   P.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   Q.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 28-1 of, or as proscribed
by section 28-1.1 or 28-3 of, the criminal code of 1961, or as proscribed by a
statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions.
   R.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the raffles act or the Illinois pull tabs and jar games act.
   S.   A person who is not over twenty one (21) years of age.
   T.   A partnership, unless all of the partners of such partnership shall be
qualified to obtain a license as individuals except for reason of residency.
   U.   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the corporation
if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any financial gain to
the corporation and the corporation has terminated its relationship with each
director, officer, employee, or controlling shareholder whose actions directly
contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The commission shall
determine if all provisions of this subsection have been met before any action
on the corporation's license is initiated. (Ord. 03-2234, 4-21-2003)
4-1-16: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE TO SELL ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR:
   A.   Contents Of Application: All applications for a license to sell
alcoholic liquor within the village shall be made under oath, on forms to be
furnished by the village manager, and shall state or provide submission of the
following:
      1.   Applicant's name, mailing and residence address and telephone
number;
      2.   Applicant is a citizen of the United States;
      3.   Applicant's place of birth and, if a naturalized citizen, the time
and place of naturalization;
      4.   Applicant has never been convicted of a felony or any other offenses
prohibited under this section;
      5.   The street address or legal description of the premises for which
the license is sought. Applicant shall also submit proof of ownership of the
premises, such as a title policy or other proof of ownership deemed sufficient
by the village manager. In the event applicant leases the premises, then a copy
of said executed lease, certified by the applicant and the lessor under the
lease to be a true and accurate copy of applicant's lease, shall be submitted
with the completed application; (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
      6.   The proposed location is not within one hundred feet (100') of any
church, school, other than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home
for aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses, or children. In
the case of a church, the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured
from the nearest point of the lot line of the proposed location to the nearest
part of any building used for worship services or educational programs and not
to property boundaries of the building used for worship services or educational
programs. In the case of a school, hospital and home for aged or indigent
persons or for veterans, their spouses or children, the one hundred feet (100')
is measured from the center of the proposed licensed premises to the center of
the institution. A church, school or hospital may apply for and receive a
special events liquor license for its own premises if the church, school or
hospital qualifies for a state liquor license and a village liquor license and
otherwise conforms to the above location restrictions; (Ord. 10-2578, 4-26-
2010)
      7.   Applicant will not violate any of the laws of the village, the state
or of the United States in the conduct of his place of business;
      8.   The name, age, address, and telephone number of the person who will
manage the business of the applicant in the village;
      9.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business and the
nature of applicant's business experiences;
      10.   The application shall contain applicant's statement as to whether
or not they or it have made application for a license to sell alcoholic liquor
to any other governmental entity and the disposition of such application;
      11.   Whether or not the applicant, individually or any firm or entity
with which the applicant has been connected with previously as principal owner
or manager had been issued any previous license for the sale or handling of
alcoholic liquor, which license had been revoked or suspended by the federal
government or by any state or subdivision thereof, and the reasons or causes
for such revocation or suspension. Any such statement shall include information
identifying: a) the previous licensor; b) the licensee(s) by names and
addresses; c) the address of the licensed premises; and d) the name of the
licensed establishment and the date or dates of such revocation or suspension;
      12.   A verified financial statement showing the assets and liabilities
of the applicant dated no later than thirty (30) days prior to the date of
application. The financial statement shall be deemed "confidential" by the
village. Such financial statement may be enclosed in a sealed envelope that is
filed with the village manager to be delivered to the local commissioner. The
financial information submitted shall be information available for
consideration by the local commissioner and the local commission in the review
of the application for the initial license or for any renewal of the license.
Likewise, verified financial statements shall be submitted for all persons who
will share the profits or losses of a partnership which seeks a license, as
well as for shareholders owning more than five percent (5%) of the issued and
outstanding shares of a corporation which applies for a license;
      13.   The applicant's retailer's occupation tax (ROT) registration number
and a statement whether the applicant is delinquent in the payment of the
retailer's occupation tax (sales tax) and, if so, the reasons therefor;
      14.   Whether the applicant, any individual identified in the
application, or any other person, directly or indirectly interested in the
place of business is a public official, and if so, the particulars thereof;
      15.   A floor plan, diagram, or drawing deemed suitable by the local
commissioner, illustrating the premises, in which alcoholic liquor is to be
sold;
      16.   The current zoning of the premises at which the applicant's place
of business is to be operated;
      17.   Such additional information as the local commissioner may deem
necessary in order to establish the character of the applicant; and
      18.   In the case of a partnership or corporation, the foregoing
information shall be furnished as to each partner and for each shareholder
owning more than five percent (5%) of the issued and outstanding shares of the
corporation, officer and director of a corporate applicant. In the case the
business of licensee is to be managed by someone other than the individual
licensee or a partner or a shareholder, director or officer of a corporate
licensee, the manager shall furnish the foregoing information.
   B.   Payment Of Fees; Review Of Application: Applications shall be filed in
duplicate, along with a cashier's check or certified check, payable to the
village treasurer for the total amount of the initial application fee and the
annual license fee being applied for, all of which shall be filed in the office
of the village manager. The village manager, or duly authorized representative,
shall deliver the check to the village treasurer, and shall forthwith cause a
duplicate original of the application and supporting papers, including any
sealed envelope containing the financial statements of applicants, to be
delivered to the local commissioner. Upon receipt thereof, the local
commissioner shall examine such application and the supporting documents and if
same appear to be in order and complete, he/she shall make such further inquiry
or examination as may be deemed appropriate under this chapter and under the
circumstances. In the event the application is denied, only the amount remitted
as the annual license fee and not the initial application fee shall be refunded
by the village treasurer to the applicant forthwith.
   C.   Signature And Oath Required: Applications for licenses shall be signed
by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized officer, if
applicant is a corporation, or by a general partner with authority to bind the
partnership, if applicant is a partnership. All applications shall be verified
by oath or affidavit. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
   D.   Renewal Applications; Manager Applications: All annual applications for
the renewal of a liquor license shall be made under oath on a form to be
furnished by the village manager. The renewal application form shall require
the applicant to verify that the information contained in the original
application is still accurate or, if different, then the applicant shall submit
supplemental information, which will allow the local liquor control
commissioner and the director of law enforcement to confirm that the applicant
is still eligible to hold the requested liquor license. Managers of businesses
that sell or serve or allow consumption of alcoholic liquor shall complete an
application that is made under oath on a form to be furnished by the village
manager. The manager applicant shall complete the application and submit the
requested information to allow the local liquor control commissioner and the
director of law enforcement to verify that the manager applicant is eligible to
work in a licensed premises. All liquor license holders and managers are
obligated to immediately notify the local liquor control commissioner of any
change in status that would disqualify him/her from continuing to hold a liquor
license or work in a licensed premises. (Ord. 12-2681, 6-11-2012)
4-1-17: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; DIRECTOR OF LAW ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Investigation Required: Upon receipt of an application for a license to
sell alcoholic liquor, the local commissioner shall direct the applicant to the
director of law enforcement services for the purpose of a background
investigation. The director of law enforcement services shall conduct an
investigation into the fitness and character of the applicant, and no license
shall be issued until said investigation is completed and the results forwarded
to the local commissioner.
   B.   Content Of Investigation: The investigation by the director of law
enforcement services shall include:
      1.   A signed waiver from the applicant waiving his right to privacy and
agreeing to hold the department of law enforcement services and the village
harmless as a result of such investigation;
      2.   Submission by the applicant to fingerprinting and a record search;
      3.   The photographing of said applicant to be used for those purposes
deemed necessary by the director of law enforcement services;
      4.   Interviews with persons or companies that may assist in the gaining
of background information concerning the applicant; and
      5.   Any and all other functions deemed necessary by the director of law
enforcement services to ensure a fair and honest conclusion.
   C.   More Than One Individual: If the application for license includes more
than one individual, then each such individual listed on the application shall
be subject to the foregoing requirements. Additionally, each partner in the
case of a partnership and each officer, director and shareholder owning more
than five percent (5%) of the issued and outstanding share of the corporation,
in the case of a corporation, shall also be subject to the foregoing
requirements. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
   D.   Renewal Applications: Upon receipt of a renewal application for a
current liquor license, the local liquor control commissioner, in his/her
discretion, may direct that any applicant in good standing with regard to his/
her liquor and business licenses need not undergo a background investigation by
the director of law enforcement, provided the applicant submits a complete,
fully executed renewal application that does not disclose any facts or
statements that would give the director of law enforcement reasonable cause to
conduct a background investigation. If the local liquor control commissioner or
the director of law enforcement services requires a background investigation
for any renewal applicant, no renewal license shall be issued until said
investigation is completed, the results are forwarded to the local liquor
control commissioner and the local liquor control commissioner makes a decision
on the issuance of the renewal license. (Ord. 12-2681, 6-11-2012)
4-1-18: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT; LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER AND
COMMISSION:
   A.   General: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner and the Local
Commission, as directed by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, shall have
the right to examine or cause to be examined, under oath, any person applying
for a license or for a renewal thereof. Such rights shall extend also to the
partners, officers, directors, shareholders, managers or agents of any person,
including corporations, who apply for a license. Likewise, these rights of
examination shall extend to a licensee or its officers, managers or agents, as
well as any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been
served, as provided by State Statute or by this chapter. The Local Liquor
Control Commissioner and the Local Commission shall have the further right to
examine or to cause examination to be made of the books and records of any
person applying for a license, or similarly of the officers and agents of a
corporate person, as well as that of a licensee or its officers or agents, to
hear testimony and take proof for his/her information in the performance of
his/her duties and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective
in any part of the State, for the purpose of obtaining any of the information
desired by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this section or under
this chapter. He/she may authorize an agent to act on his/her behalf, as
provided by State Statute. (Ord. 12-2681, 6-11-2012)
   B.   Renewal Of Special Event Liquor Licenses: A renewal application for a
"special event" liquor license shall be considered first by Village staff and
then by the General Government Committee prior to action by the Village Board
on an ordinance approving the creation of the special event liquor license in
situations where the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has determined that the
proposed special event is substantially the same as the prior special event.
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner, in his/her discretion, may direct that
any renewal application for a special event be considered by the Local Liquor
Control Commission prior to consideration by the Village Board. The applicant,
for renewal of a special event liquor license, is required to prepare, send out
and comply with the notice, mailing and affidavit requirements set forth in the
special event liquor license regulations of this Code. (Ord. 16-2850, 11-28-
2016)
4-1-19: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONTENTS; TIME LIMITATION ON NONUSE:
   A.   Upon compliance by the applicant with the provisions of this chapter
and upon the written approval by the Local Commissioner of said application, a
liquor license may be issued upon payment of the prescribed fees set forth
below, provided that the Corporate Authorities of the Village determine that
the issuance of such a license is in the best interest of the Village and
approve an ordinance increasing the number of liquor licenses in the particular
class by one for use by the applicant.
   B.   Each license shall state thereon the classification of license, the
name of the licensee, the licensee's address, and a description of the licensed
premises.
   C.   Any license issued under this chapter must be used by the licensee
within forty five (45) days after the date of issuance, otherwise, the license
shall automatically be revoked and the number of authorized licenses of the
particular class shall automatically be reduced by one. The Local Commissioner
shall notify, in writing, the Village Clerk and Board of Trustees of any
revocation of any authorized license within seven (7) days of such occurrence.
(Ord. 01-2173, 9-24-2001)
4-1-20: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No license shall be granted to any applicant until such applicant shall
furnish evidence satisfactory to the Local Commissioner that such applicant is
covered by a policy of liquor liability insurance with coverage limits not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per person and per occurrence.
   B.   Each licensee shall furnish the Local Commissioner with a certificate
of such insurance prior to the issuance of the license and annually. In the
event of a cancellation, the Local Commissioner or Village Manager shall be
notified immediately of such cancellation. The failure to secure and
continuously maintain insurance coverage as stated herein shall be grounds for
the immediate suspension of business activities and/or revocation of the liquor
license by the Local Commissioner. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-21: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor of the
type specified only in the premises that are described in the application and
license. Where no change in ownership or sale of business is involved, a
licensee may apply for a permanent change in location and, if approved by the
Corporate Authorities of the Village by the adoption of an ordinance, no
additional fees will be required. In the event of a permanent change in
location, the approving ordinance shall authorize the issuance of a license for
the new address and terminate the license issued relative to the former
address. The location of a business operating with a liquor license may be
temporarily changed (for 30 days or less) only upon the written authorization
permitting such a change issued by the Local Commissioner. Any temporary change
in location that will exceed thirty (30) days requires the approval of the
Corporate Authorities of the Village by the adoption of an ordinance. No change
of location shall be authorized by the Local Commissioner or the Corporate
Authorities of the Village, unless the proposed temporary or new permanent
location is a proper one for the retail sale of liquor under the Illinois
Liquor Control Act, as amended, and the provisions of this chapter and the
change in location is determined by the Local Commissioner or the Corporate
Authorities to be in the best interest of the Village. (Ord. 01-2173, 9-24-
2001)
4-1-22: PERSONAL NATURE OF LICENSE, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER; REFUND:
   A.   Personal Nature Of License; Nontransferability: Any license issued
hereunder shall be purely a personal privilege to expire not later than April
30 next after the issuance unless sooner revoked as provided in this chapter
and such license shall not constitute property nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, nor shall it be subject to be encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease and terminate upon the death of the
licensee. Such license shall also cease and terminate upon the insolvency or
bankruptcy of any licensee; provided, however, that the executor or
administrator of the estate of any deceased licensee or the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of a business
that is licensed under this chapter to sell alcoholic liquors, may continue the
business of the sale at retail of such alcoholic liquor under order of the
appropriate court and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent
or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent or insolvency or
bankruptcy until the expiration of such license but no longer than six (6)
months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee whichever is
the first to occur.
   B.   License Nontransferable: A liquor license is nontransferable. In the
case of any sale of a business operating with a liquor license or a change in
the ownership of the licensee, the license for that address shall be
automatically revoked. In the case of a cessation of business by any licensee
for forty five (45) successive days, without prior notification to the village,
the license issued to the licensee shall be automatically revoked, the number
of authorized licenses of the particular class shall automatically be reduced
by one, and the licensee must reapply for a liquor license.
   C.   Refund Of License Fee: There shall be no refund of the license fee for
any portion of a year during which the licensee ceases to engage in the
business of selling alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 01-2173, 9-24-2001)
4-1-23: CHANGE IN PERSONNEL OR CORPORATE OWNERSHIP:
In the event that a partnership which is the licensee is terminated by reason
of the death, insolvency, removal, adjudication of bankruptcy or mental
incompetency of a partner, the surviving or remaining partners, as agents then
qualified to become a licensee under this chapter, may apply for the transfer
of the license held by the former partnership, to a new partnership in which
they are the only partners or to one or more of the partners, as individuals,
or to a corporation as such transferee, if otherwise qualified, as required
under this chapter and the laws of the state; provided, that there shall be no
transfer of location of such license to premises other than the licensed
premises, unless such other premises conforms to the requirements of this
chapter as to location and condition for a licensed premises, and then only as
any such change of location is approved in accordance with the provisions of
section
4-1-21 of this chapter. If a corporation is the licensee, its president or
chief executive officer is hereby obligated to report in writing to the village
manager within sixty (60) days of any change in the operative control, through
change in the ownership of shares, or otherwise, of such corporation. Such
report shall be transmitted in writing, verified by the oath of such officer,
and shall be filed in duplicate in the office of the village manager. The
village manager, or authorized representative, shall forthwith deliver a
duplicate original of such verified report to the local commissioner who shall
consider the information disclosed and shall make such further investigation,
including interrogation of the officers or agents of the licensee to determine
whether or not such change in the ownership or control of such corporate
licensee may affect the quality, makeup, financial responsibility,
accountability, or performance of the licensee under the covenants,
representations and conditions of its license and its application of such
license or for the renewal thereof. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-24: POSTING LICENSES AND WARNING SIGNS:
Licenses issued hereunder shall be framed and posted and maintained in a
conspicuous place in the licensed premises where they will be visible to
customers. Licensees shall also post the birth defects warning sign as required
by state law. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-25: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Any licensee may apply for renewal of his license at the expiration thereof;
provided, that such licensee has complied with all provisions of this chapter
during the previous year, such licensee continues to meet the qualifications
under this chapter to receive a license, and the premises for which such
renewal license is sought are suitable for the continued use for the purposes
hereunder; provided further, that the privilege of renewal herein permitted
shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the
village president and its board of trustees from decreasing the number of
licenses to be issued hereunder for any subsequent license year. (Ord. 99-2077,
2-22-1999)
4-1-26: LOCATION RESTRICTION:
All licensed premises shall be located only in a commercial district as
established by the village's official zoning map, as may be amended from time
to time, except for special events liquor licenses, which may be issued for
premises that are located in any zoning district within the village. (Ord. 10-
2578, 4-26-2010)
4-1-27: STANDARDS FOR LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Sanitary Premises: The licensed premises shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition and shall be kept in full compliance with any building code
or health code, and any revisions thereof from time to time enacted by the
village president and board of trustees and shall be opened by the licensee at
any time for inspection by the local commissioner and the director of law
enforcement services or other authorized official of the village.
   B.   Lighting Requirements: All rooms where alcoholic liquor is sold for
consumption upon the premises shall be continuously lighted during business
hours by natural light or artificial light so that all parts of the interior of
the premises shall be clearly visible. No window display of alcoholic liquor
shall be permitted. The exterior of the licensed premises shall be adequately
lighted at night by artificial light. Neither the words "bar" nor "saloon" nor
"tavern" shall be used in the name of the business, or in advertising for any
licensee's business or on the licensed premises.
   C.   Plans And Specifications: In the event the building where the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor is conducted is to be reconstructed or modified in any
way, a copy of the plans showing the dimensions and layout of the structure
shall be submitted for approval by the code enforcement department and the
local commissioner along with a copy of the license. Except for variances from
such plan that are occasioned by changes in any village code, the building
shall conform to the plans submitted. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-28: PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS FOR LICENSED
PREMISES:
   A.   Gambling: No game of chance or electronic gambling device shall be kept
or used in any licensed premises nor shall any licensee permit any illegal,
disorderly or immoral practices or gambling upon the licensed premises, except
that lottery tickets under the Illinois lottery may be sold therein and a
"special event retailer", as defined in section
4-1-3, "Definitions", of this chapter, may operate charitable games and any
other games of chance regulated by the Illinois raffles act 1 , the Illinois
pull tabs and jar games act 2 , the Illinois bingo license and tax act 3  and
the Illinois charitable games act 4  as part of a special event, but only upon
approval of the village board by ordinance and further approval of the local
liquor control commissioner, subject to the issuance of all required state and
local licenses and permits. (Ord. 11-2624, 4-25-2011)
   B.   Serving Liquor By Minors: No person under the age of twenty one (21)
years may serve, draw or mix any alcoholic liquor as an agent or employee of
the licensee.
   C.   Sale By Certain Persons: No person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, nor any customer of any age may register, by mechanical or electronic
means, the sale of any alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
   D.   Cash Sales Required; Separate Cash Register Or Sales Tracking System:
All sales of alcoholic liquor within the village shall be made for cash or its
equivalent, which may include credit and debit cards and checks. In the case of
a licensee that has received a class "G" liquor license (fine wine, premium
spirits, premium beer and gourmet food store) and then petitions for and
receives one of the full service or limited service restaurant liquor licenses,
the licensee shall operate separate cash registers or a sales tracking system
to record all retail transactions relative to each specific liquor license.
(Ord. 08-2496, 6-23-2008)
   E.   Transactions Confined To Licensed Premises; Peddling Prohibited: All
sales shall be transacted on the licensed premises and the delivery of
alcoholic liquor shall be made to the purchaser on the licensed premises. It
shall be a violation of this chapter for any licensee, or any officer,
associate, member, representative, agent or employee of any licensee to allow
or permit any individual to exit the licensed premises, or remain outside of
the licensed premises on property under the control of the licensee with
alcoholic liquor in his or her possession. It shall be unlawful to peddle or
deliver alcoholic liquor in the village. Delivery of alcoholic liquor shall
only be permitted pursuant to state law. (Ord. 01-2173, 9-24-2001)
   F.   Fraud: Any licensee who, in the process of obtaining his license, or a
renewal thereof, furnishes false information or who withholds or fails to
furnish or disclose information that would affect his qualifications as a
licensee hereunder, shall be subject, upon discovery thereof, to have his
license suspended or revoked after due notice and appropriate proceedings
thereon as specified in the Illinois liquor control act.
   G.   Storage Of Liquor: Licensees shall store alcoholic liquor only on the
licensed premises and at no other place in the village. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-
1999)
   H.   Compliance With Additional Restrictions: Nothing in this chapter shall
excuse or relieve the owner, proprietor or person in charge of the business
being conducted on the licensed premises from complying with or conforming to
the restrictions and requirements of any ordinance approving the issuance of a
liquor license, any other applicable ordinances of the village, or the Illinois
liquor control act, as amended.
   I.   Soliciting Liquor On Licensed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee, its manager, or other person in charge of any restaurant where
alcoholic liquor is sold or offered for sale for consumption on the licensed
premises to permit any person to remain on the premises who shall solicit any
patron or customer therein to purchase alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor for
himself or herself or any other person therein; provided, however, that nothing
herein contained shall prohibit any otherwise qualified manager, bartender,
waiter, or waitress who shall be regularly employed therein from accepting and
serving the order of a patron or customer in the regular course of employment
as such manager, bartender, waiter, or waitress. (Ord. 01-2173, 9-24-2001)
   J.   Indecent Conduct Or Publications: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee, its manager, or other person in charge of premises licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor to permit the following kinds of conduct, or to sell books,
magazines, coin operated motion picture devices, films, or movies depicting,
describing, or relating to the following kinds of conduct on such premises:
      1.   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law.
      2.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing, or fondling of the
breasts, buttocks, anus, or genitals.
      3.   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, pubic hair, anus,
vulva, or genitals.
      4.   Striptease shows or lingerie fashion shows.
   K.   No Live Entertainment: No licensee shall have or offer live
entertainment on the licensed premises unless specifically permitted by the
class of license held by the licensee. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
   L.   Restrictions On Sales And Promotions: All licensees selling alcoholic
beverages to be served and drunk on the licensed premises are prohibited from
engaging any of the following enumerated practices:
      1.   No licensee or employer, agent of a licensee, shall:
         a.   Deliver more than two (2) drinks to one person at one time.
         b.   Sell, offer, or deliver to any person an unlimited number of
drinks during any set period of time for a fixed price, except at private
functions not open to the public.
         c.   Sell, offer to sell, or deliver drinks to any person or group of
persons on any one day at prices less than those charged the general public on
that entire day (such as happy hours), except at private functions not open to
the public.
         d.   Increase the volume of alcoholic beverages contained in a drink
without increasing proportionately the price charged for such drink during the
same calendar week.
         e.   Encourage or permit on the licensed premises any game or contest
which involves drinking or the awarding of drinks as prizes.
      2.   No licensee shall advertise or promote in any way, any manner or by
any medium the practices prohibited under this section. (Ord. 02-2200, 5-20-
2002)
   M.   Signs; Advertisements:
      1.   Prohibited: No sign which is visible from outside of the licensed
premises where alcoholic liquor is sold, which promotes or advertises the sale
of alcoholic liquor, or identifies the licensee's premises as a place where
alcoholic liquor is served, shall be placed or erected inside or outside of the
licensed premises.
      2.   Certain Signage Prohibited: No person shall post, permit, keep,
maintain, or allow on or in any licensed premises any sign that is visible from
the midpoint of any private or public sidewalk adjacent to the licensed
premises or, if no sidewalk exists, then from any place or point outside of the
licensed premises or that is affixed to the exterior of the licensed premises
or that is located on or attached to the underlying lot of the licensed
premises that:
         a.   Advertises, relates to or depicts any alcoholic liquor or
manufacturer, distributor, brand, slogan or logo (including the generic term
"liquor"); or
         b.   Announces, advertises, depicts or relates to any alcoholic liquor
sale or special event, excluding happy hour advertisements that comply with
section 6-28.5 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1935 1 .
      3.   Business Name Signage: This subsection M shall not prohibit the use
of the legal name or an assumed name or a branded name of the licensed
business, even if the name includes an alcohol-related word (e.g., tap, bar,
vino), on signage that otherwise complies with applicable codes, ordinances,
and regulations.
      4.   Advertising: Except as stated in subsection M2 of this section, the
licensee may advertise or promote through any media or other means of
communication in any way at any time, whether on or off the premises, provided
that such advertising shall otherwise comply with State Statutes and with all
codes, ordinances and regulations of the Village of Western Springs. (Ord. 17-
2875, 3-27-2017)
   N.   Sealing And Removal Of Open Wine Bottles From Restaurants: A restaurant
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor may permit a patron to remove one unsealed
and partially consumed bottle of wine for off premises consumption provided
that the patron has purchased a meal and consumed a portion of the bottle of
wine with the meal on the restaurant premises. A partially consumed bottle of
wine that is to be removed from the premises pursuant to this subsection shall
be securely sealed by the licensee or an agent of the licensee prior to removal
from the premises and placed in a transparent onetime use tamperproof bag. The
licensee or agent of the licensee shall provide a dated receipt for the bottle
of wine to the patron. Wine that is resealed in accordance with the provisions
of this subsection and not tampered with shall not be deemed an unsealed
container for the purposes of section 11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. See
also 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-33. (Ord. 08-2496, 6-23-2008)
   O.   Alcohol Sellers And Servers Education And Training Program Required:
All liquor licensees shall be required to have any on site owner/manager and
all employees or any other person who may, as a part of their job, sell
alcoholic liquor to a customer, serve alcoholic liquor to any person on the
licensed premises or handle alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises, take and
successfully complete a Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and
Training (BASSET) Program that has been certified by the State of Illinois.
Once the initial training certification expires, a renewal of the BASSET
training certification is required. A copy of the current BASSET course
completion certificate(s) for the on site owner/manager, his/her/its employees
and the above mentioned other person(s) shall be made available at all times at
the licensed premises for inspection by the Village Manager, or his or her
designee. (Ord. 08-2509, 10-27-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
2 2. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
3 3. 230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
4 4. 230 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-28.5.
4-1-29: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Sales Prohibited: No licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee shall sell, give, or deliver
alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or to
any intoxicated person, except in the conduct of a "sting operation" against an
employee of the licensee, notice of which has been given by the licensee to the
Local Commissioner and the Chief of Police not more than thirty (30) nor less
than ten (10) days prior to the operation.
   B.   Presumption Of Sales To Minors: If a person under the age of twenty one
(21) years is in possession of alcoholic liquor on premises licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor for consumption on such premises, it shall be presumed that
the licensee sold, gave, or delivered such alcoholic liquor to the minor in
possession thereof.
   C.   Refusal Of Sale To Minors Without Identification: For the purpose of
preventing the violation of this section, any licensee, or its agent or
employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to any person who is
unable to produce adequate written evidence of identity and of the fact that he
or she is over the age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-30: PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR BY PERSONS OF
NONAGE; PROOF OF AGE AND IDENTIFICATION CARDS:
   A.   Authority To Require Identification: The licensee, officer,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee, at the time of any sale,
gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor, shall require positive identification and
proof of age of the recipient by means of a card or other document issued by a
Federal, State, County or Municipal government or subdivision or agency
thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's license, a
registration certificate issued under the Federal Selective Service Act, or an
identification card issued to a member of the armed forces. Such document shall
contain the name, signature, date of birth and a readily recognizable
photograph of the face of the person to whom the same is issued.
   B.   False Identification; Purchase Without Identification Prohibited: No
person shall misrepresent his or her age by any means for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor. Any person to whom the sale, gift or
delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or
accept a gift of such alcoholic liquor in his or her possession. No person
described in the provisions of this section shall purchase or accept a gift of
alcoholic liquor without at that time possessing and exhibiting positive
identification and proof of age as defined in this section.
   C.   Possession Or Consumption Of Liquor:
      1.   Prohibited Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) to possess or consume alcoholic liquor anywhere in the
Village.
      2.   Exemptions: The possession or consumption by a person under twenty
one (21) years of age of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious
service or ceremony, or the consumption of alcoholic liquor by a person under
twenty one (21) years of age under the direct supervision and approval of the
parents or parent or those persons standing in loco parentis of such person
under twenty one (21) years of age in the privacy of a home, is not prohibited
by this section.
      3.   Violations: Whenever a police officer is authorized to arrest a
person without a warrant because of a violation of subsection C1 of this
section, the police officer may, in lieu of filing a complaint in the Circuit
Court in the first instance, issue such alleged violator a citation which shall
advise said person he has violated the specific section of the liquor control
ordinance. The person to whom the citation has been issued may settle the
violation claimed by paying a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) within a
period of not more than ten (10) days from the date of said alleged offense. If
the person shall fail to settle and pay the fine within the ten (10) day time
period, then the police officer is authorized to cause the citation to be
served upon the alleged violator, and is authorized to file the same as a
complaint in the Circuit Court of Cook County and to prosecute the same. If
such complaint is prosecuted by the Circuit Court, payment of any fines and
costs or other punishment shall be determined and established by the Circuit
Court, but such a fine, if assessed, shall not exceed the sum of seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for this violation. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
4-1-31: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; NOTICE; HEARING; FINES:
   A.   Authority: The Local Commissioner may suspend or revoke any license
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, if he/she determines that
the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Liquor Control Act of
the State, or the provisions of this chapter, or of any valid ordinance of the
Village or any applicable rules or regulations established by the Illinois
Liquor Control Commission.
   B.   Public Hearing: No such license shall be revoked or suspended except
after a public hearing by the Local Commissioner or the Local Commission as
directed by the Local Commissioner, with a three (3) day written notice sent to
the licensee prior to the hearing affording said licensee an opportunity to
appear and defend; provided, however, that if the Local Commissioner has reason
to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed premises will
immediately threaten the welfare of the community, he/she may, upon the
issuance of a written order stating the reason for such conclusion and without
notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed for not more than seven
(7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period,
except that if such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another
business or businesses on the licensed premises, such order shall not be
applicable to such other business or businesses.
   C.   Conduct Of Hearing: All such hearings shall be open to the public, and
the Local Commissioner shall reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain
an official record of the proceedings.
   D.   Decision Of Local Commissioner: The Local Commissioner shall, within
five (5) days after such hearing, if he/she determines after such hearing that
the license should be revoked or suspended, or that the licensee should be
fined, state the reason or reasons for such determination in a written order
and either the amount of the fine, the period of suspension, or that the
license has been revoked, and shall serve a copy of the order within five (5)
days upon the licensee.
   E.   Appeal: The licensee, after the receipt of the order of suspension or
revocation, shall have the privilege, within a period of twenty (20) days after
the receipt of such order of suspension or revocation, of appealing the order
to the Illinois Liquor Control Commission, and upon the filing of such an
appeal by the licensee, may resume his business until such time as the Illinois
Liquor Control Commission shall render a decision either sustaining the order
of the Local Commissioner or reversing the order. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
   F.   Fines: In addition to suspension, the Local Commissioner may levy a
fine on the licensee for violations as described in subsection A of this
section. Such fine shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a
first violation within a twelve (12) month period, one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation within a twelve (12) month period,
and two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for a third or subsequent
violation within a twelve (12) month period. Each day on which each violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than fifteen thousand
dollars ($15,000.00) in fines under this section may be imposed against any
licensee during the period of his license. (Ord. 00-2141, 9-25-2000, eff. 1-1-
2001)
4-1-32: PENALTIES:
Except as provided in subsection
4-1-31F of this chapter, a person who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense,
and each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall be considered a
separate offense. The revocation or suspension of a license may be in addition
to the imposition of a fine or other penalty for violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, and such revocation or suspension shall be no
defense to a prosecution for such violation. (Ord. 99-2077, 2-22-1999)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Nuisances Enumerated
5-1-2: Plants And Weeds
5-1-3: Insanitary Buildings Or Premises
5-1-4: Trees Obstructing Sewers Or Drains
5-1-5: Common Law Nuisances
5-1-6: Abatement Of Nuisance
5-1-7: Obstruction Of Watercourses
5-1-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
In addition to the nuisances defined elsewhere in this code, each of the
following acts or omissions is declared to constitute a public nuisance:
   A.   Offensive Smells: To so conduct any business or use any premises as to
create an offensive smell which taints the air or renders it unwholesome or
disagreeable to the neighborhood.
   B.   Animal Carcasses: To cause or permit the carcass of any dead animal or
offal, filth or any noisome substance of any kind to be deposited or to remain
in any place in the village, to the annoyance or prejudice of others.
   C.   Offensive Substances: To throw or deposit any night soil, dead animal,
offal or other offensive or noisome substance upon any lot, street, alley, park
or other public place or in any watercourse, pond, spring or well in the
village.
   D.   Polluting Drinking Water: To pollute or render unwholesome or impure
the water of any drinking hydrant, spring, stream, pond or lake, to the
annoyance or prejudice of others.
   E.   Obstructing Highways: To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys or public places of the village.
   F.   Garbage Or Refuse On Premises: To permit garbage, offal, refuse, ashes,
miscellaneous waste or any animal or vegetable matter which is likely to become
offensive or injurious to health or to be blown about by the wind to remain,
for a longer period than twenty four (24) hours at any one time, on any
premises in the village.
   G.   Premises In Filthy Condition: To keep or permit to be kept in a foul,
nauseous or filthy condition any chicken house, stable, cellar, vault, drain,
pool, sewer, privy, sink, railroad car, building, yard, grounds or premises
within the village.
   H.   Cattle Cars Or Pens: To own, keep or maintain any railroad car, yard,
pen, place or premises in the village in or upon which cattle, horses, sheep or
swine shall be confined in a nauseous or filthy condition, so as to be
offensive to those residing in the vicinity or to the public.
   I.   Offensive Business: To erect, maintain or use any building or other
place for a packinghouse, rendery, tallow chandlery, glue factory, tannery or,
without limitation to the foregoing, for any trade, employment or manufacture
which by occasioning noxious exhalations or otherwise, is offensive and
dangerous to the health of individuals or the public. (1978 Code §
4-1-1)
   J.   Privies: To erect or maintain any privy upon any real estate in the
village abutting on or within four hundred feet (400') of any street on which
is located a public sanitary sewer, except where specially permitted by the
director of municipal services for temporary use.
   K.   Basements; Vaults; Drains: To cause or permit any basement, cellar,
vault, drain, sewer or sink to become nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to
the public health.
   L.   Slaughtering: To kill or slaughter within the village any cattle, hogs,
sheep or other animals except poultry or maintain or operate any establishment
where the business of slaughtering such animals is carried on.
   M.   Overflowing Waste: To throw or deposit any slops, suds, swill or other
nauseous or offensive liquid substance on any premises in such manner that the
same will run or be washed upon the adjoining premises, street or alley. (1978
Code §
4-1-1)
   N.   Poultry: To keep or harbor any chickens, ducks, geese or other poultry,
or any pigeons, in any enclosure located within seventy five feet (75') (or, if
cock fowl, within 300 feet) of any building used as a residence by any person
other than the owner of said animals or to maintain any poultry yard with less
than two hundred (200) square feet for each fowl, or to keep it in an
insanitary condition, or to permit any poultry to run at large in the village;
exception to the above regulation: chickens and outdoor chicken shelters that
are allowed pursuant to a village temporary use permit issued under subsection
10-4-5D8 of the development control ordinance, provided that the chickens and
shelter are maintained in accordance with the regulations of subsection
10-4-5D8 of the development control ordinance and all other applicable health
and sanitary regulations of this code.
   O.   Smoke; Abatement: To cause or permit the emission of dense smoke,
within the village, from the smokestack of any locomotive or from the
smokestack or chimney of any building or premises, excepting for a period of
six (6) minutes in any one hour during which the firebox is being cleaned out
or a new fire is being built therein, during which period or periods
aggregating six (6) minutes in any one hour, the emission of smoke of a shade
or density greater than number three of the Ringelmann chart, as published by
the United States bureau of mines, is prohibited. Such action may be summarily
abated by the director of law enforcement services or anyone whom he may
authorize for such purpose. Such abatement may be in addition to the fine
provided for by section
1-4-1 of this code. (1978 Code §
4-1-1)
   P.   Combustible Materials Near Buildings: To pile or stack hay, straw or
other combustible or inflammable material within the space of fifty feet (50')
of any building within the village. Provided, however, that this shall not
apply to temporary piling of materials to be used for building purposes. (1978
Code §
4-1-1)
   Q.   Distribution Of Handbills In Public Places: To distribute to the public
any cards, circulars, handbills, notices, samples of merchandise, or any
advertising matter whatsoever on any public street or sidewalk or other public
place in the village, including public parking lots, unless distributed
directly to any person willing to accept it, and to place or affix circulars,
handbills, notices, samples of merchandise, or any other advertising material
whatsoever on the windows, windshields or other portions of any vehicles parked
on public streets or in public parking lots, unless distributed to any occupant
of such vehicle who is willing to accept it. It shall also be a nuisance for a
person to distribute to the public any cards, circulars, handbills, notices,
samples of merchandise, or any advertising matter in private parking lots by
placing or affixing such items on the windows, windshields or other portions of
any vehicles parked in a private parking lot without the parking lot owner's
consent. Provided, however, that this shall not apply to police enforcement
officers or other village officials affixing code violations or tickets or any
public safety or educational notices on any automobiles parked on public
streets or in public parking lots.
   R.   Visual Blight: To cause, create or allow to exist any unreasonable or
unlawful condition or use of real property, premises or of building exteriors
which by reason of its appearance as viewed at ground level from the public
right of way or from neighboring premises, is offensive to the senses, reduces
the aesthetic appearance of the neighborhood, or is detrimental to the value of
nearby properties in the neighborhood. This section is intended to apply to all
violations of the building regulations and property maintenance regulations set
forth in this code, as amended, including, but not limited to, the maintenance
of the exterior of any structures and buildings and compliance with the
applicable regulations pertaining to windows of any vacant buildings. Visual
blight includes, but is not limited to, the keeping, storing, depositing,
scattering over or accumulation on the premises any of the following:
      1.   Lumber, junk, trash, debris, scrap metal, rubbish, packing
materials, and building materials.
      2.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
furniture, stoves, appliances, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers,
automotive parts and equipment.
      3.   Abandoned, inoperable, unregistered, hazardous, wrecked, discarded
or unlawful vehicles, as defined in title 7 (Motor Vehicles And Traffic),
chapter 9 (Abandoned, Inoperable, Unregistered, Hazardous And Unlawful
Vehicles) of this code, as amended.
      4.   Stagnant water or excavations.
      5.   Any personal property, object, device, decoration, design, fence,
structure, clothesline, landscaping or vegetation which is unsightly by reason
of its condition or its inappropriate location.
   S.   Rules Of Conduct For Village Buildings And Village Land Are
Incorporated By Reference: Each of the rules of conduct for village buildings
and village land set forth at section
6-7-1 of this code are incorporated by reference as separate enumerated
nuisances under this section by the village. Any and all violations of the
rules shall be considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to the penalty provisions under this chapter
if proceeded hereunder.
   T.   Removal Of Dead Or Diseased Trees: See section
5-5-7, "Dutch Elm Disease And Emerald Ash Borer", of this title.
   U.   Illicit Stormwater Discharge: To place, drain, or otherwise discharge,
cause, or allow others under their control to place, drain, or otherwise
discharge into the storm drainage system or MS4 any pollutants or waters
containing any pollutants, other than normal stormwater as set forth in section
8-14-9 (Prohibition Of Illicit Discharges) of this code or to construct, use,
maintain, or allow the continued existence of illicit connections to the storm
drainage system or MS4 as set forth in section
8-14-10 (Prohibition Of Illicit Connections) or section
8-14-11 (Drains And Connections, Restrictions) of this code.
   V.   Feeding of wild/feral animals or birds: Subject to compliance with the
applicable provisions of any federal, state or local law or regulation,
including but not limited to the Cook County Managed Care of Feral Cats
Ordinance, no person shall conduct any activity or create any condition on
property under such person's control, including but not limited to the feeding
of wild or feral animals or birds, if such activity or condition attracts wild
animals, birds or insects, in a manner or in sufficiently large numbers as to
cause unreasonable damage to other property or a hazard to public health.
(amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 07-2438, 3-27-2007; Ord. 07-2439, 4-23-2007; Ord. 12-
2666, 3-23-2012; Ord. 12-2697, 11-5-2012; Ord. 15-2803, 5-18-2015; Ord. 20-
3011, 7-27-2020; Ord. 20-3017, 10-26-2020)
5-1-2: PLANTS AND WEEDS:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, ragweed,
thistle, cockleburr, or other weeds of a like kind, found growing in any lot or
tract of land within the village are declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be
unlawful to permit any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
   B.   Height; Grass And Weeds: It shall be unlawful and constitute a public
nuisance for any person who owns or controls any real estate to permit grass or
weeds, other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow on
such real estate or on the parkways contiguous to such real estate to a height
of eight inches (8") or more. Any person who owns or controls any real estate
where grass or weeds have grown to a height of eight inches (8") or more shall
cut, trim or remove, or cause the grass or weeds to be cut, trimmed or removed,
within ten (10) days after being notified to do so by a code enforcement
officer of the village. Any person who owns or controls real estate which is
contiguous to a parkway where grass or weeds have grown to a height of eight
inches (8") or more shall cut, trim or remove, or cause the grass or weeds to
be cut, trimmed or removed, within ten (10) days after being notified to do so
by a code enforcement officer of the village.
   C.   Height; Underbrush, Bushes And Shrubs: It shall be unlawful and a
nuisance for any person who owns or controls any real estate to permit the
growth of underbrush to a height of thirty inches (30") or more or to allow
shrubs and/or bushes to grow to a height which may constitute a safety or
health nuisance, and the owner shall cut, trim or remove or cause the same to
be cut, trimmed or removed within ten (10) days after being notified to do so
by the director of community development or other code enforcement officer.
   D.   Neglected Bushes, Landscape Plantings And Trees: It shall be unlawful
and constitute a public nuisance for any person who owns or controls any real
estate to permit bushes, landscape plantings and trees to grow on such real
estate or on the parkways contiguous to such real estate in a manner that
overhangs or encroaches onto adjacent public property, or hinders motor vehicle
or pedestrian travel on public rights of way or obstructs visual sightlines for
drivers of motor vehicles or pedestrians using public rights of way or
obstructs any intersection, pedestrian crosswalk, traffic control signage or
devices or otherwise creates a health and safety hazard for the public. Any
person who owns or controls any real estate where such a nuisance exists shall
take action to have the nuisance removed within ten (10) days after being
notified to do so by a code enforcement officer of the village.
   E.   Removal; Notice; Lien: If a person who owns or controls any real estate
violates subsection A, B, C or D of this section and fails to remedy the
violation within the ten (10) day period after receiving a corrective action
notice from a code enforcement officer of the village, then the director of
community development, or his/her designated representative, issuing the notice
shall notify the director of municipal services or a contractor engaged by the
village to remove the violation(s) existing at the real estate at the expense
of the owner of such real estate. The owner of the real estate shall be
obligated to reimburse the village for all costs associated with the removal of
the violation(s) incurred by the village, including any preparation, delivery
and disposal costs. If the owner of the real estate does not pay in full the
removal costs incurred by the village within thirty (30) days after being
billed, the village shall have a lien against the owner's real estate in an
amount equal to the amount of the bill, which has not been paid. See 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7 and 11-20-15.
   F.   Abatement: If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within
ten (10) days after such notice, the village manager, or his/her designated
representative, shall proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the
expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged to and paid by such
owner. Charges incurred to abate the nuisances under this section shall be a
lien upon the premises, as provided by statute. Whenever a bill for cutting
bushes, grass, landscape plants or weeds remains unpaid for thirty (30) days
after it has been rendered, the village manager, or his/her designated
representative, shall file with the Cook County recorder of deeds a notice of
lien claim. This lien claim shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill and a notice that the village claims a
lien in this amount.
   G.   Lien: Notice of the lien claim for removal activities performed to
abate the nuisances under this section shall be mailed by the village manager,
or his/her designated representative, to the owner of the premises whenever
such bill remains unpaid for a period of thirty (30) days after it has been
rendered. The failure of the village manager, or his/her designated
representative, to record such lien claim or to mail such notice or the failure
of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the
lien for unpaid bills for removal activities as provided herein. This lien upon
the real estate is superior to all other liens and encumbrances, except tax
liens and as otherwise provided by state law; provided that notice has been
given as herein described, and further provided that within one year after such
removal costs are incurred the village, or the person performing the service by
authority of the village, in his/her or its own name, files notice of lien in
the office of the recorder of deeds of Cook County. The notice shall consist of
a sworn statement setting out: 1) a description of the real estate sufficient
for identification thereof, including the identification of the real estate by
common description; 2) a description of the removal activities; 3) the amount
of money representing the removal costs; 4) the date (or dates) when such
removal costs were incurred by the village; and 5) a statement that the lien
has been filed pursuant to applicable provisions of this code and the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7, 11-20-8(d), 11-20-12(d),
11-20-13(e), 11-20-15, 11-20-15.1 or 11-31-1.01, as applicable.
   H.   Service Of Notice: Prior to filing the lien, the following notice shall
be personally served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person to whom the
tax bill was sent for the general taxes on the real estate for the last
preceding year. The notice shall be delivered or sent after the removal
activities have been performed. The notice shall state: 1) the substance of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15 and the substance of any ordinance
implementing those laws; 2) identify the real estate at issue by common
description; and 3) shall describe the removal activities. See 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7 and 11-20-15.
   I.   Abandoned Residential Real Estate; Removal; Lien: See process set forth
in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7 and 11-20-15.1.
   J.   Foreclosure Of Lien: See foreclosure process set forth in 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15(e) or 11-20-15.1(d).
   K.   Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the removal costs, the lien filing
fees and the release filing fees, by the owner of or persons interested in such
real estate after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by
the village or by the person in whose name the lien has been filed and the
release may be filed of record as in the case of filing a notice of lien. See
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15(h) or 11-20-15.1(e).
   L.   Incorporation Of Certain Provisions Of The Illinois Municipal Code: For
purposes of implementing and enforcing the applicable provisions of the
Illinois municipal code, as amended, that relate to property maintenance,
removal of nuisances, and filing and enforcing liens for associated removal
costs, the village incorporates by reference the following provisions and all
updates and amendments: Division 2 (ordinances) of the Illinois municipal code
1 , including, but not limited to, sections 11-20-6, 11-20-7, 11-20-11, 11-20-
12, 11-20-15 and 11-20-15.1. Any conflict between this code and the
incorporated provisions of the Illinois municipal code, as amended, shall be
resolved by following the state law provisions.
   M.   Violation; Fine And Penalty: Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation for each day that the
violation continues unabated after receipt of a village notice advising of the
violation, and each day after such notice that the violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense subject to a separate penalty. Such a fine shall be
in addition to any other fee or charge authorized pursuant to the terms of this
code. (Ord. 15-2803, 5-18-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 et seq.
5-1-3: INSANITARY BUILDINGS OR PREMISES:
Any building, structure or premises which is permitted to become a breeding
place for rats or other vermin or which is permitted to remain in an unclean or
insanitary condition so as to be prejudicial or dangerous to public health is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and subject to abatement as such. Any
person owning, occupying or in control of such building, structure or premises
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1978 Code §
4-1-3)
5-1-4: TREES OBSTRUCTING SEWERS OR DRAINS:
Any tree or shrub standing or growing on private real estate whose roots
obstruct or interfere with the free operation of any public or private sewer or
drain in the village is declared to be a public nuisance, and subject to
abatement. Any person owning, occupying or in control of any real estate upon
which such tree or shrub shall be standing or growing shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor. If any such person, within twenty (20) days after notice from
the director of municipal services, or his/her designated representative or
other code enforcement officer, shall fail to remove such tree and that tree's
roots, the director of municipal services, or his/her designated
representative, or other code enforcement officer, without prejudice to the
penalty provided, shall effect such removal at the expense of such person. See
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-10. (Ord. 15-2803, 5-18-2015)
5-1-5: COMMON LAW NUISANCES:
All acts or things which constitute nuisances at common law or by the law of
the state shall constitute nuisances under this code. (1978 Code §
4-1-5)
5-1-6: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
Whenever any nuisance exists or shall be found on any real estate within the
village, contrary to any provision of this code, the village manager, or his/
her designated representative, or the director of community development, or
his/her designated representative, may, in their discretion, cause the same to
be summarily abated in such manner as he/she may direct, and at the expense of
the person creating, permitting or maintaining such nuisance in accordance with
applicable state law. (Ord. 15-2803, 5-18-2015)
5-1-7: OBSTRUCTION OF WATERCOURSES:
   A.   Public Nuisance, Declaration: It is hereby declared that every
condition in and along any watercourse within the village, whether natural or
artificial, that slows or otherwise impedes the free flow of water of any part
of the watercourse or by blocking or retarding any part of the flow in any part
of the watercourse, or reduces the capacity of the watercourse by reducing the
depth of the watercourse at any point is a public nuisance.
   B.   Definitions:
OWNER: Any person holding title to, occupying or making use of any property
within the village limits, or the agent or manager of such person, or the
taxpayer listed for the immediately preceding year.
PERSON: Any natural or artificial personality, including, without limitation,
individuals, partnerships, corporations, associations, and governmental bodies
regardless of kind and character.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any condition enumerated in subsection A of this section.
WATERCOURSE: Any route that would carry substantial water at a time of high
precipitation and runoff, and includes, without limitation, those courses
commonly referred to as creeks, streams, channels, waterways and rivers,
whether of natural origin, artificial origin, or the result of channelization
or the relocation of a natural or artificial watercourse.
   C.   Violation: It shall be unlawful for any owner of land to permit
vegetation (including leaves, branches, roots, and other ramifications of
plants, trees and shrubs) to grow within or protrude into a watercourse or the
water flowing therein, or to allow the accumulation of silt, refuse, junk, or
debris within the watercourse on his property.
   D.   Notice Of Violation; Right To Inspect: The village, through its
authorized officers and employees, shall have the right to enter upon and
inspect land on which watercourses exist and to issue notice of violation on
owners of land on which the nuisance exists, ordering the abatement of such
nuisance, and it shall be the duty of the owner to comply with said notice.
   E.   Service Of Notice: The village manager, any village code enforcement
officer or sworn police officer shall have the authority to serve a notice of
violation upon the owner of the property, advising such person of the violation
and ordering that the nuisance be corrected or abated. Such notice shall be
personally served upon the owner or, if after due diligence the owner cannot be
located, shall be served by registered mail upon the legal titleholder or
taxpayer of record.
   F.   Failure To Comply; Legal Action: Failure of an owner to comply with a
notice of violation within a period of thirty (30) days after service of notice
shall authorize the village at its election to take legal action to compel the
owner, at the owner's cost, to abate the nuisance; and in addition, the village
may instruct the village attorney to file an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction to enjoin any conduct prohibited hereunder and for other
injunctive relief, including reimbursement of reasonable attorney fees to the
village, in order to restrain, correct, or abate the nuisance.
   G.   Penalty Provision: Any owner found guilty of violating these provisions
shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) each day that the violation continues
and each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense
subject to a separate penalty.
   H.   Relation To Flood Control Ordinance: This section shall not be
considered to supersede or to conflict with title 10, chapter 11 of this code.
(Ord. 98-2034, 4-27-1998)
CHAPTER 2
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Disturbing The Peace Prohibited
5-2-2: Illinois Noise Pollution Control Regulations Adopted
5-2-3: Limitations On Construction Noise
5-2-4: Limitations On Lawn Maintenance Equipment Noise
5-2-5: Limitations On Utility Equipment
5-2-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully make, continue or cause to be
made or continue any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise which
disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood, or which causes discomfort or
annoyance to any reasonable person of normal sensitiveness residing within the
corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
5-2-2: ILLINOIS NOISE POLLUTION CONTROL REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by reference as part of this code, for the purpose of
providing reasonable standards regarding noise pollution control, the state of
Illinois noise pollution control regulations, chapter 8, "noise regulations",
passed by the Illinois pollution control board on July 31, 1977, and as
subsequently amended, and the same is hereby adopted as the noise pollution
control code of the village. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
5-2-3: LIMITATIONS ON CONSTRUCTION NOISE:
   A.   Heavy Equipment: No person may use heavy equipment for construction
purposes except between seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:
00) P.M. Monday through Friday and between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. on Saturday and between twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and
four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on Sunday without having first obtained a written
permit from the department of code enforcement. In no case shall such equipment
be used on the following federal holidays: New Year's Day, Memorial Day,
Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. For purposes
of this chapter, "heavy equipment" shall mean bulldozers, jackhammers, pile
drivers, power hammers, chain saws, graders, riveters, earthmovers, tree and
stump grinders, trenchers, cement mixers, tractors, power hoists or derricks,
demolition balls, power shovels, trucks and power equipment on wheels or
traction chains. (Ord. 04-2293, 5-24-2004)
   B.   Other Tools: Tools other than heavy equipment for construction purposes
or "lawn maintenance equipment" as defined in section
5-2-4 of this chapter, may be used at any time within a fully enclosed
structure so long as use of said tools complies with all other applicable codes
and ordinances of the village; any use of such tools outside of a fully
enclosed structure except for snow removal equipment shall be permitted between
the hours of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on
Monday through Friday and between ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:
00) P.M. on Saturday and between twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and four o'clock
(4:00) P.M. on Sunday. (Ord. 98-2057, 10-26-1998)
   C.   Emergencies Excepted: This chapter shall not apply in any situation
which requires heavy equipment or other tools in emergencies to assist or avoid
a problem related to health or to safety of persons or property or to sewer,
water, power, utility or telephone interruptions.
   D.   Building Permits: All Western Springs building permits will be subject
to the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Work Benefiting Public Excepted: The limitations stated in subsections
A and B of this section may be waived by the board of trustees for work taken
by any public body or agency for the benefit of the public. The board of
trustees acting through the village manager or his designee may attach to any
such waiver all conditions it deems necessary to protect the public health,
safety or welfare. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
5-2-4: LIMITATIONS ON LAWN MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT NOISE:
   A.   Hours: No person may use lawn maintenance equipment except between the
following hours: 1) seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. on Monday through Friday; 2) nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:
00) P.M. on Saturdays; and 3) twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and four o'clock (4:
00) P.M. on Sundays and holidays. (Ord. 02-2206, 9-23-2002)
   B.   Definition: For purposes of this section, "lawn maintenance equipment"
shall mean lawn mowers of any type, weed trimmers of any type, leaf and grass
blowers of any type, mulchers, aerators, and any kind of mechanical noise
creating device customarily used to cut grass and weeds and to collect cut
grass and weeds. The term "lawn maintenance equipment" shall not include any
equipment identified as "heavy equipment" in subsection
5-2-3A of this chapter or any tool referred to in subsection
5-2-3B of this chapter. (Ord. 98-2057, 10-26-1998)
5-2-5: LIMITATIONS ON UTILITY EQUIPMENT NOISE:
   A.   Utility equipment located in the public right-of-way and in
residentially zoned districts shall be operated in such a manner so as to
minimize any possible disruption to residents and occupants of nearby buildings
caused by noise.
   B.   Backup generators, if needed, shall only be operated during periods of
power outages, and for no more than one (1) weekly testing period not to exceed
fifteen (15) minutes, and shall not be tested on weekends or holidays, or
between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   C.   Except during periods of power outages, or during testing authorized
pursuant to division B above, at no time shall any utility facility, or group
of ground or pole-mounted utility facilities, in a residentially zoned area, be
permitted to exceed forty five (45) dBA at a ground level distance of twenty
feet (20') as measured from the pole base or ground-mounted equipment, as
applicable, or exceed any other applicable noise levels imposed by codes
adopted by the Village. (Ord. 20-3002, 3-16-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3090, 7-11-2022)
CHAPTER 3
HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Disinfection Of Premises
5-3-2: Regulations Adopted
5-3-3: Obstructing Sewers
5-3-4: Stables; Animals
5-3-5: Diseased Animals
5-3-6: Conveying Offal
5-3-7: Manure
5-3-8: Storm Water Drainage
5-3-9: Dust; Noxious Matter
5-3-10: Offensively Saturated Ground
5-3-11: Exposure Of Matter Imperiling Health
5-3-12: Street Sweepings
5-3-13: Matters Detrimental To Health
5-3-14: Poison Ivy
5-3-15: Violations
5-3-1: DISINFECTION OF PREMISES:
The Department of Code Enforcement, all officers or agents or employees of said
Department and the police officers of the Village shall have power to cause any
house or premises to be cleaned, disinfected or closed to visitors, and to
prevent persons from resorting therein, while any person therein is afflicted
with any communicable or contagious disease; they may, by an order in writing,
direct any nuisance to be abated or unwholesome matter or substance, dirt or
filth to be removed from any house or premises and may prescribe the time and
mode of doing so, and take any other measures they may deem necessary and
proper to prevent the spread of any communicable, contagious or epidemic
disease. (1978 Code § 4-2-1; 1997 Code)
5-3-2: REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The Rules and Regulations for the Control of Communicable Diseases of the
Department of Public Health of the State of Illinois, in force September 1,
1945, and all subsequent revisions thereof, are hereby adopted and made a part
of this Chapter and shall be enforced as such. (1978 Code § 4-2-2)
5-3-3: OBSTRUCTING SEWERS:
No butcher's offal, garbage, dead animal, gas tar or by-product from any gas,
pickling or manufacturing establishment, or obstruction of any kind whatsoever,
shall be placed, thrown or deposited in any receiving basin or sewer; any
person so offending or causing any such obstruction or substance to be placed
so as to be carried into such basin or sewer shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor; any person damaging, breaking or removing any portion of any
receiving basin, covering flag, manhole, vent or any part of any sewer or
drain, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1978 Code § 4-2-19)
5-3-4: STABLES; ANIMALS:
The owner or keeper of any stable or place where any horses or other animals
may be kept shall cause the same to be kept at all times in a clean and
wholesome condition, and shall not allow any animal to be therein while
infected with any disease which is contagious or epidemic among such animals.
(1978 Code § 4-2-20)
5-3-5: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   Removal: Every person having within his possession or control or upon
any premises occupied or owned by him any dead animal or any diseased animal
past recovery, which is not proper for food and likely to become noxious and
detrimental to health, shall at once remove or cause the removal of such animal
to some proper place and, when such place is designated by the Department of
Code Enforcement, to the place so designated.
   B.   Diseased Or Sickly Animals: No diseased or sickly horse, cattle, swine,
sheep, dog, cat or other animal, nor any animal which has been exposed to any
disease that is contagious among such animals, shall be brought into the
Village.
   C.   Disposal Of Dead Animals: No person shall throw into or place or leave
in any street or public place or public water, or offensively expose or bury
anywhere within the Village, the body, or part thereof, of any dead or fatally
sick or injured animal, nor shall any person keep any dead animal, or any
offensive meat, bird, fowl or fish, in a place where the same may be dangerous
to the life or detrimental to the health of any person. (1978 Code § 4-2-21)
5-3-6: CONVEYING OFFAL:
No person shall drive through the public streets, ways or alleys of the Village
any wagon or vehicle which contains refuse meats or parts of any dead animals,
or garbage, or any other substance which emits a foul or disagreeable smell or
odor, to the annoyance and discomfort of any of the inhabitants of the Village.
Violation of this Section shall, without prejudice to the penalty hereinafter
provided, also constitute a nuisance, which may be abated as such and the wagon
or vehicle and the contents thereof be removed beyond the corporate limits of
the Village by the President, any police officer, any member of the Board of
Trustees, or any member of the Department of Code Enforcement of the Village.
(1978 Code § 4-2-23; 1997 Code)
5-3-7: MANURE:
Every person occupying or controlling any lot or any stable or other building
in the Village where horses or mules are kept shall deposit all manure which
shall be produced or brought thereon in a covered box or vault which shall be
provided for that purpose and which shall be kept closed to protect the
contents from flies. All manure shall be removed from said premises, at the
expense of the occupant or manager, at least once each week, and at such other
times as the Department of Code Enforcement may direct. (1978 Code § 4-2-24;
1997 Code)
5-3-8: STORM WATER DRAINAGE:
   A.   Discharge Into Sanitary Sewers Prohibited: No roof drains or downspouts
shall hereafter be connected to the sanitary sewer system anywhere in the
Village, nor shall any connection hereafter be made to the sanitary sewer
system of the Village so as to permit the flow of storm waters into any
sanitary sewer in the Village.
   B.   Permitted Discharges; Use Of Combined Sewers Prohibited:
      1.   All roofs shall be drained into the storm water system or shall
discharge onto the ground surface and shall not drain into the combined sewer
system or sewers intended for sanitary sewage only.
      2.   All existing downspouts which drain into the combined sewer system
or sanitary sewer system shall be disconnected from said sewers prior to August
1, 1963. (1978 Code § 4-2-25)
5-3-9: DUST; NOXIOUS MATTER:
No lime, ashes, coal, dry sand, hair, feathers or other substance that is
liable to be blown by the wind shall be sifted or agitated or exposed, no mat,
carpet, cloth or mop shall be shaken or beaten, and no cloth, yarn, garment or
other substance shall be scoured, cleaned or hung over or in any street or
public place or where particles set in motion thereby will pass into any street
or public place or into any occupied premises. No reasonable precaution shall
be omitted by any person to prevent fragments or other substances from falling
or dust and light material from flying into any street, place or building from
any building or structure while the same is being constructed, altered,
repaired or demolished. (1978 Code § 4-2-13)
5-3-10: OFFENSIVELY SATURATED GROUND:
No ground or material filled with offensive matter or substance which will emit
any offensive smell or noxious vapor shall be opened or the surface thereof
removed between May 1 and October 1 of any year, except under permit first
obtained from the Department of Code Enforcement. (1978 Code § 4-2-14; 1997
Code)
5-3-11: EXPOSURE OF MATTER IMPERILING HEALTH:
No person shall take, carry, expose or place in or upon any street or public
place any substance, animal or thing which shall imperil the health of any
person who is or may properly be in such street or place. (1978 Code § 4-2-15)
5-3-12: STREET SWEEPINGS:
Except for autumn leaves, no debris shall be deposited in the Village streets,
and autumn leaves shall not be piled or raked together in any street or place,
before the removal thereof, for more than a reasonable time, nor for more than
four (4) hours in the daytime, except by special permission of the Director of
Public Works. (1978 Code § 4-2-16; 1997 Code)
5-3-13: MATTERS DETRIMENTAL TO HEALTH:
   A.   Prohibitions Generally: No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle or
thing used or to be used for any purpose whatever, shall be made, kept,
maintained or operated in the Village if the use, keeping, maintaining or
operating of such building, vehicle, structure, receptacle or thing shall be
the occasion of any nuisance or dangerous or detrimental to health.
   B.   Prohibitions Relating To Business And Labor: No substance, matter or
thing of any kind whatever which shall be dangerous or detrimental to health
shall be used in connection with any permitted business, or allowed to exist in
connection therewith, or to be used in any work or labor carried on in the
Village, and no nuisance shall be permitted to exist in connection with any
business or in connection with any such work or labor. (1978 Code § 4-2-17)
5-3-14: POISON IVY:
No owner, lessee or other person in control of any parcel of land within the
Village shall permit or maintain thereon any growth of poison ivy or other
similar noxious plant whereby the health of the public or of any person
lawfully upon or passing by said land may be endangered. Any such plant
existing in violation of this Section shall constitute a nuisance. (1978 Code §
4-2-18)
5-3-15: VIOLATIONS:
The Department of Code Enforcement shall cause any person guilty of violating
any health provisions of this Code or any rule or regulation of the Department
of Code Enforcement to be prosecuted for such violations. (1978 Code § 4-2-26;
1997 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE, LANDSCAPE WASTE AND RECYCLING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Receptacles; Specifications
5-4-3: Collection
5-4-4: Deposit Of Materials For Collection
5-4-5: Disposal Of Collected Material
5-4-6: Collection Rates
5-4-7: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-4-8: Compost Piles
5-4-9: Lien For Removal
5-4-10: Violations; Penalty
CROSS REFERENCES
   Title 3 (Business Regulations), Chapter 3 (Licensed Businesses And
Occupations; Schedule Of Fees), Section 3-3-2 (License Fees)
   Title 3 (Business Regulations), Chapter 6 (Special Business Regulations
III), Article B (Scavengers)
STATUTORY REFERENCES
   Disposal Of Refuse, Garbage And Ashes In Municipalities, 65 ILCS 5/11-19-
1 et seq.
   Household Goods Recycling Bins, 65 ILCS 5/11-42-16
   Illinois Environmental Protection Act (Land Pollution and Refuse Disposal),
415 ILCS 5/20 et seq.
   Illinois Motor Vehicle Code (Spilling Loads On Highways Prohibited), 625
ILCS 5/15-109 et seq.
   Illinois Solid Waste Management Act, 415 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
   Litter Control Act, 415 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
   Local Solid Waste Disposal Act, 415 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
   Removal Of Garbage And Debris, 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13
   Removal Of Landscape Waste, 65 ILCS 5/11-42-14
   Solid Waste Hauling and Recycling Program Act, 415 ILCS 12/1 et seq.
   Solid Waste Planning and Recycling Act, 415 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BACK DOOR SERVICE: See definition of "Rear Door Service."
BULK ITEMS: Any item of municipal solid waste, as herein defined, which is not
able to be adequately reduced to fit in a Village approved municipal solid
waste cart, including but not limited to: discarded bed frames, furniture,
fixtures, mattresses, tables, rolls of carpet (no longer than four feet
eighteen inches (4'18") in diameter) and small amounts of construction or
demolition debris. The weight limit for each bulk item is sixty (60) pounds.
Customers are required to contact the contractor to arrange for and pay a
special pickup service fee for any bulk items that exceed the limitations of
this Code.
COMMERCIAL SERVICE: The collection of solid waste at business establishments,
religious and civic organizations, construction work sites, industrial
establishments and dwelling units containing more than four (4) units by a
scavenger company licensed by the Village.
COMPOST PILE: A pile or collection of organic materials enclosed in a
freestanding bin, which is maintained for noncommercial, private home gardening
use, expressly constructed for the purpose of obtaining decomposed organic
matter and consisting of one or more of the following materials: leaves, grass
clippings, garden debris, excluding branches and shrubs, and manure.
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS: Shall have the same meaning as in the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq. and the regulations adopted
thereunder.
CONTRACTOR: Any scavenger company licensed by the Village to collect and
dispose of any type of waste covered under this Code. In regard to the
Village's residential service program (as defined below), the term "contractor"
means one (1) or more of the scavenger companies licensed by the village who
collect and dispose of any type of waste covered under this Code pursuant to a
Village-approved collection and disposal agreement.
CURBSIDE RECYCLING PROGRAM: Recyclable materials will be collected from
residential units one (1) time per week on the designated collection day that
solid waste is regularly collected. The curbside recycling program is available
only to residential unit owners or occupants who maintain a monthly service
subscription with the contractor.
CURBSIDE SERVICE: The service level where a residential unit owner is required
to set out all of his or her solid waste, recyclable materials and other items
covered by the Village-approved collection and disposal agreement at the street
curb of his or her residence on the collection day for pick-up by the
contractor, who is obligated to pick-up only such solid waste, recyclable
materials and other covered items set out at the street curb as part of the
Village's waste and recycling program. "Curbside service" is available only to
residential unit owners or occupants who maintain a monthly service
subscription with the contractor.
ELECTRONIC WASTE or E-RECYCLABLE ITEMS: Any item defined as a "covered
electronic device" by 415 ILCS 150, the Illinois Electronics Products Recycling
and Refuse Act. "E-recyclable items" shall include, but not be limited to,
computers, computer monitors, televisions, printers, keyboards, fax machines,
videocassette recorders, portable digital music players, digital video disc
players, video game consoles, computer mice, scanners, digital converter boxes,
cable receivers, satellite receivers, digital video disc recorders or small-
scale servers, or any other electronic device banned from landfill disposal by
the State of Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Electronic Products Recycling
and Reuse Act.
EXCLUDED WASTE: Materials that will not be collected by the contractor,
including: earth, sod, rocks, concrete, refuse from remodeling or construction
of homes, trees or parts thereof (with the exception of branches six inch (6")
or less in diameter), vehicle batteries, large automobile parts, automobile or
other vehicle tires, and dead animals larger than ten (10) pounds. However,
"excluded waste" does not include small amounts of earth and sod when placed in
proper disposable containers used for landscape waste. In addition, "excluded
waste" includes hazardous waste, medical waste and special waste (as defined by
applicable law or regulation), or any waste which requires a special permit or
cannot be disposed of at an Illinois sanitary landfill or at a transfer station
used by the contractor.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Waste or combination of wastes which, because of its quantity,
concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may cause
or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in
serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or pose a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when
improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of, or otherwise managed,
or which has been identified, by characteristics or listing, as being hazardous
or having such impacts pursuant to Section 3001 of the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act of 1976 (P.L. 94-580), pursuant to Pollution Control Board,
Federal Regulations or other applicable laws, ordinances or regulations.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree
limbs, trees and other material accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees, which are generated by a residential unit.
Christmas trees will be considered landscape waste, but may be collected by the
contractor under a special pick-up schedule.
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE: Solid waste resulting from the operation of Village
buildings, facilities and properties, other Village-designated public
buildings, facilities and properties, the Downtown Business District and from
Village-sponsored special events and other community activities.
PAY-PER-BAG COLLECTION PROGRAM: The "pay-per-bag" collection program operates
through the sale of service stickers ("refuse/yard waste stickers") to be
affixed to carts, other than those rented from the contractor, cans, garbage
bags and biodegradable landscape bags that do not exceed thirty-three (33)
gallons in volume or sixty (60) pounds in weight. One (1) sticker shall be
affixed to each cart, can, garbage bag or biodegradable landscape bag. The
carts, cans, garbage bags and biodegradable landscape bags shall be purchased
by the residential unit owner. Stickered garbage bags shall be placed outside
of the wheeled refuse cart by curbside service customers and rear door service
customers. For landscape waste, stickered carts, other than those rented from
the contractor, cans and biodegradable landscape bags shall be placed curbside
for collection. The "pay-per-bag" collection program is only available to
residential unit owners who maintain a monthly service subscription for
residential service with the contractor.
REAR DOOR SERVICE: Collection of contractor-provided wheeled carts of solid
waste, at detached single-family and attached single-family dwellings of four
(4) units or less, including all extra refuse except bulk items, construction
debris, e-recyclable items, landscape waste and white goods. Additional wheeled
carts or acceptable sized containers or acceptable sized garbage bags will be
collected if a refuse/yard waste service sticker is affixed to each wheeled
cart or acceptable sized container or acceptable sized garbage bag in excess of
the applicable service subscription. Residents may lease a thirty-five (35),
sixty-five (65) or ninety-five (95) gallon (or equivalent size) cart from the
contractor for use in disposal of solid waste and may lease a thirty-five (35),
sixty-five (65) or ninety-five (95) gallon (or equivalent size) cart for use in
disposal of recyclable materials. Rear door service is available only to
residential unit owners or occupants who maintain a monthly service
subscription with the contractor.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Those materials specified in this Code or in the Village-
approved collection and disposal agreement, which are to be collected for
recycling or reuse and which are generated by residential units and by the
Village's and other designated public buildings, facilities and properties,
Downtown Business District and Village-sponsored events and festivals.
REFUSE/YARD WASTE STICKER: Those stickers printed and sold by the contractor
for use by residential unit owners for the disposal of bulk items, e-
recyclables, landscape waste, solid waste or white goods in accordance with
this Code or the Village-approved collection and disposal agreement. Refuse/
yard waste stickers are only available for use by residential unit owners who
maintain a monthly service subscription with the contractor.
RESIDENTIAL SERVICE: The collection of bulk items, e-recyclables, landscape
waste, recyclable materials, solid waste or white goods at all single-family
dwellings and all single-family attached dwellings containing four (4) or less
dwelling units by one (1) or more scavenger companies licensed by the Village
to collect and dispose of waste pursuant to a Village-approved collection and
disposal agreement and the provisions of this Code. "Residential service" shall
also be known as the Village's "waste and recycling program."
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: Only single-family residential structures and any residential
unit located in a single-family attached or a multiple-family structure of up
to and including four (4) units and which is located within the corporate
limits of the Village.
SERVICE SUBSCRIPTION ("MONTHLY SERVICE SUBSCRIBER"): A resident or residential
unit who has registered with the contractor to receive residential service.
Under the service subscription, residents lease a thirty-five (35), sixty-five
(65) or ninety-five (95) gallon (or equivalent size) wheeled cart from the
contractor for use in disposal of solid waste and lease a thirty-five (35),
sixty-five (65) or ninety-five (95) gallon (or equivalent size) wheeled cart
for use in disposal of recyclable materials. The cost of the collection service
depends on the cart sizes and number of leased carts (the "service level") and
whether curbside service or rear door service is selected.
SOLID WASTE: Refuse, garbage or other discarded material generated by those
residing in residential units and by those occupying non-residential structures
within the Village, including all waste, as defined by Section 3.53 of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/3.53, which is not hazardous,
and other discarded or abandoned material including, without limitation,
garbage, refuse, rubbish, bulk items and small amounts of building materials
and construction or demolition debris, or other similar waste. "Solid waste"
shall not include bulk items, construction debris, e-recyclables, hazardous
waste, landscape waste, recyclable materials and white goods.
VILLAGE: The Village of Western Springs, a non-home rule Illinois municipal
corporation.
WHEELED CART ("TOTER CART" or "RECEPTACLE"): A wheeled container approved by
the Village having a capacity of thirty-five (35) gallons or sixty-five (65)
gallons or ninety-five (95) gallons (or equivalent size) constructed of a
suitable gauge and material and with a tight-fitting cover so as to be capable
of securely containing garbage, refuse, landscape waste, or recyclable
materials.
WHITE GOODS: Appliances such as stoves, refrigerators, washers, dryers, water
heaters, furnaces, air conditioners, freezers, dehumidifiers, and any other
item defined as such by the Illinois Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/
1 et seq.). (1978 Code § 4-3-1; amd. Ord. 90-1799, 6-25-1990; Ord. 19-2981, 11-
25-2019)
5-4-2: RECEPTACLES; SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Receptacles Required: The owner or occupant of every building,
residential unit or commercial establishment where persons live or conduct
business of any kind, or where food of any kind is handled, prepared or
consumed, shall use and at all times maintain in good order and repair, metal
or plastic receptacles for ashes, landscape waste, recyclable materials and
solid waste that comply with this Code. If a Village-licensed scavenger company
supplies receptacles for the collection and disposal of solid waste and
recyclable materials, such owners and occupants are required to use the
contractor-supplied receptacles. Use of receptacles not supplied by the
contractor is permitted only in accordance with this Code or the Village-
approved collection and disposal agreement.
   B.   Receptacle Specifications: Receptacles shall be watertight with close
fitting covers. Residents who receive residential service from the Village's
contractor shall use the contractor-provided receptacles, which have capacities
of thirty five (35) gallons, sixty five (65) gallons or ninety five (95)
gallons. For all other receptacles, they shall have handles, be in good order
and repair, and shall not exceed thirty three (33) gallons in capacity and when
filled, shall weigh more than sixty (60) pounds.
   C.   Location And Placement Of Receptacles: Receptacles, if stored outside,
shall be placed in a convenient spot in the rear or on the side of all
buildings, or at such location as the village Manager may direct, in order that
the receptacles remain out of public view and may be conveniently and
economically serviced. Such receptacles shall not be placed by the owner or
occupant in the Village parkway or in the front yard, except for collection
days. No wheeled carts or other receptacles or biodegradable yard waste bags
with approved stickers and bundled brush or limbs with the approved stickers
shall be placed nearer to the street than within the parkway behind the curb
line except on designated collection days or no earlier than six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. the day prior to the collection day and no later than six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. the collection day. It shall be the responsibility of the resident or
customer to place such receptacles in the parkway at the curbline unless the
scavenger provides backdoor service. All containers, refuse, construction
debris, landscape waste or other material not collected shall be removed from
the specified location within twenty four (24) hours after the scavenger has
been present for the purpose of collection and disposal; and the scavenger's
refusal to collect such garbage and/or refuse based upon the failure of any
customer to pay a scavenger bill does not limit the requirements provided for
herein. (Ord. 91-1813, 2-11-1991; amd. Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-2019)
5-4-3: COLLECTION:
   A.   Jurisdiction: The Village shall enter into an exclusive collection and
disposal contract for a residential scavenger to provide residential service to
residential units within the Village. The Village may enter into an exclusive
contract or may issue an unlimited number of licenses for commercial scavengers
to provide collection, recycling and disposal services to multi-family dwelling
buildings (more than four (4) dwelling units) and commercial establishments in
the Village.
   B.   Private Scavengers Prohibited: The employment of private scavengers by
an owner or occupant of a residential unit property in the Village for the
disposal of solid waste and e-recyclables shall not be allowed.
   C.   Solid Waste Collection:
      1.   a.   Exclusive Solid Waste Collection And Disposal Contract For
Residential Units: The Village shall enter into an exclusive contract with a
residential scavenger licensed by the Village for the collection and disposal
of solid waste from all residential units in the Village. All owners or
occupants of residential units shall be served by, and exclusively by, the
licensed Village collector and shall pay the related service costs, and all
such owners or occupants of residential units are prohibited from hiring any
private scavenger service in lieu of the licensed Village contractor.
         b.   Permitted Receptacles, Scope Of Services And Service Costs: See
the collection and disposal contract with the residential scavenger licensed by
the Village, which is available on-line at the Village's website
(www.westernsprings.com).
      2.   Solid Waste Collection And Disposal From Other Dwellings And
Buildings: The owners, occupants or persons in charge of commercial and
industrial buildings and of multiple-family dwellings of more than four (4)
units, including, without limitation, condominiums in buildings containing more
than four (4) units, shall arrange for the collection and disposal of their
solid waste, at their own expense, by Village licensed scavengers.
   D.   Landscape Waste Collection:
      1.   a.   Collection And Disposal Contract For Residential Units: The
Village shall enter into a contract with a landscape waste collector licensed
by the Village for collection and disposal of landscape waste from all owners
or occupants of residential units in the Village. Owners or occupants of
residential units may use the licensed Village landscape waste collector,
provided they pay the related service costs, or may use any private landscape
contractor in lieu of the licensed Village collector. Unless properly
composted, all landscape waste shall be properly placed for collection by the
licensed Village collector or a private landscaping contractor in accordance
with applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations.
         b.   Permitted Receptacles, Scope Of Services And Service Costs: See
the collection and disposal contract with the landscape waste collector
licensed by the Village, which is available on-line at the Village's website
(www.westernsprings.com).
   E.   Recyclables Collection: Collection Contract For Recyclable Materials
From Residential Units: As part of its solid waste collection and disposal
contract for residential units, the Village shall enter into a contract with a
recyclables collector licensed by the Village for the collection and recycling
of various recyclable materials from all residential units in the Village. Each
owner or occupant of a residential unit shall participate in the curbside
recycling program conducted by the licensed Village collector and shall pay the
related service costs, but he or she may also decide to use any other
recyclables contractor licensed by the Village, or may participate in any other
available recycling program.
   F.   Collection And Disposal: All bulk items, e-recyclables, landscape
waste, special pick-up, recyclable materials, solid waste or white goods
collected and disposed of only in accordance with this Code and/or the Village-
approved collection and disposal agreement, and no such bulk items, e-
recyclables, landscape waste, special pick-up, recyclable materials, solid
waste or white goods shall be allowed to accumulate outdoors on any property or
premises within the Village beyond the regular collection day or special pick-
up day, unless such materials are placed inside a toter cart or other
permitted, secured receptacle. If bulk items, e-recyclables, landscape waste,
recyclable materials, special pick-up, solid waste or white goods are of such
character or quantity that the regular collectors making the regular trips do
not collect it, then the owner or occupant of such premises shall make a
request for special service within twenty four (24) hours after the
accumulation thereof. For such special service, the contractor shall make a
reasonable charge. (1978 Code § 4-3-3)
   G.   Theft Of Recyclables: It shall be unlawful for any person to collect,
obtain, possess or pick up any recyclable item placed for collection in front
of a residence as part of the Village's recycling program unless said person is
licensed as the exclusive contractor for the collection and removal of
residential solid waste, including recyclables, under the provisions of title
3, chapter 6, article B of this Code.
   H.   Hours Of Operation: Collection services of bulk items, e-recyclables,
landscape waste, special pick-up, recyclable materials, solid waste or white
goods by any residential, commercial or intermittent scavenger licensed by the
Village shall begin no earlier than seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and shall end by
five o'clock (5:00) P.M. (Ord. 91-1814, 1-28-1991; amd. Ord. 02-2205, 8-19-
2002; Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-2019)
5-4-4: DEPOSIT OF MATERIALS FOR COLLECTION:
Each occupant, tenant or person in possession of any house, building, store or
apartment shall cause all garbage and refuse brought into or produced therein
to be deposited in the appropriate receptacles as follows:
   A.   Household Garbage: Household garbage shall be thoroughly drained of all
surplus liquid and securely wrapped in paper, plastic or packaged in a covered
box or carton of combustible material. Refuse shall be securely wrapped in such
a manner so as to prevent scattering or blowing by the wind. Refuse not subject
to blowing or scattering due to weight factors need not be wrapped. Receptacle
covers shall be securely fitted on receptacles at all times when garbage or
refuse is in the receptacles. (1978 Code § 4-3-4; amd. 1997 Code)
   B.   Yard Debris: Throughout the Village, grass, shrubbery clippings, brush
or small branches (under three inches (3") in diameter) and the like, may be
placed at the curb for pick up within the same time period, provided such
grass, shrubbery clippings, brush or small branches are enclosed in cart, can
or biodegradable brown paper bags ("kraft" bags) with a capacity of thirty
three (33) gallons or less or not exceeding sixty (60) pounds in weight, which
cart, can or bag shall have affixed a sticker approved by the Village and the
Village's designated residential waste hauler. Branches, shrub prunings and
larger diameter tree limbs (up to three inches (3") in diameter) may also be
placed at the curb in bundles not exceeding four feet (4') in length and not
exceeding sixty (60) pounds in weight. Such bundles shall be tied with
biodegradable natural fiber twine and on which shall be affixed the approved
sticker.
   C.   Noxious, Offensive Matter: All obnoxious or offensive matter, including
human and animal excrement, shall be wrapped in plastic bags and securely tied
or double wrapped in paper bags which shall be securely closed. (Ord. 90-1799,
6-25-1990; amd. Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-2019)
5-4-5: DISPOSAL OF COLLECTED MATERIAL:
All solid waste, recyclable materials and any other type of material collected
in the Village shall be removed and disposed of outside the corporate limits of
the Village before the close of business on the day collected. (Ord. 86-1712,
9-29-1986; amd. Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-2019)
5-4-6: COLLECTION RATES:
   A.   1.   Collection, Removal And Disposal Rates: The collection, removal
and disposal rates for bulk items, e-recyclables, landscape waste, special
pick-up, recyclable materials, solid waste, white goods and municipal solid
waste generated within the Village and for residential service, special pickup
services and annual cleanup services are set forth in a collection and disposal
agreement (the "agreement") approved and entered into by the Village of Western
Springs with a waste collection and disposal company (the "contractor"). The
agreement is competitively bid by the Village from time to time. The agreement,
and any addendum thereto, are approved by the President and Board of Trustees
of the Village by a resolution adopted at an open, public meeting. This
agreement is typically a multi-year service contract and may be extended or
renewed by the Village. The current agreement in effect, and any addendum
thereto, are incorporated by reference in their entirety into this section upon
approval by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village, and are posted
on the Village's website and copies are available from the Village Clerk's
Office upon request. The schedule of collection, removal and disposal rates
payable by each residential customer as set forth in the agreement, and any
addendum thereto, are incorporated by reference in their entirety into this
section. The collection, removal and disposal rates charged to each residential
property owner are subject to annual or periodic increases as provided for in
the agreement and any addendum thereto. The authorized contractor shall not
charge any fees in excess of those established in the agreement, and any
addendum thereto.
      2.   Charges Assigned To The Village (Annual Clean-Up Event And Annual
NEAT Spring Saturday Clean-Up Event): Under the agreement, the contractor is
required to perform collection and disposal services for the annual clean-up
event and the annual NEAT spring Saturday clean-up event and the Village is
responsible for paying to the authorized contractor the annual service costs
for those events. To collect the necessary funds to pay such costs, the Village
shall bill each residential property owner a fixed dollar amount each year,
based on the annual costs of the events as set forth in the agreement, and any
addendum thereto, and such fixed dollar amount may be increased as is necessary
to satisfy its financial obligations under the agreement. To the extent other
collection programs that benefit the Village's residents are agreed to by the
Village and the contractor that require the Village to pay for some or all of
the program(s), such costs shall be allocated and charged to each residential
property owner as set forth in the agreement, and any addendum thereto. The
agreement, and any addendum thereto, are incorporated by reference in their
entirety into this subsection.
   B.   Billing:
      1.   Village: The Village may collect the charges that it is responsible
to pay under the agreement, and any addendum thereto, by billing the
residential property owners on a monthly basis or periodic basis. The Village
may place the appropriate charge on the monthly utility statements sent to the
residential property owners or may use separate billing statements.
      2.   Contractor: The contractor shall be responsible for billing the
residential and commercial customers in accordance with the agreement, and any
addendum thereto.
   C.   Schedule Of Rates: A schedule of collection, removal and disposal rates
and any changes to these rates shall be furnished by the contractor to each
customer in accordance with the applicable provisions of the agreement and any
addendum thereto. A current copy of the schedule of collection, removal and
disposal rates posted on the Village's website and copies are available from
the Village Clerk's Office upon request. (Ord. 18-2943, 12-17-2018; amd. Ord.
19-2981, 11-25-2019)
5-4-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Scattering Of Matter: No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit
anywhere within the Village any substance, article or thing defined in section
5-4-1  of this Code, in such a manner that it or any of them may be carried or
deposited by the action of the sun, wind, rain or snow, into or upon any
street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other public place, or upon any
private premises.
   B.   Sifting Materials: No ashes, coal, lime or other substance that is in a
similar manner liable to be blown by the wind, shall be sifted or exposed over
or in any street or public place, or in any place within the Village where
particles therefrom set in motion thereby will pass into any such street or
public place, or upon any private premises. (1978 Code § 4-3-7)
   C.   Waste In Streets And Alleys:
      1.   Garbage And Refuse: No person shall deposit or place in or upon any
sidewalk, street, alley, parkway or public place in the Village, any garbage,
refuse or waste of any kind; provided, that this subsection shall not apply to
the deposit of material under a permit authorized by an ordinance of the
Village, nor to goods, wares or merchandise deposited upon any street,
sidewalk, alley or other public place temporarily in the necessary course of
trade and removed therefrom within two (2) hours after being so deposited; nor
to articles or things deposited in or conducted into the Village sewerage
system through lawful drains, in accordance with the ordinances of the Village
relating thereto.
      2.   Yard Debris: No yard debris such as grass clippings, brush, tree
branches or limbs, shrubbery clippings and the like, shall be blown, placed or
deposited in any manner in any street or alley or in a public way or on public
property, except in approved biodegradable bags or designated yard waste carts,
cans or containers or tied in bundles for the express purpose of proper pick up
and removal by an approved Village licensed scavenger service. (Ord. 90-1799,
6-25-1990; amd. Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-2019)
5-4-8: COMPOST PILES:
All compost piles shall be maintained using composting procedures which comply
with the following requirements:
   A.   Compost Bins: All compost piles shall be enclosed in a freestanding
compost bin. Each compost bin shall be no taller than five feet (5') in height
and five feet (5') wide and should be constructed to prevent compost material
from being windblown. The compost bin shall be located in the rear yard and
shall be set back from the rear or side lot lines no less than three feet (3')
and shall be located twenty five feet (25') or more from any neighboring
residence.
   B.   Offensive Condition Prohibited: The depositing of garbage, pet waste,
meat scraps or other materials which are not suitable for compost piles or that
may attract animals or vermin to the compost pile or which may provide an
obnoxious odor shall be prohibited. The presence of rodents in or near the
compost pile shall be cause for the bin to be declared a nuisance and
prosecuted under this Code. (Ord. 90-1799, 6-25-1990; amd. Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-
2019)
5-4-9: LIEN FOR REMOVAL:
Each owner of real property shall cause all garbage, refuse and waste to be
removed from such property in accordance with the provisions of this Code. If,
after ten (10) days from receipt of notice from the Department of Code
Enforcement, any owner of real property refuses or neglects to cause any
garbage, refuse or waste to be removed from such property, the Village shall
have the right to enter such property and remove such of the above at the
owner's expense. The costs incurred by the Village in such removal shall be a
lien upon the real property affected in accordance with the provisions of 65
ILCS 5/11-20-13 and 5/11-20-15, as amended, and in accordance with any further
amendments thereto. Upon payment of the expenses by the owner of or persons
interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the Village and the release may be filed of record as in the
case of filing notice of lien. The lien may be enforced at any time by the
village filing a lien foreclose proceeding as allowed by applicable state law.
(1978 Code § 4-3-10; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998; Ord. 19-2981,
11-25-2019)
5-4-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Noncompliance: Any person failing to comply with the
regulations set forth herein shall be notified of noncompliance by the
contractor and shall be advised of the proper disposal procedures. (1978 Code §
4-3-11)
   B.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of a violation of any provision set
forth herein shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this Code. (1978 Code § 4-3-11; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 19-2981, 11-25-
2019)
CHAPTER 5
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Preservation
5-5-4: Tree Care
5-5-5: Tree Permit Requirements Generally
5-5-6: Planting Trees
5-5-7: Legacy And Underrepresented Tree Preservation
5-5-8: Trimming And Spraying Trees
5-5-9: Protection Of Existing Trees
5-5-10: Tree Removal
5-5-11: Tree Replacement
5-5-12: Special Rules For Conservancy Or Preservation Areas
5-5-13: Tree Preservation And/Or Removal Plan For Significant Removals,
Construction And/Or Development
5-5-14: Nuisance Trees
5-5-15: Invasive Species Control
5-5-16: Restricted And Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-5-17: Dutch Elm Disease And Emerald Ash Borer
5-5-18: Replacement Of Damaged And/Or Destroyed Trees
5-5-19: Properties And Recreation Committee
5-5-20: Penalty
5-5-21: Enforcement
5-5-22: Exceptions
5-5-23: Variances; Appeals
5-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for conservation and regulation of
the Village's public tree resources. This Chapter of the Code is structured to
preserve, protect and enhance critical infrastructure and the portion of the
urban forest that is located on public land. The complete urban forest is
comprised of trees across all land uses and ownership on public and private
land. This Chapter will regulate public property trees but recognizes that
trees on private property are part of the collective community resource.
The purpose of this Chapter is to recognize the services and function that
trees provide as a collective asset to the entire community and to state the
goals of the Village with respect to the protection, preservation, care and
planting of trees on public lands.
Specific goals of this section are to:
   A.   Protect, preserve and enhance the quality of life and general welfare
of the Village, its residents and its property owners; and conserve and enhance
the Village's natural, physical and aesthetic environment.
   B.   Preserve, protect and enhance the urban forest to ensure that trees are
properly planted and maintained within the Village so that trees can protect,
enhance and preserve the quality of life for people within the Village.
   C.   Recognize that trees are an integral part of the infrastructure of the
Village and as such should be preserved, protected and cared for as other
critical Village infrastructure.
      1.   Trees absorb pollution from the air;
      2.   Trees absorb and sequester carbon dioxide;
      3.   Trees absorb and filter pollution from stormwater run-off;
      4.   Trees produce oxygen;
      5.   Trees reduce flooding;
      6.   Trees stabilize soils and reduce erosion;
      7.   Trees cool the surrounding area helping to reduce impacts due to
heat islands;
      8.   Trees reduce energy consumption by shielding structures from harsh
winds and sun;
      9.   Trees provide a buffer and screen against noise, light and
pollution;
      10.   Trees improve property values;
      11.   Trees improve commercial district buyer traffic and purchasing;
      12.   Areas with trees have lower crime rates;
      13.   Areas with trees have higher levels of community interaction;
      14.   Trees provide important habitat for birds and other wildlife; and
      15.   Trees protect and enhance our quality of life.
   D.   Trees provide the Village collective benefits that extend beyond
property boundaries throughout the entire Village.
   E.   Recognize that larger trees provide larger benefits. When a large tree
is removed and replaced with a smaller tree the benefits and services are
reduced.
   F.   Recognize that some trees may have a condition that constitutes a
threat, danger or nuisance to the public or property within the Village or may
be dangerous to the health of other trees and vegetation in the Village. (Ord.
20-3006, 6-22-2020)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to other definitions contained in this code, the following
definitions shall apply to the enforcement of this Chapter.
APPLICANT: An owner of a lot, parcel or tract of land for which an application
has been filed for a permit, subdivision, or any activity requiring the
issuance of a permit. A contractor is an agent, acting on behalf of the
applicant - the landowner.
ARBORIST: Any individual experienced in the profession of forestry or a related
field and is licensed or certified in forestry by an accredited forestry
industry body, e.g. International Society of Arboriculture.
AREA: The portion of a property within which development activity, including
grading, excavation, storage of materials, construction access and construction
of both main buildings and unattached structures.
BUCKTHORN: An undesirable exotic invasive ornamental shrub introduced to North
America. This species inhabits woodlands and savannas where it dominates the
landscape prohibiting the development of native trees and plants. There are six
(6) species of buckthorn listed in the Illinois Exotic Weed Act, which
prohibits the sale, distribution or planting of this species, Rhamnus
cathartica, davurica, frangula, argula, utilis, and japonica.
CANOPY: The upper portion of a tree sometimes called the crown. This section of
the tree usually contains branches and leaves.
CONSERVANCY OR PRESERVATION AREA (EASEMENT): An area under legal restriction
within which the following requirements are enforced:
   1.   All existing vegetation shall be preserved for the purpose of retaining
the natural character or special environmental state or control;
   2.   Any area with a special designation providing screening from adjacent
uses or a public or private street;
   3.   No plant material shall be removed from or planted in a conservancy or
preservation area without a permit from the Village authorizing removal or
planting;
   4.   Conservancy or preservation areas may be established as part of the
subdivision process or through the issuance of a special use permit;
   5.   No undesignated structures, including fencing shall be located in a
conservancy or preservation area;
   6.   Other restrictions as defined on the plat; and
   7.   In all instances the approved language on the plat shall prevail.
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: An area on the ground extending out from the trunk of the
tree in all directions a distance of at least one foot (1') for every inch DBH.
CUTTING: Felling or removal of a tree, or any procedure that results in the
death or substantial destruction of a tree. Cutting that does not include
normal pruning or trimming of trees consistent with good forestry practices.
DAMAGE: Impact or loss of function to any tree including but not limited to:
removal, root compaction, root removal, girdling, soil contamination, topping,
pruning more than twenty percent (20%) of the trees, canopy removal, bark
removal, poisoning and/or actions resulting in the decline or death of a tree.
DECIDUOUS TREE: A deciduous tree is one that loses most or all of its leaves
for part of the year.
DEVELOPMENT: Any proposed change in the use or character of land, including,
but not limited to the replacement of any structure or site improvements, e.g.
irrigation installation, driveway replacement, installation of a retaining
wall, among others. When appropriate to the context, development may refer to
the receipt or necessity of any building, tree or site work permit. (See the
Landscape Ordinance for more information.)
DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT: The diameter of the trunk of the tree measured in
inches at a point four and one half feet (4.5') above ground line. This
forestry standard measurement is used for established and mature trees and is
referred to as "DBH". All reference to diameter size shall be to the DBH.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROFESSIONAL: A degreed environmental scientist, biologist,
botanist, forester, other similarly degreed and/or licensed plant professional
with at least five (5) years' experience in planting and maintaining native
plants and their associated natural ecosystems.
EVERGREEN TREE: A tree that retains most of its leaves for most of the year.
FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN: A detailed plan developed and approved by the Village
under the direction of a certified arborist or forester which protects this
valuable infrastructure and outlines thoughtful strategies for tree planting,
selection, care and preservation for the Village and complies with recognized
national standards.
FORESTER: An individual trained and experienced in the profession of forestry
who has a forestry degree from an institution of advanced education.
FORESTRY CONSULTANT: A Certified Arborist or other tree care professional
responsible for impartially assessing the tree population. The Forestry
Consultant may function as the Village’s Certified Arborist during periods
where the Village is without an arborist.
INFRASTRUCTURE: The basic underlying framework or features that provide
collective services, including but not limited to roads, waterlines,
stormsewers, bioswales, and trees.
INVASIVE SPECIES: An introduced or exotic species that significantly modifies
or disrupts the ecosystem in which it colonizes (e.g. buckthorn).
LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR: A company or individual contracted to perform landscape
services.
LANDSCAPE MANAGEMENT PLAN: A plan approved by the Village outlining the
strategies for care and management of a specific type of landscape.
LANDSCAPE PLAN: A plan approved by the Village defining the location and
species of plants and associated hardscape including grading.
LANDSCAPING PROFESSIONAL: A registered landscape architect, horticulturalist or
other similarly degreed, experienced and/or licensed plant professional.
LEGACY TREE: A legacy tree is a tree identified on the legacy tree list and
which has been recorded as such by the Village. Legacy trees are provided
special protection as outlined in the legacy tree program.
NATURAL AMENITY EXCEPTION: A landscape and preservation plan intended as a
substitute for the replacement requirements of this Section.
NUISANCE TREES: Nuisance trees are trees that may provide potential impacts to
other trees, people or structures. This would include, but not be limited to,
diseased, infested, structurally unsound trees or known invasive species.
PARCEL: A single parcel shall mean any lot of record, zoning lot or any
grouping of adjacent lots under single ownership, serving a principal structure
or use.
PREFERRED TREE LIST: A listing of tree species, identified in the Village Urban
Forest Management Plan.
PROPERTY OWNER: An individual or organization who owns property located within
the corporate limits of the Village.
REGULATED ARTICLES: Any insects at any living stage of development, any
quarantined materials such as wood products including, but not limited to
chips, limbs, lumber, firewood, contaminated soils, or any other product or
means of conveyance which may be determined by Federal or State departments of
agriculture to pose a risk of spread of any infestation or infection.
SIGNIFICANT TREE REMOVAL: Removal of a legacy tree or grouping/stand of trees.
SIMPLE TREE REMOVAL: Removal of a tree without other associated site impacts or
other site improvements.
SITE: That parcel of land for which a permit for landscaping or tree removal is
sought.
STREET TREE: Any tree located on or within the public right-of-way or right-of-
way easement.
SUBURBAN TREE CONSORTIUM: Founded in 1985 by a group of municipalities wishing
to improve the quality and selection of parkway trees in the Chicago area. Low
bid selections year after year had brought about high mortality rates, which in
turn had an effect on the municipality’s credibility. Additionally, low bid
requirements provided for little continuity and consistency with area
nurseries, resulting in poor quality and selection. Illinois State Law allows
municipalities to enter into long-term contractual relationships for the
purpose of procuring parkway trees for up to ten years. The goal of the
Consortium was and has been for a group of municipalities to enter into a
contract growing arrangement whereby nurseries would grow trees according to
predetermined specifications. Those trees would be made available for Fall and
Spring plantings up to a five-year period.
TRANSPLANTING: The removal of any tree for replanting elsewhere.
TREE: Any self-supporting woody plant, together with its root system, trunk and
canopy; growing upon the earth usually with one trunk, or a multi-stemmed trunk
system, supporting a definitely formed crown.
TREE BANK: A bank account established to receive and hold deposits for trees
which were damaged and/or removed. These funds, if not returned to the
permittee upon completion of the work, shall be used by the Village to purchase
and care for trees throughout the Village.
TREE CARE CONTRACTOR: Professional forestry personnel overseen by at least one
Certified Arborist to perform tree care including but not limited to Tree
Trimming, Pruning, Removal, and Plant Health Care operations. Other operations,
such as Tree Planting, Tree Watering, and Tree Mulching do not have to be
performed under the direct supervision of a Certified Arborist.
TREE CITY USA: Founded by the Arbor Day Foundation in 1976, the Tree City USA
program provides assistance and recognition to incorporated communities that
maintain a continuously active tree management program(s). In 2022, the Village
celebrates its 35th year as a Tree City USA community.
TREE PERMIT: A written authorization from the Village authorizing the applicant
to conduct work which may or may not impact a tree. Sometimes referred to in
this Chapter as “permit.”
TREE PRESERVATION PLAN: A document required by a permit which identifies, by
common name and/or scientific name, certain species of trees of a specified DBH
within a particular area. The plan shall list all existing and proposed trees
and shall specifically state how each tree is proposed to be destroyed,
relocated, replaced, preserved at its present location, introduced into the
site from an off-site source, and whether the tree is to receive remediated
actions due to construction impacts, e.g. root pruning. The Village may provide
that the tree preservation plan excludes those portions of the site which it
determines will not be affected by the activity. Any tree preservation plan
required by this section must be dated within thirty six (36) months of the
start date of the proposed activity.
TREE REMOVAL: The cutting down, destruction, removal or relocation of any tree,
including damaging by poison or other direct or indirect action.
UNDERREPRESENTED TREE: An underrepresented tree is a tree species represented
by 30 trees or less and not listed on the Village’s “undesirable species list.”
Trees meeting the minimum criteria for size, form and condition as outlined in
the Urban Forest Management Plan are provided special protection as the loss of
such a tree would represent a significant detrimental impact to the Village’s
urban forest diversity, or the character or nature of the surrounding
neighborhood and area.
URBAN FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN: A detailed plan developed and approved by the
corporate authorities of the Village under the direction of a certified
arborist or forester which protects this valuable infrastructure and outlines
thoughtful strategies for tree planting, selection, care and preservation for
the Village and complies with recognized national standards.
VIABLE: A tree, which in the judgment of the Village’s Director of Municipal
Services, or their designee (the term “designee” as used in this Chapter
includes but is not limited to: the Assistant to the Director, a Village Code
Officer, a certified arborist or forester retained by the Village), is capable
of sustaining its own life processes, unaided by man, for a reasonable period
of time. (Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020; amd Ord. 2022-3083, 6-13-2022; Ord. 23-3128,
3-20-2023)
5-5-3: PRESERVATION:
   A.   Delegation of authority and responsibility.
      1.   The Director of the Municipal Services Department and/or their
designee, hereinafter referred to as the "Director", shall have full authority
and responsibility to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees and woody plants
growing in or upon all municipal streets, rights-of-ways, municipal parks, and
other public property under the jurisdiction of the Village. This shall include
the removal of trees that may threaten any municipal water or sewer line, or
any tree that is affected by fungus, insect, or other pest disease. This shall
also include the notification to the appropriate utility company for any tree
that may threaten electrical, telephone, gas, or any other private utility.
      2   Coordination Among Village Departments. All Village Departments will
coordinate as necessary with the Director and will provide services as required
to ensure compliance with this Ordinance as it relates to streets, alleys,
rights-of-way, drainage, easements, and other public properties not under
direct jurisdiction of the Director.
      3   Interference. No person shall hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere
with the Director or their agents while engaged in carrying out the execution
or enforcement of this chapter.
   B.   The Village shall have on staff or contract with at least two (2)
certified arborists or foresters. Any urban forestry work completed by a
contractor within the Village shall be under the direction of a certified
arborist or the Village Forester. These individuals are responsible for
enforcement and compliance of the Urban Forest Management Plan.
   C.   The Village shall have an urban forest inventory of publicly owned
trees. This inventory shall be maintained in a current state. Reinventory may
be required every five (5) to seven (7) years unless the inventory is updated
with the pruning cycle or is updated as part of routine tree maintenance.
   D.   The Village shall have an approved Urban Forest Management Plan. This
plan shall be the framework for the protection, management and planting of
trees within the Village and shall support and clearly define regulations
identified in the Tree Preservation Ordinance. This plan shall include the
following:
      1.   A defined ten (10) year urban forestry strategy with clearly
identified one (1), five (5), and ten (10) years goals;
      2.   Community canopy mapping identifying existing tree canopy and
priority locations for planting;
      3.   A strategy for completion and maintenance of a tree inventory on
public and private property;
      4.   Clear guidelines on tree species and age diversity;
      5.   Clear identification of replacement value and requirements for tree
removal or damage;
      6.   A preferred tree list;
      7.   Clearly defined specifications for tree planting, pruning, and
impact reduction;
      8.   A risk assessment and management program;
      9.   A legacy tree preservation and protection program including a legacy
tree list;
      10.   A strategy for management, preservation and protection of
naturalized areas;
      11.   A strategy for administration and implementation of a volunteer
program;
      12.   Clear identification of staff qualifications, training, support and
needs;
      13.   Specifications for contracted labor and consulting;
      14.   Clear identification of forestry equipment and resource needs; and
      15.   A forestry budget with one (1), five (5) and ten (10) year
commitments.
   E.   The Village shall require that any contractor, working for the Village
who may interact or have impact on the Village public property urban forest
utilize a certified arborist for all work pertaining to trees, including but
not limited to removal, pruning and planting activities.
   F.   Legacy and underrepresented trees are provided special protection by
the Village.
   G.   All tree planting, selection and management shall be in compliance with
the Village Urban Forest Management Plan.
   H.   It is recognized that diverse species and age structure of urban trees
throughout the Village are critical to the health of the forest structure and
protects the Village from catastrophic loss and improved longevity.
Specifications for species and age diversity, planting and management are
contained in the Urban Forest Management Plan. (Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020; amd.
Ord. 23-3128, 3-20-2023; Ord. 23-3149, 10-23-2023)
5-5-4: TREE CARE:
Tree care within the Village, on public lands, shall comply with requirements
identified in the Urban Forest Management Plan. It is recommended that tree
care on private property meet these same requirements. (Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-
2020)
5-5-5: TREE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall plant, spray, trim, remove or fasten
any wire or rope to or otherwise interfere with the health or growth of any
tree in a park, parkway, or other Village property (excluding approved methods
for systemic elm injections) without procuring a Village-issued tree permit
from the Community Development Department, as herein provided. In the case of
tree management practices, these practices shall comply with the requirements
identified in the Village-approved Urban Forest Management Plan. If a removal
or planting is significant or in conjunction with any type of development, then
a full tree preservation and management plan and inventory for the area to be
impacted shall be required. The Director of Municipal Services, or their
designee, shall review the tree permit application. This review shall include
an inspection of the site and referral of the application for recommendation to
other appropriate administrative departments or agencies. The Director of
Municipal Services, or their designee, shall render a decision on the
application within ten (10) business days of its receipt of a properly
completed application.
   B.   Application For Tree Permit: Applications for tree permits shall be
made on blanks furnished by the Community Development Department. Such
applications shall describe in detail the variety, size and precise location of
each tree that the permittee desires to plant and/or the nature of all other
planned tree work.
   C.   Documents On Site: Copies of all appropriate Village permits and other
applicable government permits and related documents shall be kept at the
project site and promptly be made available to any Village employee or the
Village certified arborist or forester retained upon request.
   D.   Suspension Or Revocation or Withdrawal Of Permits:
      1.   The Village may revoke or suspend or withdraw a tree permit issued
pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
         a.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the tree permit application;
         b.   Noncompliance with this chapter; or
         c.   Violation of or deviation from any element of a Village-issued
permit.
      2.   Suspension, revocation or withdrawal of a Village-issued permit
under this chapter may also be sufficient grounds for the suspension or
revocation of any other permits issued by the Village for the property,
including building construction permits.
      3.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension or Withdrawal: The Village shall
send written notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant
to this chapter, stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension
and the alternatives available to permittee under this section.
      4.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension Or Withdrawal: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or
suspension or withdrawal of a tree permit from the Village, the permittee shall
have the following options:
         a.   Immediately provide the Village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension or withdrawal;
         b.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice; or
         c.   Immediately take action to develop, implement and actively pursue
a corrective plan to resolve the deficiencies (i.e., secure the area, hire a
contractor to resolve the deficiencies, etc.) to the satisfaction of the
Village, providing written proof of such actions, contractor agreement and
milestone schedule to resolve the deficiencies to the Village within ten (10)
calendar days after receipt of the written notice from the Village. The Village
may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods provided
in this subsection.
      5.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of
revocation or suspension or withdrawal, the Village may issue a stop work order
immediately upon discovery of any of the reasons for revocation or suspension
or withdrawal set forth within this subsection D.
      6.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee
fails to comply with the provisions of this section, the Director of Municipal
Services, or their designee, at its sole discretion, may: (1) issue one or more
code citations and file and pursue administrative adjudication action and/or
legal action relative to the code citation(s) to enforce this chapter; and (2)
correct the deficiencies and file a lien against the property for the value of
the corrective work and the Village’s related expenses. If the Village or its
agents or contractors perform any corrective or remedial work to resolve the
deficiencies, the permittee shall be liable to the Village for all such costs
incurred by the Village, including but not limited to disposal fees, contractor
fees, consultant fees or legal fees and related expenses as a consequence of
the permittee’s failure or refusal to comply with this chapter.
   E.   Cash Bonds:
      1.   If tree replacement is required by this Chapter, then, as a
condition of the tree permit, the permittee shall submit a cash bond as
identified by the Village. The bond shall be held for the purpose of assuring
that the replacement tree(s) are purchased and planted.
      2.   If it is determined that practices which violate any portion of the
Village Code have resulted in tree damage, then the Village may require that a
cash bond, as determined by the Village, shall be submitted at the time the
violation occurs. The bond shall be held for the purpose of assuring that all
remedial actions to minimize tree damage are taken, and/or for the purpose of
assuring tree replacement should any damaged tree die or show noticeable signs
of decline as determined by a certified arborist. If it is determined that
residual damage may not be apparent, then the bond may be held for a period of
sixty (60) months or five (5) years. At the end of the 60-month period, if the
tree survives and is in good health, as determined by a certified arborist, the
bond shall be returned to the permittee. If the tree does not survive, and was
not further impacted by an act of God, or is in poor health, then removal of
the existing tree and planting of a replacement tree shall be required, as
identified above and according to Village Code, and cash bond shall be used to
pay for the tree removal and replacement work.
      3.   If a cash bond is posted for a tree and the property owner wishes to
transfer ownership to the property to another person, then a replacement cash
bond shall be required to be paid by the purchaser of the property prior to
transfer of the property. Once a replacement cash bond is received, the cash
bond on deposit with the Village shall be refunded to the original property
owner. A replacement cash bond is not needed if the current property owner and
the purchaser submit a written, executed agreement that the cash bond has been
assigned to the purchaser of the property and shall remain with the Village for
the benefit of the purchaser of the property.
   F.   Inspection: Final approval shall be issued when all relocation,
replacement or remediation of trees is completed and a final inspection has
been conducted by the Village. Should the Village determine that the season is
inappropriate for planting, then relocation or replacement shall be deferred
until the next planting season. All bonds and fees will remain in the custody
of the Village until final inspection and approval has been provided in
writing.
   G.   Compliance: The Village shall retain jurisdiction to ensure compliance
with this section and shall have the right to issue a stop work order for non-
compliance. No stop work order issued pursuant to this section shall be removed
by the Village unless the permittee has paid a re-inspection fee in accordance
with this Code.
   H.   Insurance Requirements: Each contractor who performs work that is
governed by and subject to permitting under this Chapter shall comply with the
public contract insurance provisions and coverage requirements of the Village
as set forth under the Insurance Requirements Section of the Urban Forest
Management Plan, which public contract insurance provisions and coverage
requirements are incorporated by reference into this Subsection H. (Ord. 20-
3006, 6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022; Ord. 23-3149, 10-23-2023)
5-5-6: PLANTING TREES:
   A.   Tree Permit Requirements: No tree shall be planted on Village parkway
(i.e., property adjoining a roadway and forming part of a platted right of way)
or other Village property without first obtaining a tree permit from the
Department of Community Development. Tree permit applications shall be approved
or denied on the basis of compliance with this Chapter.
   B.   As outlined in the Urban Forest Management Plan, the Village shall
plant, and recommend to private landowners the planting of, diverse species
with the ratio of not more than fifteen percent (15%) of any one family, ten
percent (10%) of any one genus or five percent (5%) of any one species, with
the exception of naturalized areas where species selections are based on the
natural species assemblages as defined in the Urban Forest Management Plan.
Diverse species composition protects the Village from catastrophic loss.
   C.   All trees planted by the Village, or their agents, shall be planted in
accordance with the Urban Forest Management Plan.
   D.   Permitted Species: A list of permitted species shall be maintained by
the Department of Municipal Services. The approval of a species for a
particular site shall be dependent upon the following criteria:
      1.   Compliance with permitted species list.
      2.   Compatibility of the species with the site.
      3.   The overall species balance in the immediate area surrounding the
proposed location as well as the overall species balance in the Village.
   E.   Species Not Permitted: The following trees shall not be planted within
the Village corporate limits: all members of the willow family (Salicaceae,
salix and populus), silver maple (Acer saccharinom), box elder (Acer negundo),
tree-of-heaven (Ailanthus altissima), and any other species which are expressly
prohibited as set forth in the Urban Forest Management Plan, as amended. The
prohibited species set forth in the Urban Forest Management Plan are
incorporated by reference into this Subsection for enforcement purposes.
   F.   Spacing Requirements: Spacing and location of trees shall be at the
discretion of the Department of Municipal Services, with consideration given to
the following tree spacing requirements: trees shall be located a minimum of
thirty feet (30') from the curb line at intersections; a minimum of eight feet
(8') from driveways; a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from street lights; a
minimum of five feet (5') from fire hydrants, shut-off boxes, vaults and other
miscellaneous utility structures; and a minimum of three feet (3') back from
the curb line and two feet (2') from the outside edge of the pavement. Spacing
between trees is dependent upon the species to be planted, neighboring species
and site characteristics as determined by the Director of Municipal Services.
   G.   Trees purchased by the Village shall meet the specifications required
in the Urban Forest Management Plan.
   H.   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree under utility wires that is
anticipated to grow to a height that will interfere with the wires.
   I.   The Village shall implement a contract growing program. This contract
will allow for stable pricing and broader species diversity to improve the
overall diversity of the urban forest. This contract may be for a period of
five (5) to ten (10) years.
   J.   The Village shall provide education and outreach to private landowners
on the need for species and age diversity, proper selection and planting
practices, and how to select species for particular sites. (Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-
2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022)
5-5-7: LEGACY AND UNDERREPRESENTED TREE PRESERVATION:
A legacy or underrepresented tree is a special designation issued in writing by
the Director of Municipal Services, or their designee. The criterion for
designation is provided in the Legacy and Underrepresented Tree Program and
Legacy Tree List and as detailed in the Urban Forest Management Plan. (Ord. 20-
3006, 6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022; Ord. 23-3128, 3-20-2023)
5-5-8: TRIMMING AND SPRAYING TREES:
   A.   Tree Permit Requirements: No public tree shall be trimmed, pruned or
sprayed without first obtaining a tree permit from the Department of Municipal
Services. If the Director of the Department of Municipal Services, or their
designee, determines that the proposed trimming represents a potential safety
problem, the Village may require the permittee to obtain insurance in such
amounts as is decreed necessary.
   B.   Method Of Trimming And Spraying: All trimming, pruning or spraying
shall be performed in compliance with the guidelines provided by the Department
of Municipal Services, which shall be based on applicable horticultural and
arboricultural standards. (Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-
2022)
5-5-9: PROTECTION OF EXISTING TREES:
   A.   All construction projects within or adjacent to the public right of way
that have a potential damage or impact on existing public trees shall require a
tree permit from the Village. The Director of the Department of Municipal
Services, or their designee, may direct whatever reasonable measures are
necessary to protect the tree, including but not limited to root zone
protection, bark protection, root pruning, construction pruning and liquid
fertilization. Failure to abide by the terms of the tree permit may result in
the revocation of the tree permit and any other permit issued by the Village,
including building construction permits and Village contracts.
   B.   In the event of any site improvement which may damage or impact public
property trees, a tree preservation plan is required to be prepared and filed
by the property owner with the Community Development Department, must be
approved by the Director of the Department of Municipal Services, or their
designee, and implemented prior to the start of any work or delivery of any
materials to the building activity area. The approved tree preservation plan
shall be available on the site throughout the entire construction period until
final approvals for all site work shall be received in writing.
   C.   In instances where the activity requires the use of heavy equipment and
where that activity may damage or impact trees on public or private property,
all appropriate tree protection measures must be taken and identified in the
tree preservation plan. In addition, all tree protection measures shall be in
compliance with the Urban Forest Management Plan. (Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020;
amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022)
5-5-10: TREE REMOVAL:
Tree removals are considered an impact to the entire Village, whether on public
or private land. It is clearly documented that larger trees provide larger
benefits and, as such, tree removal fees and fines are based on species and
diameter. It is recognized that the planting of smaller trees does not replace
the value of larger trees that are lost. It will take tens of years for that
value to be replaced and, for that reason, efforts should be made to preserve
and protect trees where they are growing. In regard to tree removals, the
corporate authorities of the Village have made the following findings and have
enacted the following requirements:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any individual to remove or cause damage to
any tree located on public property without first receiving a tree permit from
the Village.
   B.   No live, dead or dying tree, or grouping of trees, on public property
may be removed without first obtaining a tree permit from the Village.
   C.   A nuisance tree is a tree that has already died, is in a state of
irrevocable decline, has the capacity to damage a person or thing, or is an
invasive species.
   D.   Any tree removed from a parcel or transplanted off-site must be
replaced according to the requirements outlined in the Urban Forest Management
Plan, this Chapter and the Village Municipal Code.
   E.   All stump removals shall require identifying underground utility
locations prior to any action.
   F.   If a tree is removed or damaged which is not on the tree permit, it
must be replaced or bonded as set forth in this Chapter.
   G.   Removal of invasive woody plants such as buckthorn does not require a
tree permit and is encouraged. These invasive plants can quickly colonize an
area, reducing the health and vitality of non-invasive plants. A list of
invasive woody plants is provided in the Urban Forest Management Plan and in
the Illinois Exotic Weed Act, 525 Illinois Compiled Statutes 10. (Ord. 20-3006,
6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022)
5-5-11: TREE REPLACEMENT:
In regard to tree replacements, the corporate authorities of the Village have
made the following findings and have enacted the following requirements:
   A.   It is required that tree replacement species come from the preferred
species list. The preferred species list is provided in the Urban Forest
Management Plan.
   B.   Any tree which is required to be removed or which has been damaged
shall require a tree permit bond to be posted by the permittee or other person
responsible for the damage or removal until adequate tree replacements or
remediation can be made. The bond amount shall be set by the Director of the
Department of Municipal Services, or their designee (i.e., the Assistant to the
Director, a Village Code Officer, a certified arborist or forester retained by
the Village), based on the formulas and techniques set forth in the Council of
Tree and Landscape Appraisers “Guide for Plant Appraisal”, latest edition, or
otherwise provided by this Code. Determination of the extent of tree damage
shall be made by the Director of the Department of Municipal Services, or their
designee, in consultation with the Forestry Consultant.
   C.   Any tree species removed by a homeowner, private developer or
contractor, six inches (6") DBH or six inch (6") group of trees, which is not
identified on the invasive species list, but is identified on the preferred
species list, is required to be replaced in accordance with the this section.
These trees shall be replaced based on the standards set forth in the “Guide
for Plant Appraisal”, latest edition. All replacements shall be located
appropriately as confirmed by a certified arborist and as approved by the
Director of the Department of Municipal Services, or their designee.
   D.   When a tree removal is required as a result of any project, tree
replacement shall occur within the landscape season. In the event of weather
conditions or species-specific needs, which prohibit proper replacement of a
tree, the Director of the Department of Municipal Services, or their designee,
may issue written notice of an extension of up to one hundred eighty (180)
calendar days upon written request by the permittee. If an extension is granted
to the permittee, the permittee shall notify the Village when replacement is
complete. If the extension period expires and the tree is not replaced or the
permittee has not notified the Village that installation is complete, all bonds
shall be forfeited and the bond money shall be placed in the Tree Bank (defined
above in Section
5-2-2). Tree removal requirements, associated with a development project, are
set forth in Section
5-5-10 (Tree Removal) of this Chapter.
   E.   All tree replacement plantings shall require identifying an underground
utility (“JULIE”) location prior to planting.
   F.   If the property where a tree removal has taken place does not have
adequate space to plant a replacement tree, then the permittee shall be
required to pay the Village a dollar amount based on the Council of Tree and
Landscape Appraisers “Guide for Plant Appraisal”, latest edition, or otherwise
provided by this Code. Funds shall be placed in the Tree Bank for tree
replacement or tree care in another area of the Village.
   G.   It shall be encouraged that any species identified on the invasive
species list be removed. There is no tree replacement requirement for removal
of these species. (Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022)
5-5-12: SPECIAL RULES FOR CONSERVANCY OR PRESERVATION AREAS:
If a conservancy or preservation area (as defined above in Section
5-5-2) is impacted or may be impacted in any way by work or activities of a
permittee or any other responsible person, the following shall be required:
   A.   A cash bond (i.e., tree conservancy / preservation area bond), which is
in addition to the tree permit bond required by Subsection
5-5-5(F) (Permits Requirements Generally; Cash Bonds), is required to be
deposited with the Village as a condition of approval of a tree permit
application or as a condition of restoring an impacted conservancy or
preservation area. The dollar amount of the tree conservancy / preservation
area bond shall be calculated as follows: One hundred dollars ($100.00) per
caliper inch for each living significant surveyed tree (regardless of species)
lying within any tree conservancy / preservation area. The developer shall be
required to post the tree conservancy / preservation area bond prior to
commencing any grading, earthmoving or other construction activities on the
development parcel to help ensure that there is a fund in place to pay for the
removal and replacement of any fallen, damaged, diseased, decayed or dead trees
within the tree preservation area or easements with trees at a ratio of one to
one (1:1) having a minimum diameter of four inches (4") measured at DBH and of
like species if approved by the Village, or species selected from the varieties
approved by the Village.
   B.   The purpose of this tree conservancy / preservation area bond is to pay
for restoration of any portion of the conservancy or preservation area damaged,
directly or indirectly, as a result of the activities of any permittee or any
other responsible person. All restoration shall be performed with like-kind and
like-quality materials and be completed under the review of the Municipal
Services Department and under the “Tree Preservation and Management During
Construction” section of the UFMP.
   C.   Any tree maintenance made necessary as a result of damage or impact,
including but not limited to the removal of dead trees or preventative measures
such as root pruning or crown reduction of existing trees, shall be paid for by
the permittee or any other responsible person.
   D.   Any expenses incurred by the Village, as a result of any damage or
impact in administering or enforcing the provisions of this Chapter, this Code
or the Urban Forest Management Plan shall be paid for by the permittee or any
other responsible person. The amount of the tree conservancy / preservation
bond shall in no way limit the developer’s obligation or the liability of the
developer if the cost to remove and/or replace such fallen, damaged, diseased,
decayed or dead trees exceeds the tree conservancy / preservation bond, except
that the developer’s obligations with respect to the tree preservation in the
development shall cease upon the termination date of the developer’s tree
preservation obligations as defined in this section.
   E.   The tree conservancy / preservation area bond will be refunded one year
after the repairs have been made and all maintenance is completed and approved
by the Director of the Department of Municipal Services, or their designee.
(Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022)
5-5-13: TREE PRESERVATION AND/OR REMOVAL PLAN FOR SIGNIFICANT REMOVALS,
CONSTRUCTION AND/OR DEVELOPMENT:
An applicant seeking a permit for significant tree removals or tree removal
and/or planting related to construction and/or development shall comply with
all requirements of this Chapter and the Urban Forest Management Plan. (Ord.
20-3006, 6-22-2020)
5-5-14: NUISANCE TREES:
A tree which is determined by the Director of the Department of Municipal
Services, or their designee, to be a nuisance tree is one which is dead or
declining and has the potential to damage other trees, people, or structures.
These trees may be located on public or private property.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the property owner on any parcel to promptly
remove any trees which pose a risk to personal property or human safety.
   B.   When the Village notifies the property owner, in writing, of a tree
which is a potential risk to personal property or human safety, the property
owner shall have twenty (20) calendar days to remove the tree. If the property
owner has not removed the tree within the 20-day period, then the Village may
take action to have the tree removed. If the tree is removed by the Village, a
Village invoice shall be sent to the property owner that contains all costs
associated with the removal, including but not limited to expended Village
staff time, Village equipment use charges, Village consultant fees and charges,
contractor charges and materials, and oversight of said removal. If the
property owner fails or refuses to reimburse the Village within thirty (30)
calendar days of issuance of a written invoice, the Village shall place a lien
on the property until all expenses related to the removal and subsequent lien
are paid, and the Village may file a legal action to collect the costs
contained in the invoice.
   C.   Infected, Infested Trees Due To A Pest Or Pathogen Are Defined As A
Nuisance:
      1.   Any tree which is in a state of irreparable or untreatable decline
due to heavy infestation or disease is included in the definition of a
nuisance. Infested or infected trees, which are identified by Federal or State
Departments of Agriculture to be in quarantine or can potentially infect or
infest other trees are defined as a nuisance. This would include but not be
limited to Ash (Fraxinus) trees infested with emerald ash borer which are not
being treated or whose treatment is ineffectual, or Elm trees (Ulmus) infected
with Dutch elm disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease or Emerald Ash
Borer shall be subject to the additional regulations set forth in section
5-5-17 of this Code.
         a.   The Village shall enforce State and Federal regulations governing
quarantine zone boundaries, and regulated articles.
         b.   For the purposes of this section, “Regulated Articles” are hereby
defined as any insects at any living state of development, any quarantines
materials such as wood products including, but not limited to chips, limbs,
lumber, firewood or any other product or means of conveyance which may be
determined by Federal or State departments of agriculture to pose a risk of
spread of any infestation or infection.
         c.   It shall be illegal to move out of established quarantine zone(s)
regulated articles unless those articles have met all requirements of the
local, Federal and State regulatory agencies.
         d.   It shall be illegal for any person or entity to transfer from a
quarantine zone into a non-quarantine zone including the Village any regulated
articles.
         e.   Any person or entity found to be in violation of any local, State
or Federal regulations related to tree infestations or infections shall be
prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
         f.   All contractors working within and near any quarantine zone(s)
are required to comply with the quarantine regulations and supply records that
may be required for inspection to the Village, County, State or Federal
agencies upon request.
      2.   Trees In Decline Or Dead Are Defined As A Nuisance:
         a.   Any tree or part of a tree which is dead which could potentially
fall on a person or structure is defined as a nuisance.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any lot or land in the
Village to permit or maintain on any such lot or land, any tree which is dead,
or declining to the state where it may create a potential risk for structures
or people. It shall be the duty of any such owner to promptly cause the removal
of any such tree. (Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022)
5-5-15: INVASIVE SPECIES CONTROL:
   A.   Invasive Woody Plants: Invasive plants cause ecological disruption to
natural ecosystems. The type of impact varies based on the species and the
traits of that species. The Woody Invasive Species List is included in the
Urban Forest Management Plan or as defined by the defined by the Illinois
Exotic Weed Act, 525 Illinois Compiled Statutes 10. These species shall not be
planted and should be removed and controlled to reduce impacts to other
vegetation.
      1.   Typical impacts include:
         a.   Chemical disturbance to the soil limiting development of other
species;
         b.   Dense plant growth limiting light to soil surface resulting in
exposed soil allowing erosion;
      2.   Displacement of naturally occurring species resulting in a
monoculture of invasive species and aggressive tendencies.
      3.   Private Property Owner Outreach: The Village shall have
implementation and outreach plan to educate property owners of the potential
impacts and remediation strategies, including a suggested planting list of
alternative species to assist property owners in dealing with the problem. This
plan is located in the Urban Forest Management Plan.
   B.   Invasive Diseases And Insects:
      1.   Impacts To Trees: Invasive diseases and insects can create
significant stress to trees and in some instances kill trees. The Village has
developed a list of invasive diseases and insects that pose significant threats
to trees from information identified by State and Federal Departments of
Agriculture. This list is included in the Urban Forest Management Plan.
      2.   Invasive Species Management Plan: Management of invasive diseases
and insects is included in the Urban Forest Management Plan.
      3.   Private Property Owner Outreach: The Village shall have an
implementation and outreach plan to educate property owners of the potential
impacts and remediation strategies to help property tree owners in dealing with
pests or pathogens. This plan is located in the Urban Forest Management Plan.
(Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020)
5-5-16: RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Defacing Trees: No person shall destroy, mutilate, drive nails in or in
any way interfere with any tree or shrub that is now or may hereafter be
growing on any public property in the village.
   B.   Attaching Electric Wires And Supports: No person shall attach any
electric wire, radio antenna, insulator or any other device for holding
electric wire to any tree now or hereafter growing on any public property in
the village.
   C.   Obstructing Streetlights: No person shall be permitted to maintain a
tree on private property in such a manner as to obstruct the rays of a
streetlight.
   D.   Obstructing Earth Space: No person shall be permitted to place or
maintain on public property any cement, stone or other material which shall
impede the free passage of water or air to the roots of any tree without having
an open space, not less than two feet (2') in width all around the trunk of
such tree; provided, however, that the maintenance of such open space shall not
require the breaking or destroying of any part of any sidewalk, driveway apron
or pavement already constructed.
   E.   Low Hanging Branches: All trees standing on private property abutting
on any sidewalk, street or alley shall have their branches cut or trimmed so
that no part thereof shall overhang such sidewalk, street or alley at the
height of less than ten feet (10') above the sidewalk or fourteen feet (14')
above the street roadway or alley.
   F.   Danger To Public Ways: All trees standing on private property shall be
maintained in such a manner as to pose no probable danger to the public ways or
to users of public ways.
   G.   Tall Shrubs And Plants: No shrub or low growing ornamental tree shall
be planted in any public parkway of the village, nor shall any herbaceous plant
or flower be planted therein which at its maturity attains a height of over
twenty four inches (24"). (amd. Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020)
5-5-17: DUTCH ELM DISEASE AND EMERALD ASH BORER:
   A.   Incorporation Of Certain Provisions Of The Illinois Municipal Code: For
purposes of implementing and enforcing the applicable provisions of the
Illinois municipal code, as amended, that relate to property maintenance,
removal of nuisances and filing and enforcing liens for associated removal
costs, the village incorporates by reference the following provisions and all
updates and amendments: division 2 (ordinances) of the Illinois municipal code
1 , including, but not limited to, sections 11-20-7, 11-20-11, 11-20-12, 11-20-
15 and 11-20-15.1. Any conflict between this code and the incorporated
provisions of the Illinois municipal code, as amended, shall be resolved by
following the state law provisions.
   B.   Nuisance: All species and varieties of elm trees (Ulmus and Zelkova)
infected with Dutch elm disease (the fungus Ceratostomella ulmi), as
determined, when an owner is directed by the Village Forester to do so, by
laboratory analysis or another method of analysis approved by the Village
Forester and paid for by the owner, are declared to be a public nuisance, and
shall be removed and burned within twenty (20) days following notification of
the discovery of such infection. The results of the analysis shall be given to
the Village Forester within seven (7) days of the owner’s receipt of the
results. All other similarly infected trees are declared to be a public
nuisance and shall be removed and burned within twenty (20) days following
notification of the discovery of such infection, unless the tree is placed in
or is being actively treated under a nationally recognized treatment program
overseen by a licensed arborist hired by the owner and approved by the village
forester. It shall be unlawful for the owner of real estate where such a tree
is situated to possess or keep such a tree, after the expiration of twenty (20)
days following notification issued by the village of the discovery of said
infection, unless the owner initiates and maintains a treatment program
overseen by a licensed arborist and approved by the village forester. See 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-12(c) for definition of "treatment".
   C.   Elm Bark Beetle Breeding Places: Trees or parts thereof of Ulmus (elm)
or Zelkova in a dead or dying condition that may serve as a breeding place for
the European elm bark beetle, Scolytus multistriatus, are declared to be a
public nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for the owner of real estate where
the tree is situated to possess or keep the same.
   D.   Emerald Ash Borer: Trees of all species and varieties of ash trees
(Fraxinus) infected with the emerald ash borer beetle (Agrilus planipennis
Fairmaire) that are dead or have lost at least fifty percent (50%) of their
crown, as determined by the village forester, shall be declared to be a public
nuisance and shall be removed and burned within twenty (20) days following
notification of the discovery of such infection. All other similarly infected
trees are declared to be a public nuisance and shall be removed and burned
within twenty (20) days following notification of the discovery of such
infection, unless the tree is placed in or is being actively treated under a
nationally recognized treatment program overseen by a licensed arborist hired
by the owner and approved by the village forester. It shall be unlawful for the
owner of real estate where such a tree is situated to possess or keep such a
tree after the expiration of twenty (20) days following notification of the
discovery of said infection by the village, unless the owner initiates and
maintains a treatment program overseen by a licensed arborist and approved by
the village forester. See 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-12(c) for
definition of "treatment".
   E.   Enforcement: The director of municipal services, or his/her designated
representative, is charged with the enforcement of this section. When the
director is unable to effect voluntary entry onto private real estate for the
purpose of inspecting the trees thereon, the director shall seek the necessary
authorization to make or cause entry to be made onto the real estate.
   F.   Removal Of Public Nuisances: Unless the owner initiates and maintains a
treatment program overseen by a licensed arborist and approved by the village
forester, the director of municipal services, or his/her designated
representative, shall give to the owner of the real estate where the public
nuisances described in this section are found a written notice of the existence
of such nuisance and requiring the removal and burning of the same within
twenty (20) days following such notice, such removal and burning to be done
under the direction and supervision of the director of municipal services, or
his/her designated representative. The notice shall also notify the owner of
the real estate that, unless such nuisance is removed and burned in compliance
with the terms thereof within such twenty (20) day period, the village will
proceed with the removal and burning of such nuisance, and assess the cost
thereof against the owner.
   G.   Duty Of Owner To Remove Diseased Or Dead Tree Or Breeding Place: Upon
receipt of notice, it shall become the duty of the owner of the real estate to
cause such tree or breeding place to be removed and burned under the
supervision of the director of municipal services, or his/her designated
representative. In lieu thereof, the person charged with such removal and
burning may request in writing that the same be done by the director of
municipal services, or his/her designated representative. If the village shall
remove and burn any tree or breeding place, all costs incurred in connection
therewith shall be assessed against and paid by such owner.
   H.   Lien: Notice of the lien claim for removal activities performed to
abate the nuisances under this section shall be mailed by the village manager,
or his/her designated representatives, to the owner of the real estate whenever
such bill remains unpaid for a period of thirty (30) days after it has been
rendered. The failure of the village manager, or his/her designated
representatives, to record such lien claim or to mail such notice or the
failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for unpaid bills for removal activities as provided herein.
This lien upon the real estate is superior to all other liens and encumbrances,
except tax liens and as otherwise provided by state law; provided that notice
has been given as herein described, and further provided that within one year
after such removal costs are incurred the village, or person performing the
service by authority of the village, in his/her or its own name, files notice
of lien in the office of the recorder of deeds of Cook County. The notice shall
consist of a sworn statement setting out: 1) a description of the real estate
sufficient for identification thereof, including the identification of the real
estate by common description; 2) a description of the removal activities; 3)
the amount of money representing the removal costs; 4) the date or dates when
such removal costs were incurred by the village; and 5) a statement that the
lien has been filed pursuant to applicable provisions of this code and the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7, 11-20-8(d), 11-20-12(d),
11-20-13(e), 11-20-15, 11-20-15.1 or 11-31-1.01, as applicable.
   I.   Service Of Notice: Prior to filing the lien, the following notice shall
be personally served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person whom was sent
the tax bill for the general taxes on the real estate for the last preceding
year. The notice shall be delivered or sent after the removal activities have
been performed. The notice shall: 1) state the substance of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-12 and 5/11-20-15 and the substance of any ordinance
implementing those laws; 2) identify the real estate at issue by common
description; and 3) describe the removal activities. See 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 11-20-7 and 11-20-15.
   J.   Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the removal costs, the lien filing
fees and the release filing fees by the owner of or persons interested in such
real estate, after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by
the village or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release may
be filed of record as in the case of filing the notice of lien. See 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15(h) or 11-20-15.1(e).
   K.   Trees Partly On Private Real Estate And Partly On Public Real Estate:
Dutch elm diseased trees and emerald ash borer infected trees, the trunks of
which, in the opinion of the director of municipal services, or his/her
designated representative, are partly on village owned real estate and partly
on privately owned real estate, shall be removed by the village. The cost of
such tree removal shall be shared equally by the village and the owner of
record of the privately owned real estate. In the event that the owner of the
privately owned real estate, upon notice from the village, fails to pay one-
half (1/2) of said cost within thirty (30) days, then the village shall pay the
entire cost of the tree removal and shall have the right to collect from the
owner one-half (1/2) of the cost by lien or suit for judgment. The cost shall
be a lien upon the real estate, provided that notice is given to the owner
prior to thirty (30) days before the tree removal and a notice of lien is
recorded in the recorder's office within sixty (60) days after the removal
costs are incurred, as provided by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-12.
For purposes of this section, the village property line shall be deemed to be
thirty three feet (33') from the centerline of each street, except in those
instances where a street may be more than sixty six feet (66') in width, in
which case the village engineer, or his/her designated representative, shall
determine the location of the property line. In the sole discretion of the
director of municipal services, or his/her designated representative, the
village may agree to place the tree in a nationally recognized treatment
program overseen by a licensed arborist hired by the owner and approved by the
village forester. The village and the private owner shall share equally the
costs of such treatment program.
   L.   Village To Remove Its Own Trees: Unless the tree is placed in or is
being actively treated under a nationally recognized treatment program overseen
by the village forester, infected trees on village owned real estate and on
public streets and highways within the corporate limits shall be removed at the
expense of the village.
   M.   Abandoned Residential Property; Removal; Lien: See process set forth in
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-12(d) and 11-20-15.1.
   N.   Foreclosure Of Lien: See foreclosure process set forth in 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15.1(d). (Ord. 15-2803, 5-18-2015; amd. Ord. 20-3006,
6-22-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 et seq.
5-5-18: REPLACEMENT OF DAMAGED AND/OR DESTROYED TREES:
Whenever any Village owned tree is damaged for any reason to the point that it
is no longer an acceptable tree, as determined by the Director of the
Department of Municipal Services, or their designee, the person responsible for
the damage shall be obligated to replace the tree on a “wood for wood” basis at
a value as calculated by the Village Forestry Consultant in accordance with the
tree replacement formula set forth in the Council of Tree and Landscape
Appraisers “Guide for Plant Appraisal”, latest edition, or otherwise provided
by this Code.
If the site does not have sufficient space for the number of replacement trees
required, the excess shall be planted elsewhere in the Village where needed.
This determination of where the replacement trees shall be planted
shall be made on a case-by-case basis by the Director of the Department of
Municipal Services, or their designee. (Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-
3083, 6-13-2022)
5-5-19: PROPERTIES AND RECREATION COMMITTEE:
   A.   Establishment: The Village Properties and Recreation Committee shall
serve as the recommending body to provide assistance and direction and
expertise to the Village regarding the preservation, planting, management and
protection of trees. The Properties and Recreation Committee shall develop and
recommend implementation of an Urban Forest Management Plan for guidance on
urban forestry issues.
   B.   Procedures: The Properties and Recreation Committee shall hold meetings
in accordance with the Open Meetings Act and provide recommendations to the
corporate authorities of the Village after consideration of Village policies,
and amendments to rules and regulations of the Village, Village policies and
the Village Code relating to matters that are within the scope of its listed
Powers and Duties. The Properties and Recreation Committee shall keep written
records of its proceedings, which shall be open at all times to public
inspection. The Properties and Recreation Committee shall file an annual report
to the Village Board setting forth its past-year activities and recommendations
for future action by the Village.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The Properties and Recreation Committee shall have
the following powers and duties with respect to this Chapter, in addition to
any other powers and duties established by this Code, subject to the approval
of the Village Board:
      1.   To provide guidance on the preservation, care, management and
protection of trees within the Village in accordance with the Urban Forestry
Management Plan, and regional and local best management practices.
      2.   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board from time to time
recommendations for specific improvements of the preservation, care, management
and protection of trees within the Village.
      3.   To recommend rules and regulations to the Village Board for budget,
plans, projects and schedules regarding the preservation, care, management and
protection of trees within the Village.
      4.   To review the Village Urban Forest Management Plan and provide
recommendations for improvements to the Village Board.
      5.   To review reports from Village forestry staff to support the Village
ordinances and the Urban Forest Management Plan.
      6.   Oversee staff management and administration of all plans, programs,
projects and tasks delegated by the Village Board. (Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020;
amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022)
5-5-20: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this Chapter
shall be assessed at a cost as prescribed in Section
1-4-1 (General Penalty) of this Code, which is incorporated by reference into
this Chapter. Each tree cut down, destroyed, damaged, removed or moved shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition to these penalties, if a tree is
removed in violation of this Chapter, all replacement requirements of this
Chapter shall be applied.
   B.   In addition to any other remedies provided by this Section
5-5-20 (Penalty), the Village shall have the following judicial remedies
available for violations of this Chapter or any tree permit condition
promulgated under this Chapter:
      1.   The Village may institute a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to establish liability and to recover damages for any injury
caused by the removal or damage of trees in contravention of the terms of this
Chapter.
      2.   The Village may institute a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to seek injunctive relief to enforce compliance with this Chapter
to enjoin any violation, and to seek injunctive relief to prevent irreparable
injury to the trees or properties encompassed by the terms of this Chapter.
(Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022)
5-5-21: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Of Right Of Entry Of Village Officers: To carry out the
purposes of this Chapter and to implement its enforcement, the Village is
authorized and empowered, upon twenty-four (24) hours’ notice, to enter upon
any lot or parcel of land in the Village at all reasonable hours to inspect any
tree or wood and to remove specimens from any such tree to determine their
condition. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Director
of the Department of Municipal Services, or their designee, including any
Village Code Enforcement Officer, carrying out the duties authorized in this
Chapter or this Code or the Urban Forest Management Plan.
   B.   Duty Of Property Owner To Abate Nuisance Or Potential Risk: If it is
determined by the Director of the Department of Municipal Services, or their
designee, that there exists a public nuisance or a risk of injury to personal
property or human health as declared in this Chapter, the Village shall serve
or cause to be served upon the owner of the lot or parcel of land on which such
nuisance or risk is located a written notice identifying the nuisance or risk
and requiring the property owner to comply with the provisions of this Chapter.
If the person upon whom such notice is served fails, neglects or refuses to
remove and dispose of the tree or dead wood within twenty (20) calendar days
after service of such notice, the Village may proceed to remove and dispose of
such tree or dead wood and the costs shall be paid by the owner to the Village.
If the person refuses to pay the Village for the removal costs, the Village may
pursue legal action to collect the removal costs and all Village-incurred legal
fees and costs associated with the legal action and may file a lien against the
property owner’s property relative to the removal costs and related legal fees
and costs.
   C.   Service Of Notice To Property Owner: Service of notice provided for in
this Section shall be delivered by personal service or by certified mail
addressed to the property owner, the occupant or to the person to whom, and at
the address, to which the tax bill was sent for the general taxes for the last
preceding year on the lot or parcel on which the nuisance is located.
   D.   Village Abatement And Assessment Of Costs: Any costs incurred by the
Village in the abatement of a public nuisance or risk of injury to personal
property or human health as declared in this Chapter shall be assessed against
the record owner of the land involved and the Village shall place a lien upon
such property for those costs in the manner provided by law and the Village may
file a legal action to collect the costs contained in the lien. (Ord. 20-3006,
6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022)
5-5-22: EXCEPTIONS:
If because of emergency weather or other casualty conditions a tree is
endangering health, safety or property and requires immediate removal, verbal
authorization may be given by the Director of the Department of Municipal
Services, or their designee, for the tree removal without obtaining a written
tree permit. Such verbal authorization shall later be confirmed in writing by
the Director of the Department of Municipal Services, or their designee. (Ord.
20-3006, 6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083, 6-13-2022)
5-5-23: VARIANCES; APPEALS:
   A.   Variances: No variances in the strict application of the provisions of
this Chapter shall be recommended for approval by the Village Board, unless it
finds:
      1.   There are special circumstances or conditions, fully described in
the written notice of appeal, which are peculiar to the property (properties)
and do not apply generally to properties within the Village, and that said
circumstances or conditions are such that the strict application of the Code
would deprive the permittee of the reasonable use of the subject property
(properties).
      2.   For the reasons fully set forth in the written notice of appeal, the
granting of the variance is necessary for the reasonable use of the property
(properties) and that the variance, as recommended for approval by the Village
Board, is the minimum variance that will accomplish this purpose.
      3.   The result of granting of the variance will be in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of standards set forth within this Code and in
harmony with this Chapter, and will not be injurious to adjacent property or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
   B.   Appeal of Decisions: Any person aggrieved by any administrative
decision of the Director of the Department of Municipal Services, or their
designee, or the Director of the Community Development Department, or their
designee, in the enforcement of any terms or provisions of this Chapter may,
within ten (10) business days after the date of the decision, appeal to the
Village Manager, or their designee, by filing a written notice of appeal with
the Village Clerk. The notice of appeal shall set forth concisely the decision
and the reasons or grounds for the appeal. The Village Manager, or their
designee, will meet with the person who filed the appeal and the Village
employee or representative who issued the decision to provide them with an
opportunity to be heard and to present their respective positions and evidence
relative to the appeal. The Village Manager, or their designee, will first
attempt to resolve the matter in a manner that is agreeable to all parties, and
if such a resolution is not achieved, then the Village Manager, or their
designee, will issue a decision that affirms, modifies, or reverses the
administrative decision. The decision of the Village Manager, or their
designee, will be transmitted to the Director of the Department of Municipal
Services, or their designee, and the person who filed the appeal within ten
(10) business days of its issuance. The decision of the Village Manager, or
their designee, shall be final and no petition for reconsideration shall be
available. Reasonable notice of the meetings with the Director of Municipal
Services and the Village Manager, or their designees, shall be provided by the
Village to all affected parties. (Ord. 20-3006, 6-22-2020; amd. Ord. 22-3083,
6-13-2022)
CHAPTER 6
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-6-1: Open Burning Regulations
5-6-1: OPEN BURNING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section the following definitions
apply:
APPROVED COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS: Burning charcoal briquettes, natural gas,
propane, approved wood, or commercially prepared seasoned wood chips in
conjunction with any of the foregoing for cooking purposes.
APPROVED CONTAINER: Any outdoor fireplace or firepit constructed of stone or
fireproof blocks or brick, which may be freestanding or attached to a
residential dwelling or constructed as part of a residential dwelling chimney.
A commercially manufactured device specifically designed, intended, advertised
and utilized for the purpose of campfires, such as chimineas and portable
outdoor fireplaces. Such approved container may be located aboveground or may
be built into the ground or located below grade.
APPROVED WOOD: Seasoned dry firewood of dimensions appropriate to safely fit
within the approved container. In particular, but without limitation, approved
wood shall not include any green or fresh materials; nor shall it include any
leaves, grass, bushes, roots or other similar materials, nor shall it include
any construction materials, such as treated woods, plywood or pressure treated
wood, or any other materials which produce excessive smoke, cinders or other
emissions characteristics of nonseasoned wood.
BONFIRE: A safely conducted and controlled outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial
purposes or as part of a civic or community event. In order to conduct a
bonfire, the issuance of a village permit in accordance with this section is
required. A bonfire is a large scale open fire of that which exceeds the
capacity of an approved container and is typically constructed as a large pile
of combustible materials.
CONTROLLED BURN: A safely conducted and controlled outdoor fire utilized to
remove trees, grasses and other vegetation for purposes of eliminating natural
wildfire threats and preparing areas for new tree, grass and vegetation growth.
A controlled burn can also involve the intentional burning of a structure, like
a house, by fire department personnel for fire training purposes or a bonfire.
In order to conduct a controlled burn, the issuance of a village permit in
accordance with this section is required.
OPEN FIRES: Any fire from which the products of combustion are emitted directly
into the open air without passing through a stack or chimney designed to
control air pollution emissions. Backyard incineration in a container of any
type shall be considered an open fire. This definition shall not include open
fires used for the purpose of barbecuing, bonfires, campfires, fires in private
indoor fireplaces or fires in an outdoor approved container using approved wood
or other approved combustible materials. Smoke emissions from open fires used
for barbecuing or private indoor fireplaces shall not exceed the limits set
forth in this section.
PERSON: Any individual, company, organization, operator, user, owner, employee
or any representative thereof acting in any capacity. The masculine, feminine,
singular or plural is included in any circumstance.
PREMISES: Any real estate or real property.
RECREATIONAL CAMPFIRE: A safely conducted outdoor fire utilized for comfort or
relaxation. No village permit is required to conduct a recreational campfire.
REFUSE: Combustible trash including, but not limited to, paper, cartons, boxes,
barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding; noncombustible trash including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rocks and pieces of concrete, glass,
crockery, other mineral wastes; street rubbish including, but not limited to,
street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch basin dirt, contents of litter
receptacles; and all trade wastes resulting from industrial processes and
manufacturing operations, such as food processing wastes, boiler house cinders,
lumber from lumber processing, and other trade wastes not specifically
enumerated.
RINGELMANN CHART: The chart published and described in the bureau of mines,
U.S. department of the interior, information circular no. 8333, and on which
are illustrated graduated shades of gray for use in estimating the light
obscuring capacity of smoke.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number according to each card described in the bureau of
mines, U.S. department of the interior, information circular no. 8333 which
corresponds to the density or equivalent opacity of the smoke emission.
SMOKE: Small gasborne particles, other than water, in sufficient number to be
observable. Measurements of smoke violations will be based on the percent of
visibility obscuration (equivalent capacity).
SMOKE UNIT: Ringelmann number times the minutes of emission.
STACK OR CHIMNEY: Any conduit, duct, vent, flue or opening arranged to conduct
products of combustion to the atmosphere and designed to control air pollution
emissions.
   B.   Open Burning Generally Prohibited: It shall be unlawful within the
village for any person to cause, suffer or allow "open fires" as defined in
this section, unless the open fire is conducted in accordance with the
exceptions listed below. This prohibition includes, but does not limit the
generality of the foregoing, fires for the burning of wood, fibers, plastics,
papers, cardboard, garbage, debris, leaves, tree trimmings, twigs, branches,
grass clippings, or other refuse from farming or gardening, or other
combustible materials of any kind, excluding the exceptions listed below.
   C.   Open Burning Exception; Controlled Burn Permit: Open burning of trees,
grasses and other vegetation on virgin prairie or other open fields, under a
controlled burn, may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by the village. The
controlled burn of a structure, like a house, by fire department personnel for
fire training purposes or a bonfire may be allowed upon issuance of a permit by
the village. Any person seeking to conduct a controlled burn shall submit an
application for such permit to the director of fire and emergency medical
services, who shall review such application with all applicable village
directors when necessary and shall issue such permit if he makes the following
findings:
      1.   Location; Permission: The applicant is a village resident or an
organization located in the village. The applicant must provide proof that he/
she/it has permission from the property owner to use the property for the
controlled burn.
      2.   Proper Management Of Controlled Burn: The applicant must provide
proof that he/she/it has the necessary people to properly manage the controlled
burn. The applicant is required to clean up and properly dispose of any debris,
litter or waste caused by the controlled burn. Where the applicant fails to
perform its obligations under this permit, the applicant shall agree to pay for
such special municipal services provided by the village which the village deems
as necessary to protect the health, welfare and safety of the public in regard
to the controlled burn and/or to clean up and dispose of any debris, litter or
waste caused by the controlled burn. The charges for such special municipal
services, if provided, will be based on the actual out of pocket costs incurred
by the village and will result in recouping one hundred percent (100%) of
billable expenses, including, but not limited to, staff hours and any
dispensable village resources used.
      3.   No Harm Anticipated: It is anticipated that no harm will result from
the controlled burn and that it is being done for the purpose of preserving or
restoring virgin prairie flora for historical, cultural, educational and
conservation reasons or for fire training purposes or for ceremonial purposes
or as part of a civic or community event.
      4.   Other Village Assets Deployed: As directed by the director of fire
and emergency medical services, in his discretion, the following village assets
may be deployed to include one or more personnel from the department of fire
and emergency medical services, the village engineer's office and the village
forester's office. These additional resources may be assigned to be present at
the controlled burn site and present during all open burning periods.
      5.   Notification To Adjacent Property Owners: The applicant shall
provide the director of fire and emergency medical services with proof that the
applicant hand delivered written notification of the date, time and expected
duration of the controlled burn to all village residents and village businesses
located immediately adjacent to and within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the
controlled burn site prior to conducting the controlled burn.
      6.   Notification To Other Municipalities: If the controlled burn site is
within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the village's corporate boundaries, the
applicant shall provide the director of fire and emergency medical services
with proof that the applicant hand delivered written notification to all
immediately adjacent municipal governmental entities and agencies including
quasi-governmental agencies such as the Illinois toll highway authority prior
to conducting the controlled burn.
      7.   Notification Of Stoppage In Writing: If the controlled burn is
stopped for any foreseeable reason prior to the set date by any governmental
entity or agency, all previously notified governmental entities and agencies
shall be immediately notified in writing of the stoppage. In addition, the
director of fire and emergency medical services or his designee will be called
twenty four (24) hours in advance of the cancellation in order to notify
previously scheduled municipal resources they won't be necessary.
      8.   Notification Of Stoppage Via Phone: If the controlled burn must be
stopped on that date or while in progress all previously notified governmental
entities and agencies and the director of fire and emergency medical services
or his designee shall be notified via phone contact immediately. Twenty four
(24) hour written notification shall be provided to those who received notice
under subsections C5, C6 and C7 of this section prior to restarting the
controlled burn.
      9.   Statements: The following statements shall be included on the
village permit and signed by the applicant:
         a.   The applicant agrees to release, waive, indemnify and hold
harmless the village of Western Springs, its present and future elected or
appointed officers and officials, president and trustees, agents, attorneys,
engineers, volunteers, representatives and employees for all claims or causes
of action, liabilities, losses and damages of any kind arising from or relating
to the issuance of this permit or conducting the controlled burn.
         b.   The village reserves the right to charge the applicant for
special municipal services, such as police, fire and public works personnel and
services that are necessary to protect the health, welfare and safety of the
public in regard to the controlled burn and/or to clean up and dispose of any
debris, litter or waste caused by the controlled burn in the case where the
applicant fails to perform its obligations under this permit. The applicant
agrees to pay for such special municipal services provided by the village which
are necessary to protect the health, welfare and safety of the public in regard
to the controlled burn. The charges for such special municipal services, if
provided, will be based on the actual out of pocket costs incurred by the
village.
      10.   Necessary Governmental Permits: The applicant shall provide the
director of fire and emergency medical services with proof that the applicant
secured all necessary governmental permits, if any, from governmental entities
or agencies with jurisdiction prior to conducting the controlled burn.
      11.   Permit For Controlled Burn Required: It shall be unlawful for any
person to conduct a controlled burn without first obtaining a permit.
      12.   Controlled Burn Application Fee: The applicant shall pay a
nonrefundable application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) at the time of
submittal of the controlled burn application.
   D.   Permitted Open Fires: The following open fires shall be permitted as
follows:
      1.   The burning of approved wood or approved combustible materials
within an approved container; provided that any refuse burning incinerator
installed in any residence building shall comply with the rules and regulations
of the Illinois pollution control board as the same may from time to time be in
effect (see state of Illinois air pollution control requirements technical
release no. 140-2, dated October 1969, and subsequent releases); and
      2.   The burning of charcoal briquettes, natural gas, propane, approved
wood, or commercially prepared seasoned wood chips in conjunction with any of
the foregoing for cooking purposes; and
      3.   The burning of "approved wood", as defined in this section, in an
outdoor bonfire at a gathering conducted by religious, educational or other not
for profit organization; provided that a permit therefor is previously issued
by the village and that such bonfire is attended by adult supervision and
otherwise is in compliance with this code; and
      4.   The burning of "approved wood" in an "approved container" for
recreational campfires, as these terms are defined in this section, or in an
exterior masonry fireplace in a safe and controlled manner, provided compliance
with the following:
         a.   Such fire shall be under the control of and attended at all times
by a person eighteen (18) years of age or older; and
         b.   A portable fire extinguisher having a minimum rating of 4-A or
other approved extinguishing agent such as sand, dirt or water of sufficient
quantity shall be available for immediate use; and
         c.   Such fire shall at all times be safely managed and shall not be
permitted whenever atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fire
hazardous; and
         d.   Such approved containers of fire shall be located in an area
separated from any building or structure, including wooden decks, or other
combustible materials, by not less than ten feet (10'), except for fires
located in exterior masonry fireplaces attached to occupied residences or
buildings. The approved container shall be located at least five feet (5') away
from any lot line; and
         e.   Such fire shall not be permitted to create excessive flames,
odors, flying cinders or smoke so that flames, odors, cinders or smoke travels
across the property boundary from which the fire originates; and
         f.   At no time shall such fire be utilized for waste disposal
purposes.
   E.   Dense Smoke:
      1.   It is unlawful to cause or permit the emission of dense smoke from
any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner, or any approved container in the
village.
      2.   For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the
Ringelmann smoke chart, as published and used by the United States geological
survey, shall be, and is adopted as, a standard for such grading, and "smoke"
shall be, and is, defined as and declared to be dense when it is of a degree of
density of number three of the chart, or greater, for more than six (6) minutes
in any one hour; whether such period of time is consecutive or not. (Ord. 13-
2719, 5-20-2013)
CHAPTER 7
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
5-7-1: Clean Indoor Air/Smoking Regulations
5-7-1: CLEAN INDOOR AIR/SMOKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Controlling Regulations: For the purposes of regulating clean indoor
air and smoking in the Village of Western Springs, the provisions of the Smoke
Free Illinois Act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/1 et seq., as amended, and
the regulations of the Illinois Department of Public Health, as amended, along
with any applicable regulations under Federal law, shall be controlling except
to the extent that the Village has adopted the following definition of "smoke"
or "smoking":
SMOKE OR SMOKING: Means: 1) inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any
lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or other lighted tobacco product in any manner
or in any form; 2) inhaling or exhaling from, turning on, powering, ingesting
or utilizing in any form any device intended for the atomization, charring,
burning, piezoelectronic ignition of or ingestion of tobacco products or
nicotine in any gaseous, smoke, aerosol, vaporous or other similar form,
including but not limited to the use of any e-cigarette, personal vaporizer
used with nicotine or tobacco derivatives, electronic nicotine delivery system,
e-puffer, cartomizer or other similar device; 3) use of any other device
intended for the gaseous, smoke, aerosol, vaporous or other similar airborne
ingestion of tobacco, tobacco derivatives, nicotine, or nicotine derivatives;
or, 4) completing any of the foregoing actions utilizing any form of smoked,
aerosolized, ionized, vaporous or similar airborne ingestion of marijuana,
cannabis or any derivative thereof. Smoking shall not include non-airborne
forms of tobacco, nicotine or medical cannabis ingestion such as use of chewing
tobacco or use of nicotine patches. "Smoke" or "smoking" also does not include
smoking that is associated with a native recognized religious ceremony, ritual,
or activity by American Indians that is in accordance with the Federal American
Indian Religious Freedom Act, 42 USC 1996 and 1996a.
This definition of "smoke" or "smoking" shall be used in the Village's
enforcement of the provisions of the Smoke Free Illinois Act, 410 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 82/1 et seq., as amended, and the regulations of the Illinois
Department of Public Health, as amended, along with any applicable regulations
under Federal law.
   B.   Violations:
      1.   A person, corporation, partnership, association or other entity who
violates the Smoke Free Illinois Act shall be fined pursuant to this section.
Each day that a violation occurs is a separate violation.
      2.   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited under the
Smoke Free Illinois Act shall be fined in an amount that is not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00). A person who owns, operates, or otherwise controls a public place or
place of employment that violates the Smoke Free Illinois Act shall be fined:
a) not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first violation,
b) not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second violation within
one year after the first violation, and c) not less than two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each additional violation within one year after
the first violation.
      3.   A fine imposed under this section shall be allocated as follows:
         a.   One-half (1/2) of the fine shall be distributed to the Illinois
Department of Public Health; and
         b.   One-half (1/2) of the fine shall be distributed to the Village of
Western Springs. (Ord. 18-2930, 8-20-2018)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Of Illinois Statutes Adopted By Reference
6-1-2: Weapons
6-1-1: STATE OF ILLINOIS STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Incorporation Of State Statutes: Except insofar as the application
thereof is clearly impractical or inappropriate, in view of the context of
purposes or penalty as provided, all of the definitions, requirements,
regulations, prohibitions, provisions and sections of the following state of
Illinois statutes, as amended, are adopted by reference by the village:
      1.   Pyrotechnic use act, 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 35/0.01 et seq.;
      2.   Illinois vehicle code, criminal damage to property, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-102(a)(1);
      3.   Illinois vehicle code, bridge and railroad signals, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-1011;
      4.   Illinois vehicle code, trespassing on railroad property, terminal
security, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18C-7503;
      5.   Criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq.;
      6.   Cannabis control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.;
and
      7.   Drug paraphernalia control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/
1 et seq.
   B.   Penalty: Any and all violations of the state of Illinois statutes
adopted by reference herein shall be considered violations of this section, and
each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to a fine not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 15-2802, 5-18-
2015)
6-1-2: WEAPONS:
   A.   Discharging Firearms And Air Guns: It shall be unlawful to discharge
any firearm or air gun in the village; provided, however, that this subsection
shall not be construed to prohibit any law enforcement officer from discharging
a firearm or an air gun in the performance of his duty; nor to any citizen from
discharging a firearm or air gun when lawfully defending his person or
property. It shall not be a violation of this subsection for a law enforcement
officer or other authorized person to discharge a firearm or an air gun on
premises used by the department of law enforcement services as a target
shooting range.
   B.   Discharge Of Other Weapons: It shall be unlawful to discharge or
operate any toy firearm, bow, crossbow, slingshot or other device which
discharges a bullet, arrow, pellet or other projectile; provided, however, that
nothing in this subsection shall prohibit: 1) the use of such weapons at indoor
shooting galleries or inside any private residence; and 2) the use of archery
equipment as part of a department of recreation sponsored program.
   C.   Definitions:
AIR GUN: Any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, BB gun, paintball
gun, pellet gun or any other implement or device that is not a firearm but
which expels a pellet constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead or other hard
materials or any other type of projectile or projectiles by the action of an
explosion, expansion or escape of gas or other mechanical means with a force
that may be reasonably expected to cause bodily harm.
FIREARM: As used in this section shall include the definition of "firearm" as
contained in the "firearm owners identification card act" 1 , as amended, which
is incorporated into this section by reference and shall also include any other
device, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a projectile or
projectiles by the action of an explosion, expansion or escape of gas or other
mechanical means.
The terms "firearm" and "air gun" and "weapon" are interchangeable.
   D.   Hunting: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in killing or to
hunt any bird or animal in the village using a firearm, air gun or other
weapon.
   E.   Concealed Weapons: It shall be unlawful to carry any concealed weapons
in the village without having first secured a license to carry such concealed
weapons issued under the laws of the state.
   F.   Penalties; Confiscation: In addition to all other penalties provided
for in this code or under state or federal law, any firearm, air gun or weapon
used in violation of this section shall be forfeited to and confiscated by the
village. (Ord. 04-2305, 6-28-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 430 ILCS 65/1.1.
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Status Of Animals Within The Village
6-2-3: License Fee; Registration; Eligibility If Debt Owed To Village
6-2-4: Register; Tags; Collars
6-2-5: Vaccination Against Rabies
6-2-6: Lost Tags
6-2-7: Removing License Tags
6-2-8: Number Of Animals Permitted
6-2-9: Running At Large Prohibited
6-2-10: Complaint Procedure
6-2-11: Disposition Of Animals
6-2-12: Holding Facility Registry
6-2-13: Redemption Of Animals; Impoundment Procedures
6-2-14: Dangerous Or Vicious, Biting And Barking Dogs Or Animals
6-2-15: Animal Waste
6-2-16: Owner's Duties
6-2-17: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
6-2-18: Electric Or Electronic Pet Containment Systems
6-2-19: Penalties
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
ANIMAL: Every living creature, domestic or wild, but does not include human
beings.
AT LARGE: Be off the premises of its owner or keeper and not under restraint of
a competent person.
CATS: All members of the feline species.
COMPETENT PERSON: A person who is physically and mentally capable of
controlling an animal under restraint.
DOGS: All members of the domestic canine species.
ELECTRIC OR ELECTRONIC PET CONTAINMENT SYSTEM: Any electric or electronic pet
containment system, located either aboveground or underground, that is designed
and installed for the purpose of containing pets within any geographic area
through electric or electronic means.
HOLDING FACILITY: Any facility for the purpose of impounding or harboring
seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted animals or any veterinary
hospital or clinic authorized by the Village.
LEASH: A cord, thong, rope, strap or chain which shall be securely fastened to
the collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient
strength to keep such dog or other animal under control.
LIVESTOCK: Any animal of the species of horse, ass, mule, oxen, cattle, sheep,
goat or swine.
NUISANCE: Any undue and repeated disturbance, imminent danger to any property,
imminent danger to a person's safety or other animals' safety and/or assessable
damage to a person or other animals or to property caused by the presence of an
animal upon the premises or property of the complainant.
OWNER: Any person owning, harboring or keeping an animal. The occupant or
person in control of any premises on which an animal remains or to which it
customarily returns daily for a period of ten (10) days or more shall be
presumed to be harboring or keeping the animals.
POULTRY: Chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or pigeons.
RESTRAINT: An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter if
it is on its owner's or keeper's premises in a fenced yard or on a leash of not
more than ten feet (10') in length.
WILD GAME: Deer, raccoon, possum, skunk, lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar,
cheetah, margay, mountain lion, Canada lynx, bobcats, jaguarundi, hyena,
coyote, fox, poisonous reptile or wild rabbit. (Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-1983; amd.
Ord. 09-2525, 2-23-2009; Ord. 12-2665, 3-26-2012; Ord. 16-2852, 11-28-2016)
6-2-2: STATUS OF ANIMALS WITHIN THE VILLAGE:
Animals kept within or on the property or premises of their owners; maintained
by and provided with food or by being given other privileged use of privately
owned property; brought into the Village; or otherwise present in the Village
shall, for purposes of application of this chapter, be divided into two (2)
classes:
   A.   Those animals whose ownership is established by a readable and current
license tag, or whose ownership is promptly traceable by means of any other
readable identification affixed to a collar or harness, or those animals whose
ownership is certified to by a reliable witness and is immediately verifiable,
are hereinafter classified as domesticated and protected animals.
   B.   Animals whose ownership cannot readily be established by any of the
means stated in subsection A of this section are hereinafter classified as
nondomesticated and unprotected animals. (Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-1983)
6-2-3: LICENSE FEE; REGISTRATION; ELIGIBILITY IF DEBT OWED TO VILLAGE:
Every resident of the Village who shall own or keep a dog or cat at any place
within the Village shall, at six (6) months of age or within six (6) months
after acquiring such dog or cat, or bringing the same into the Village,
whichever comes first, register such dog or cat and pay as an annual license
fee the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for each dog or cat so registered.
   A.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Chapter. (Ord. 95-1925, 1-23-
1995; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022)
6-2-4: REGISTER; TAGS; COLLARS:
   A.   Register Kept; Tags Issued: The Village Clerk shall keep a complete
register in a book for that purpose of all licensed animals, describing them by
name, breed, color and sex, and shall also enter the name and address of the
owner or keeper as given in the application and the number of the license tag.
The Clerk shall provide each year metallic tags (the shape to be changed each
year) having stamped thereon the year for which the tax is paid, the words
"Western Springs dog/cat tax", and also the number of the tag. The Village
Clerk shall deliver one tag, bearing the appropriate registered number, to each
person having paid the tax upon any such dog or cat. The tax shall be due on
April 1 of each year. (Ord. 16-2852, 11-28-2016)
   B.   Collars Required: It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any
licensed animal to keep such animal at any place within the Village unless such
animal at all times has a collar firmly attached around its neck with the
license tag for the current year attached to such collar. (Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-
1983)
6-2-5: VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES:
The owner or keeper of a dog, cat or ferret or other animal capable of being
infected with rabies, except for animal shelters, animal impounding facilities
and laboratory animal facilities shall have such animal vaccinated against
rabies by a licensed veterinarian at four (4) months of age and annually
thereafter or as required by State law and Cook County ordinance. Evidence of
vaccination shall be the standard vaccination tag and certificate issued by a
licensed veterinarian. It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor in the Village an
animal that has not been vaccinated against rabies for the current year. Any
animal placed in a holding facility shall not be released until vaccination
against rabies has been accomplished. (Ord. 09-2525, 2-23-2009)
6-2-6: LOST TAGS:
If the license tag authorized to be issued to a licensee is lost or stolen, a
duplicate license tag to correspond with the one originally issued shall be
issued upon payment to the Village by such licensee of a fee of three dollars
($3.00). (Ord. 95-1925, 1-23-1995)
6-2-7: REMOVING LICENSE TAGS:
No person, other than the animal owner, animal control officer, police officer,
veterinarian or holding facility master shall remove the collar or license tag
from any animal within the limits of the Village, unless it is with the consent
of the owner or keeper of the animal. (Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-1983)
6-2-8: NUMBER OF ANIMALS PERMITTED:
No person shall keep or allow to be kept upon the premises he occupies or uses
within the Village, more than three (3) dogs, cats, or a combination of both,
of the age of three (3) months or over at any one time. For any person to keep
more than three (3) such animals at one time shall constitute a nuisance. This
shall not apply to licensed veterinary hospitals or licensed pet shops. (Ord.
83-1657, 12-19-1983)
6-2-9: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
All running at large of dogs, cats and other domesticated animals is
prohibited. The provisions of this section shall not apply to professionally
trained dogs or other animals used for law enforcement purposes. Running "at
large" is defined in this chapter to mean that the animal is off the premises
of its owner or keeper and not under restraint of a competent person. An animal
is under "restraint" within the meaning of this chapter if it is on its owner's
or keeper's premises in a fenced yard or on a leash. Any dog or cat or other
domesticated animal running at large shall be processed as hereinafter
provided. Absent express authority of the governing public body, no dogs or
cats or other domesticated animals shall be permitted to run at large as
follows:
   A.   Parks: In parks lying within the boundaries of the Western Springs Park
District.
   B.   School Areas: On land owned by public school districts and lying within
the boundaries of the Village.
   C.   Near Public Buildings: On public grounds adjacent to buildings owned by
the Village. (Ord. 09-2525, 2-23-2009)
6-2-10: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
Upon the receipt of an animal complaint from a citizen, a police officer or an
Ordinance Control Officer shall assist the complainant as follows:
   A.   Apprehension Of Animal: Make a reasonable effort to apprehend the
animal referred to by the complainant which is in violation of the provisions
of this chapter and to proceed as otherwise provided.
   B.   Provide Information: Assist the complainant by providing information
and instructions on how to file a formal complaint for violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-1983)
6-2-11: DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS:
Animals accepted or apprehended as nondomesticated and unprotected 1  shall
immediately be designated as surplus to the capabilities of the Village to
accommodate or otherwise provide for, and they shall be delivered forthwith to
the designated animal holding facility for whatever disposition the holding
facility elects to make of them after the elsewhere stipulated holding period.
Further, neither the Village nor said holding facility shall be placed under
obligation to disclose such disposal or to answer in any manner for their
action to any party who later may seek to claim ownership. (Ord. 83-1657, 12-
19-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  6-2-2B of this chapter.
6-2-12: HOLDING FACILITY REGISTRY:
The Village shall keep a record of the breed, color and sex of the animal and
name and address of the owner, if known, and subsequent disposition of the
animal coming into its custody. (Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-1983)
6-2-13: REDEMPTION OF ANIMALS; IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice To Owner: If the owner of the animal is known, or shall
subsequently become known during impoundment, the Village shall notify the
owner of the impoundment and the procedure whereby the animal may be redeemed.
The Village shall also inform the holding facility wherein the animal is
impounded of the date that such notification has been given to the animal's
owner.
   B.   Redemption: In the event that the owner of any impounded animal desires
to make redemption thereof, the owner shall do so on the following conditions:
(Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-1983)
      1.   The owner shall present proof of valid rabies inoculation. (Ord. 83-
1657, 12-19-1983; amd. 1997 Code)
      2.   The owner shall pay to the Village an impoundment fee which shall be
in addition to any fine or other penalty provided under this section and in
addition to any costs of the holding facility.
      3.   The owner shall pay to the holding facility any daily kennel costs
and the costs of any services provided.
   C.   Adoption; Disposal: When an animal is not redeemed by the owner as
provided in subsection B of this section, the animal shall become the property
of the holding facility to be disposed of in a humane manner or made available
for adoption according to procedures established by said holding facility,
provided:
      1.   In any case where the identity of the owner is known or becomes
known, the animal may not be disposed of unless the animal is unredeemed by the
owner within seven (7) days after notice of the impoundment is given.
      2.   In any case where the identity of the owner is not known, the animal
may be disposed of only if the owner fails to redeem it within five (5) days of
the impoundment. (Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-1983)
6-2-14: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS, BITING AND BARKING DOGS OR ANIMALS:
   A.   Dangerous Or Vicious Dogs Or Animals; Biting And Howling: No dangerous,
or vicious dog or other animal, or dog which disturbs the peace and quiet of
any persons as by howling or barking, shall be harbored or kept within the
Village. Any such dog or animal, and any dog or animal which bites a person or
another animal or so injures a person or other animal as to cause an abrasion
of the skin, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be impounded. A dog or
other animal is declared to be dangerous or vicious within the meaning of this
section when a propensity to attack or to bite human beings or animals exists
or as provided for under provisions of the Illinois Animal Control Act 1 .
Where a dog or other animal injures a person or another animal or is otherwise
determined to be a dangerous or vicious dog or animal by a Village or other
governmental Code officer, animal control officer or law enforcement officer
based on the documented conduct of the dog or animal, the Village shall file a
report with the Cook County Department of Animal Control or such other
governmental agency with regulatory authority for processing under the
applicable provisions of the Illinois Animal Control Act 2 , or the Village may
take such other action as is authorized and provided for by this chapter, other
chapters of this Code or other applicable laws, including filing a nuisance
abatement action as provided for under section
5-1-6, "Abatement Of Nuisance", of this Code.
   B.   Disposition: No owner of any animal, having knowledge that such dog or
animal has bitten any person or another animal or so injured any person or
animal as to cause an abrasion of the skin, shall sell or give away such
animal, or allow such animal to be taken beyond the limits of the Village. Such
owner shall place such animal in a recognized veterinary hospital acceptable to
the Director of Law Enforcement Services and under the supervision of a
registered veterinarian for a period required by law. The hospitalization shall
be at the expense of the owner.
   C.   Seizure; Right Of Entry: Any police officer may enter upon the premises
of any owner of a dangerous or vicious animal, or any animal suffering from
rabies, or of one bitten by another animal suffering from rabies, and seize and
impound said animal. Such entry may be made on the basis of the officer's
personal knowledge of the facts, upon the filing with him of an affidavit by
any resident of the Village that there is such an animal on said premises, or
on the certificate of the Director of Law Enforcement Services that an animal
suffering from rabies or one bitten by one suffering from rabies is on said
premises. If such entry be made and the owner of said animal, or an immediate
member of his family over sixteen (16) years of age, shall refuse to deliver
such animal to such officer, and the officer cannot, with reasonable effort,
catch the animal, he may kill it forthwith. (Ord. 16-2852, 11-28-2016)
   D.   Rabid Animals; Report; Disposal: Every veterinarian or other person
discovering an animal suffering from rabies shall immediately report such fact
to the Director of Law Enforcement Services. Such report shall give the name,
if known, and the place of residence of the person owning, harboring or keeping
such animal, the place where such animal can be found, and the license number
of said animal, if known. Such animal shall be immediately taken up and placed
in a recognized veterinary hospital where it shall be observed by a qualified
veterinarian until it dies or is destroyed, after which the head shall be
removed and a suitable pathological examination of the brain shall be carried
out to determine whether or not the animal died of rabies. (Ord. 83-1657, 12-
19-1983; amd. 1997 Code)
   E.   Barking Dogs: It shall be unlawful to allow a dog to disturb the peace
and quiet of any persons by barking or howling. Barking or howling dogs must be
quieted by the owner or taken inside. (Ord. 03-2245, 6-23-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
2 2. 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
6-2-15: ANIMAL WASTE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit any animal to be on any
property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person unless such
person has in his immediate possession a device for the immediate removal of
excrement and removes it to a receptacle located upon property owned or
possessed by such person. It shall be unlawful for any person in control of,
causing or permitting any animal to be on any property, public or private, not
owned or possessed by such person to fail to immediately remove excrement left
by such animal to a proper receptacle located on property owned or possessed by
such person. (Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-1983; amd. 1997 Code)
6-2-16: OWNER'S DUTIES:
Each owner shall provide for each of his animals the following:
   A.   Food And Water: Sufficient quantity of good quality wholesome food and
water.
   B.   Shelter: Adequate shelter and protection from weather.
   C.   Veterinary Care: Veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering.
(Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-1983)
   D.   Humane Treatment: Humane care and treatment. Any animal having a
contagious disease shall be isolated and properly treated. (Ord. 12-2665, 3-26-
2012)
6-2-17: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Female Animals In Heat: The owner or keeper of any female animal who
permits such animal, while in heat, to be upon any sidewalk, street, parkway,
alley or other public place, or upon any private premises, other than the
premises of the owner or keeper which is closer to the sidewalk, street,
parkway or other public place than ten feet (10'), shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. The court may, upon conviction, order such animal committed to a
kennel at the owner's expense until such period of heat shall terminate.
   B.   Abandoning Animals: No owner may abandon any animal where it may become
a public charge or where the animal may suffer injury, hunger or exposure. Any
person who shall take, drive or drop off any animal from outside the Village
limits, into the Village limits, with the intent that such animal may be
impounded, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   Cruelty To Animals: No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat,
torment, overload, overwork or otherwise abuse any animal.
   D.   Animal Fights:
      1.   No person may own, capture, breed, train or lease any animal which
is intended for use in any activity involving a fight between such animal and
any other animal or the intentional killing of any animal for the purpose of
sport, wagering or entertainment.
      2.   No person shall promote, conduct, carry on, advertise, collect money
for, or in any other manner assist or aid in the presentation for purposes of
sport, wagering or entertainment, any show, exhibition, program or other
activity involving a fight between two (2) or more animals or the intentional
killing of any animal.
      3.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, ship, transport or otherwise
move, deliver or receive any animal which has been captured, bred or trained,
or will be used to fight another animal or be intentionally killed, for the
purpose of sport, wagering or entertainment.
      4.   No person shall manufacture for sale, shipment, transportation or
delivery any device or equipment which is intended for use in any activity
featuring or otherwise involving a fight between two (2) or more animals or the
intentional killing of any animal for purposes of sport, wagering or
entertainment.
      5.   No person shall sell or offer for sale, ship, transport or otherwise
move any equipment or device which is intended for use in connection with any
show, exhibition, program or activity featuring or otherwise involving a fight
between two (2) or more animals or the intentional killing of any animal for
purposes of sport, wagering or entertainment.
      6.   No person shall make available any site, structure or facility,
whether enclosed or not, which is intended to be used for the purpose of
conducting any activity involving a fight between two (2) or more animals or
the intentional killing of any animal. (Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-1983)
   E.   Keeping Certain Animals: No animal defined in this chapter as
"livestock" or "wild game" shall be kept, stabled or harbored in the Village.
Animals defined in this chapter as "poultry" shall be kept and maintained
within the Village only in accordance with the regulations set forth at
subsection
5-1-1N of this Code. (Ord. 11-2619, 2-28-2011)
   F.   Leghold Traps: No person shall use or permit the use of any leghold
animal trap or similar device with spring activated jaws of the type used for
the trapping of furbearing animals which is capable of inflicting cruelty upon
dogs, cats or other animals, or which constitutes a hazard to small children.
(Ord. 83-1657, 12-19-1983)
6-2-18: ELECTRIC OR ELECTRONIC PET CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the definition of
"electric or electronic pet containment system", as set forth in section
6-2-1 of this chapter, shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   B.   Compliance Required: Every electric or electronic pet containment
system constructed, installed and maintained hereafter shall comply with all
applicable provisions of this section.
   C.   Location Of System: Electric or electronic pet containment systems
shall be a permitted accessory use in any residence district, provided that it
conforms with this section and other applicable ordinances of the Village,
including the zoning ordinance. Electric or electronic pet containment systems
shall be permitted in the front, rear and corner side yard of a property only
if it is to be located at a distance not less than six feet (6') from said
property line. If the fence is proposed for any property line (such as side or
rear) which abuts a public sidewalk, the electric or electronic pet containment
systems shall be located at a distance not less than six feet (6') from the
sidewalk.
   D.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to proceed with construction,
installation, enlargement or alteration of any electric or electronic pet
containment system within the Village unless permits therefor shall have first
been obtained from the Community Development Department.
   E.   Drawings And Plans:
      1.   All specifications, drawings and plans for the construction,
installation, enlargement or alteration of any electric or electronic pet
containment system for which a permit is required shall first be presented to
the Building Commissioner for examination and approval as to proper location,
construction and use.
      2.   All plans and drawings shall be drawn to a scale of not less than
one-eighth (1/8) of an inch to the foot, on paper or cloth, in ink, or by some
process that will not fade or obliterate. All distances and dimensions shall be
accurately figured and drawings made explicit and complete, showing the lot
lines and including information pertaining to the electric or electronic pet
containment system, and all appurtenances thereto.
      3.   All electric or electronic pet containment systems shall be
constructed in conformity with the approved plans. If any deviations from such
plans are desired, a supplementary plan covering that portion of the work
involved shall be filed for approval and shall conform to the provisions of
this section.
   F.   Signs:
      1.   For any property on which an electric or electronic pet containment
system has been installed within the front yard of the property, the presence
of the system shall be indicated by the placement of no less than two (2) signs
on the property, with one sign to be located at each corner of the front yard
or corner side or rear yard property line. Such signs shall be located in such
a manner that they are able to be read from the front yard or corner side
parkway. Any signs required by this subsection shall measure no more than one
square foot in area. Any signs required by this subsection shall not require a
separate permit under any other provision of the Village's ordinances,
including the zoning ordinance.
      2.   If a property has a front yard measuring greater than sixty six feet
(66') in length, an additional sign indicating the presence of an electric or
electronic pet containment system shall be required, to be located near the
middle of the front yard property line.
   G.   Permit Fees: The fee for a permit for the construction, installation,
alteration or enlargement of an electric or electronic pet containment system
shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 12-2665, 3-26-2012)
6-2-19: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each occurrence.
   B.   For all construction, installation, alteration or enlargement of an
electric or electronic pet containment system that occurs after the effective
date of section
6-2-18, "Electric Or Electronic Pet Containment Systems", of this chapter, in
addition to any other penalties provided by this chapter, any person convicted
of violating any provision of this chapter shall be required to immediately
comply with all other applicable provisions of this chapter, including, but not
limited to, compliance with the front yard setback requirements for electric or
electronic pet containment systems described in subsection
6-2-18C of this chapter. (Ord. 12-2665, 3-26-2012)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW; CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Civil Emergency Declared
6-3-3: General Curfew
6-3-4: Curfew Restrictions
6-3-5: Effective Period
6-3-6: Notify News Media
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CIVIL EMERGENCY:
   A.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force or
violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
   B.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village,
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to said civil emergency. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
6-3-2: CIVIL EMERGENCY DECLARED:
Whenever an "emergency", as defined in section
6-3-1 of this chapter, exists, the village president shall declare the
existence by means of a written declaration setting forth the facts which
constitute the emergency. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
6-3-3: GENERAL CURFEW:
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the village president, he/she may
order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village, or
to the village as a whole, as he/she deems advisable and applicable during such
hours of the day or night as he/she deems necessary in the interest of the
public safety and welfare. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
6-3-4: CURFEW RESTRICTIONS:
After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the village president may also in
the interest of public safety and welfare make any or all of the following
orders:
   A.   Distributing Flammable Materials: Order the discontinuance of selling,
distributing or giving away gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible
products in any container other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a
motor vehicle.
   B.   Distributing Firearms: Order the discontinuance of selling,
distributing, dispensing or giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any
character whatsoever.
   C.   Other Orders: Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for
the protection of life and property. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
6-3-5: EFFECTIVE PERIOD:
The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of forty
eight (48) hours, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the village
president indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The village
president shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency
at the end of each forty eight (48) hour period during the time the said civil
emergency exists. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
6-3-6: NOTIFY NEWS MEDIA:
Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the village president or their
designee shall designate a public information officer who shall notify the news
media situated within the village and shall cause three (3) copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the village: the village hall, the water tower and the
post office. (Ord. 13-2711, 2-25-2013)
CHAPTER 4
AUTOMATIC AND MANUAL BURGLAR AND FIRE ALARMS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Permit Requirements
6-4-3: Inspection
6-4-4: Alarm Systems Annual Permit Fee
6-4-5: Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit
6-4-6: False Alarm Service Charge
6-4-7: Liability Of Village Limited
6-4-8: Penalties
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER: Any person, firm or corporation that sells, leases or
installs automatic alarm systems which transmit alarms upon receipt of a
stimulus from a detection apparatus.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, designed to
signal the occurrence of an illegal entry, fire or other activity requiring
urgent attention and response by the appropriate law enforcement department or
fire and emergency medical services departments or a private security company.
The definition of "alarm system" shall be interpreted broadly to include any
type of alarm system that is based on any type of technology and further
includes each of the alarm systems defined in this chapter, as amended:
"automatic telephone dialing system", "central station alarm system", "direct
connect alarm system" and "wireless alarm system".
ALARM USER: The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind in control of any building, structure or facility or
portion thereof wherein an alarm system is maintained.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING SYSTEM: Any alarm system which upon being activated
automatically transmits by telephone or telephone line to the Western Springs
department of law enforcement services a recorded message or code signal
indicating a need for emergency response. This system may only be programmed
for use with a seven (7) digit phone number, as designated by the permit issued
under the provisions of this chapter.
CENTRAL STATION ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system in which the alarm signal is
maintained by an agency or private security company other than the Western
Springs department of law enforcement services.
DIRECT CONNECT ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system which has the capability of
transmitting system signals to and receiving them at the Western Springs
department of law enforcement services communications center.
FALSE ALARM:
   A.   A visual and/or audible signal transmitted by an alarm system which
indicates the existence of an emergency situation, when in fact, no such
emergency exists, and, shall include any activation of an alarm system by
whatever means, but shall not include alarms resulting from any of the
following causes:
      1.   Criminal activity.
      2.   Acts of nature: earthquake, tornado, flooding, lightning or high
winds.
      3.   Fire or smoke causing structural or property damage to the protected
premises.
      4.   Telephone line malfunction.
      5.   Electrical service interruption.
      6.   Wireless service interruption.
   B.   If the alarm, when communicated to the department of law enforcement
services before an officer or fire unit is dispatched to investigate, is
clearly identified to the department as resulting from authorized entry,
authorized system test or other noncriminal cause, presence of smoke due to
accidental activation (e.g., burnt food) or any other related incident where
the system operated properly, it shall not be considered a false alarm. If
police and/or fire units responding to an alarm and checking the protected
premises, do not discover any evidence of unauthorized entry, criminal activity
or fire, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the alarm is false.
Department of law enforcement services and department of fire and emergency
medical services records shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated
therein with regard to alarms and responses.
WIRELESS ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical and/or electrical,
that utilizes wireless technology to signal and receive the occurrence of an
illegal entry, fire or other activity requiring urgent attention and response
by the appropriate law enforcement or fire and emergency medical services
departments or a private security company. See also, the definition of
"wireless protection system" as defined in section 3.3.212 of the "National
Fire Alarm Code Handbook Of 2002", as amended, which is incorporated herein by
reference. (Ord. 12-2690, 8-27-2012)
6-4-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall install, operate or maintain any
"alarm system", as defined in this chapter, prior to obtaining a permit as
required by this section. Exception: Due to their low voltage electrical
design, wireless alarm systems that are not mandated by another section of code
do not require a permit, but shall require a certificate of registration
("certificate") as provided for below. The purpose of the certificate is to
provide the village with information of the existence of the alarm system and
sufficient contact information for the property owner, property manager and the
designated security alarm company for a property that has an active alarm
system operating within the village, but not connected to the village's
communication centers, in order to assist the village police and fire personnel
when they respond to any type of service call at the property.
   B.   Application For Permit Or Certificate Of Registration; Fee:
Applications for permits to install, maintain and operate a code mandated alarm
system shall be filed with the department of code enforcement on forms supplied
by the village and shall be accompanied by an application fee of fifty dollars
($50.00). Applications for certificates pertaining to the installation,
maintenance and operation of a wireless alarm system not mandated by code,
installed at the owner's request not connected to the village's communications
centers shall be filed with the department of law enforcement services on forms
supplied by the village and shall be accompanied by an application fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   C.   Contents Of Application: The application shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Name and address of alarm user.
      2.   Name and address of the premises where the alarm system is located.
      3.   Designation of the type of alarm system (automatic telephone dialing
system, central station alarm system, direct connect alarm system and wireless
alarm system) and a general description of the alarm system which classifies it
as burglary, safe, hold up, fire, medical or other, and the presence of silent
alarms and any audible or visual alerting signals on the premises. Any alarm
system classified as other shall include a brief description as to category
type.
      4.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of at least three (3) or
more persons who are responsible for the premises where the alarm system is
located, and who may be contacted to reset the alarm system.
      5.   The name, address and telephone number of the person, firm or
corporation authorized to reset the alarm system when no person described in
subsection C4 of this section can be reached.
      6.   The name, address and telephone number of the person, firm or
corporation which installed the alarm system and of the person, firm or
corporation responsible for the maintenance and repair of the alarm system.
      7.   A provision which the alarm user has read and signed which reads as
follows:
By signing this application, the alarm user agrees that he/she has read and
understood the following release, indemnification and hold harmless provisions:
the alarm user agrees to release and not hold liable the Village of Western
Springs, and its appointed and elected officials, officers, employees, contract
employees, volunteers and agents (the "Village Affiliates") for any claims,
causes of actions, losses, damages or liabilities of any kind brought by any
person, including but not limited to any property damage and any death, injury
or illness that arises from or relates to any actual or claimed failure of
service or any consequential damages claimed to result from such failure, or
the installation, inspection, surveillance or operation of the user's alarm
system or the Village's alarm system or its receiving panels or of any other
component part of the alarm system, whether or not due to the negligent,
willful or reckless acts or omission of the Village or any of the Village
Affiliates. The alarm user further agrees that the alarm user shall defend,
indemnify and hold harmless the Village of Western Springs and the Village
Affiliates from any claims, causes of actions, losses, damages or liabilities
of any kind brought by any person, including but not limited to any property
damage and any death, injury or illness, arising out of or relating to this
application or any permit or any certificate issued by the Village, any act or
omission by the Village or the Village Affiliates in regard to this
application, the alarm user's connection to the Village system, the alarm
user's decision to not connect to the Village's system, where not mandated by
another code provision, the operation of the alarm user's alarm system, the
operation of the Village alarm system, or the response or non-response of any
Village Affiliates to the alarm user's property.
   D.   Approval Of Permit: The community development department, department of
law enforcement services and department of fire and emergency medical services,
whichever is mandating the alarm, may approve such application if it is found
that:
      1.   The use of the alarm system will not interfere with the orderly
conduct of village business.
      2.   The alarm equipment supplier installing the system maintains a
service organization capable of promptly and effectively repairing, maintaining
and otherwise servicing the alarm sold or leased by the supplier.
      3.   All installations shall comply with the village electrical code 1 .
      4.   For fire alarm systems, the most current National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) standard for the installation, maintenance and testing of
fire alarm systems shall be followed.
Notwithstanding the above, the department of law enforcement services and the
department of fire and emergency medical services may impose reasonable
conditions on the issuance and exercise of permits relating to the ability of
the department of law enforcement services/department of fire and emergency
medical services to respond to such alarms based upon the location of the alarm
system and access thereto.
   E.   Exemptions: No permit shall be required for any alarm system legally in
place and legally operational at the date of passage of this chapter, November
22, 1993. However, any substantial modification or repair to an existing system
or equipment shall require the alarm user to apply for a permit and comply with
provisions of this chapter and follow the most current National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) standard for the installation, maintenance and testing of
fire alarm systems. Substantial modification or repair shall be determined by
the community development department in conjunction with the department of law
enforcement services and department of fire and emergency medical services, if
needed.
   F.   Approval Of Certificates For Wireless Alarm Systems Not Connected To
The Village: The department of law enforcement services may approve such
application if it is found that:
      1.   The use of the alarm system will not interfere with the orderly
conduct of village business.
      2.   The alarm equipment supplier installing the system maintains a
service organization capable of promptly and effectively repairing, maintaining
and otherwise servicing the alarm sold or leased by the supplier.
      3.   The alarm equipment supplier installing the alarm system shall
verify to the village that the system and installation conforms to the
applicable village code provisions and the most current National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) standard for the installation, maintenance and
testing of wireless fire alarm systems.
      4.   The approval of the application does not constitute that a system
inspection has been conducted by either the department of law enforcement
services or department of fire and emergency medical services. (Ord. 12-2690,
8-27-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 3 of this code.
6-4-3: INSPECTION:
   A.   General: The community development department and/or the department of
fire and emergency medical services, whichever applies based on the statutory
requirements for the system shall have the right to inspect any alarm system
installed pursuant to this chapter, both prior to and subsequent to the
issuance of a permit, at any reasonable time to determine whether a permit
should be issued, or if issued, whether the alarm system is being used in
conformity with the terms of the permit and the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Wireless Alarm Systems: In general, there will not be a village
inspection of the installation of a wireless alarm system that is not mandated
by code. However, the community development department and/or the department of
fire and emergency medical services, whichever applies based on the statutory
requirements for the system, will have the right but not the obligation to
inspect any such wireless alarm system installed pursuant to this chapter, both
prior to and subsequent to the issuance of a certificate of registration, at
any reasonable time, to determine whether a certificate should be issued, or,
if issued, whether the alarm system is being used in conformity with the terms
of the certificate and the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 12-2690, 8-27-
2012)
6-4-4: ALARM SYSTEMS ANNUAL PERMIT FEE:
Each holder of a permit for a direct connect alarm system only shall pay to the
village, on or before April 1 of each year, a service fee in the amount of
twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 12-2690, 8-27-2012)
6-4-5: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
The department of law enforcement services and department of fire and emergency
medical services may revoke or suspend any permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, and may cause an alarm user, where permit is
revoked or suspended, to be disconnected from the authorized alarm panel
located in the department of law enforcement services communications center,
after giving written notice to the permit holder and an opportunity for the
permit holder to be heard, upon a determination that the alarm system covered
by the permit has been installed, maintained or operated in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter or of any term or condition of the permit, or
for failure to pay any applicable service fee or charge. (Ord. 12-2690, 8-27-
2012)
6-4-6: FALSE ALARM SERVICE CHARGE:
An alarm user shall be assessed a service charge for each "false alarm" as
defined in section
6-4-1 of this chapter in excess of one per billing quarter. An alarm owner
shall be assessed a service charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) for an illegal
entry false alarm, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a residential fire false
alarm, and two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a commercial fire false alarm.
Such service charge shall be remitted to the village by the alarm user upon
receipt of a statement for such service charge. The director of law enforcement
services or the director of fire and emergency medical services, whichever
applies, shall be granted the ability to waive any and all charges if he deems
it necessary or in the best interests of the village. (Ord. 12-2690, 8-27-2012)
6-4-7: LIABILITY OF VILLAGE LIMITED:
The village assumes no liability for any defects in the operation of an alarm
system because of the failure or neglect of any person associated with the
installation, operation or maintenance of the alarm system, or for the
transmission of alarm signals or the relaying of such signals and messages.
(Ord. 12-2690, 8-27-2012)
6-4-8: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
violation for each day that the violation continues, and each day that the
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense subject to a separate
penalty. Such a fine shall be in addition to any other fee or charge authorized
pursuant to the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Possession Or Sale Of Tobacco Products (Minors)
6-5-2: Parental Responsibility
6-5-1: POSSESSION OR SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS (MINORS):
   A.   Definitions:
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: Means a product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means and includes, but is not limited to, e-
cigarettes. Alternative nicotine product excludes cigarettes, smokeless
tobacco, or other tobacco products as these terms are defined in section 1 of
the Prevention of Tobacco Use by Minors and Sale and Distribution of Tobacco
Products Act 1  and any product approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration as a non-tobacco product for sale as a tobacco cessation
product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is
being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
E-CIGARETTE: Means a device, usually battery-powered, that heats nicotine,
releasing a nicotine vapor that can be inhaled by the user of the device. Not
by way of limitation, the term "e-cigarette" includes e-cigar, e-cigarillo, e-
pipe, e-hookah, or any other device that heats nicotine, releasing a nicotine
vapor that can be inhaled by the user of the device.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Means any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but
not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or
dipping tobacco. The term "tobacco products" also includes "e-cigarette" even
if certain e-cigarettes do not contain any tobacco. (Ord. 18-2930, 8-20-2018)
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Sale Of Tobacco To Minor: No person in this Village shall sell, buy
or furnish any cigar, cigarette, e-cigarette, alternative nicotine product or
tobacco in any of its forms, to any minor under twenty one (21) years of age.
      2.   Possession Of Tobacco By Minor: It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years to possess any tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products including, but not limited to, e-cigarettes,
provided, that the possession by a person under the age of twenty one (21)
years under the direct supervision of the parent or guardian of such person in
the privacy of the parent's or guardian's home shall not be prohibited. It
shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
misrepresent his identity or age, or to use any false or altered identification
for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products or alternative nicotine products
including, but not limited to, e-cigarettes.
      3.   Purchase By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years to purchase tobacco products or alternative
nicotine products including, but not limited to, e-cigarettes, or to
misrepresent his identity or age, or use any false or altered identification
for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products or alternative nicotine products
including, but not limited to, e-cigarettes.
      4.   Certain Free Distributions: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or
any person in the business of selling or otherwise distributing, promoting or
advertising tobacco products, or any employee or agent of any such licensee or
person, in the course of such licensee's or person's business to distribute,
give away or deliver tobacco products or alternative nicotine products
including, but not limited to, e-cigarettes free of charge to any person on any
right-of-way, park, playground or other property owned by the Village, any
school district or any park district.
   C.   Signs Posted: Signs informing the public of the age restrictions
provided for herein shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display
of tobacco products or on or upon every vending machine which offers tobacco
products for sale. Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW
(Ord. 19-2958, 6-24-2019)
   D.   Penalty: In addition to any other penalty provided for in this Code,
including section
3-9-11 of this Code, whoever violates any provision of this section shall be
fined an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. Each day such violation shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 18-2930, 8-20-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 675/1 et seq.
6-5-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this Code, unless the context otherwise
requires, the terms specified have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
Circuit Court of the State but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act.
MINOR: A person who has not yet reached eighteen (18) years of age. (1978 Code
§ 7-3-12; amd. Ord. 02-2201, 7-15-2002)
   B.   Failure To Exercise Proper Parental Responsibility: The parent or legal
guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian
shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have failed
to exercise proper parental responsibility and said minor shall be deemed to
have committed the acts described below with the knowledge and permission of
the parent or guardian, in violation of this Code, upon the occurrence of the
events described below:
      1.   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property,
or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property; and (1978 Code § 7-3-12)
      2.   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned, from the
Department of Law Enforcement Services following said adjudication or
nonjudicial sanction; and (1978 Code § 7-3-12; amd. 1997 Code)
      3.   If at any time within one year following receipt of the notice set
forth above, said minor is either adjudicated to be in violation of any
ordinance, law or statute as described above, or shall have incurred
nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency resulting from an admission
of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described above.
(1978 Code § 7-3-12)
CHAPTER 6
LASER POINTERS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Possession By Underage Persons Prohibited
6-6-2: Aiding Or Assisting Underage Person In Obtaining Prohibited
6-6-3: Liability Of Parent Or Legal Guardian
6-6-4: Penalties
6-6-1: POSSESSION BY UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall possess within the
Village any laser pointers of the following type:
      1.   A Helium Neon (HeNe) laser which typically operates at a wavelength
of 632.8nMe with the mandated power limit of 5mW of power. Said lasers are
considered Class 2 lasers with the potential for eye injury; and
      2.   A diode laser which typically operates at a wavelength of 670nMe
(although others are possible) with a power source providing 5mW. Said lasers
are considered Class 3A lasers, with the potential for eye injury.
      3.   Any other type of laser which has the potential for eye injury.
   B.   This prohibition shall not apply to:
      1.   A child using such a laser pointer while under the immediate
supervision of his or her parent or legal guardian;
      2.   A student using such a laser pointer while under the immediate
supervision of his or her teacher;
      3.   An employee using such a laser pointer at the direction and under
the supervision of his or her employer. (Ord. 99-2078, 3-22-1999)
6-6-2: AIDING OR ASSISTING UNDERAGE PERSON IN OBTAINING PROHIBITED:
No person shall aid, assist or abet a person under the age of eighteen (18) in
obtaining possession of laser pointers, as defined herein. This prohibition
shall not apply to:
   A.   A parent or legal guardian assisting and supervising his or her own
child or ward in the use of such laser pointers;
   B.   A teacher assisting and supervising his or her student in the use of
such laser pointers;
   C.   An employer assisting and supervising his or her employee in the use of
such laser pointers. (Ord. 99-2078, 3-22-1999)
6-6-3: LIABILITY OF PARENT OR LEGAL GUARDIAN:
The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides with such
parent or legal guardian shall be subject to those penalties enumerated in
subsection
6-5-2 of this Title. (Ord. 99-2078, 3-22-1999)
6-6-4: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of an offense of this Chapter shall be subject to the
penalty set forth in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 99-2078, 3-22-1999)
CHAPTER 7
RULES OF CONDUCT FOR VILLAGE BUILDINGS AND VILLAGE LAND
SECTION:
6-7-1: Rules Of Conduct
6-7-1: RULES OF CONDUCT:
No person shall:
   A.   Intentionally or wilfully annoy, harass, threaten, throw objects, use
profane or obscene language against another person, whether physical, verbal or
nonverbal, that is "intense" or made with intent to imminently commit an
assault, or use any threats that continue to be made after intervention by
village personnel, including disorderly, loud or boisterous behavior.
   B.   Damage or deface public property.
   C.   Improperly remove village property.
   D.   Loiter in any village building, lobby or front of any village building,
or on any village property in an unreasonable manner that alarms or disturbs
others or provokes a breach of the peace.
   E.   Enter or remain in any village building without wearing shoes and a
shirt.
   F.   Pander or beg in any village building, lobby or front of any village
building, or on any village property. Solicitation activity in accordance with
regulations of this code is permitted.
   G.   Engage in loud or boisterous conduct.
   H.   Unlawfully use, possess or sell alcoholic liquors or controlled
substances as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/102.
   I.   Be in a state of noticeable intoxication, or in possession of
intoxicants (unless the intoxicants have not been opened and are in their
original sealed packaging or a wine bottle that has been sealed in accordance
with state liquor law).
   J.   Utter profane, obscene or injurious language directed at another
person.
   K.   Remain in any village building or on village property after regular
closing hours, except with the approval of the village manager.
   L.   Move furniture or fixtures from their original placement without
village approval.
   M.   Obstruct in any manner any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk, or any other public place or building by hindering or impeding, or
tending to hinder or impede, the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles,
traffic or pedestrians, except for police, law enforcement, fire or other
authorized village or government personnel to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the public or for a public purpose.
   N.   Interfere with the free access or passage of any person to or from or
within any village building or any village property, including blocking the
entrance or exit of any village building or any village property with their
person, except for police, law enforcement, fire or other authorized village or
government personnel to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public or
for a public purpose.
   O.   Obstruct or interfere in any manner with the free and uninterrupted use
of property or with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or
facing or fronting on any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building, all of which prevents the free and
uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress therein, thereon and thereto, except
for police, law enforcement, fire or other authorized village or government
personnel to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public or for a
public purpose.
   P.   Possess or display any weapon or firearm or any object that can be
construed to be a weapon or firearm or any other instrument that can be used as
a weapon in any village building or on any village property, unless the
possession and display of the weapon or firearm is in accordance with
applicable state law.
   Q.   Bring more than two (2) bags of personal belongings per person into any
village building or on any village property.
   R.   Commit indecent exposure as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-30.
   S.   Deposit garbage and trash in any village building or on any village
property, except in a trash receptacle.
   T.   Listen to an electronic device, in any village building, that is
audible within five feet (5') without the use of earphones.
   U.   Fight, including verbal altercations, in any village building or on
village property.
   V.   Use a bathroom in a nonhygienic or irresponsible manner that would have
a negative effect or impact on subsequent users.
   W.   Do any act, harass, disrupt, interfere with or obstruct in any manner
any village, public or governmental business or function being conducted within
any village building or on any village land.
   X.   Refuse to depart from the premises or grounds of any building owned,
operated or used by any unit of local government including, but not limited to,
schools, libraries, the park district or the village, if requested to leave,
either orally or in writing, by a government staff member, police officer or
other appropriate public official when the continued presence of the person
presents a risk of injury or damage to or endangers the safety of the building
or its occupants or unreasonably interferes with the administration thereof.
   Y.   Refuse to depart from any village building or any village land, if
requested to leave, either orally or in writing, by a village staff member,
police officer or other appropriate village official due to a violation of
these rules or any other law or ordinance of the village.
   Z.   Violate any law or ordinance of the village. (Ord. 12-2666, 3-26-2012)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted By Reference
7-1-2: Traffic Signs And Signals
7-1-3: Disregarding A Traffic Control Device
7-1-4: Private Regulation Of Traffic And On-Street Parking On Certain Private
Streets And On-Street Parking
7-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois vehicle code 1 , as amended, are hereby adopted by the
village. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
title, and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this title if proceeded hereunder. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
7-1-2: TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
   A.   Unauthorized Signs: No person shall place, maintain or display upon or
in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector
or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct
the movement of traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon
or in view of any street any other sign which hides from view or interferes
with the movement of traffic or effectiveness of any traffic control device or
any railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall
any public authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. No fence, tree, bush or foliage of any kind
shall be so placed, maintained, allowed to remain or displayed upon either
public or private property in such a manner as to hide from view or interfere
with the movement of traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic control
devices, signs or signals. All such obstructions or unauthorized devices are
hereby declared to be nuisances and may be removed by any police officer or a
person acting under his direction and supervision. (1978 Code § 9-1-7; amd.
1997 Code)
   B.   Interference With Signs Or Signals: It shall be unlawful for any person
to deface, injure, move or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(1978 Code § 9-1-8)
   C.   Advertising Signs:
      1.   Imitation Of Traffic Signs: It shall be unlawful to maintain
anywhere in the village any sign, signal, marking or device, other than a
traffic sign or signal authorized by the village board or the Illinois state
department of public works and buildings, which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad sign
or signal, in view of any street or highway, and it shall be unlawful to place
or maintain any sign which hides from view any lawful traffic control device.
      2.   Flashing Signs: It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate in view
of any street or highway any flashing or rotating beacon or light. (1978 Code §
9-1-9)
7-1-3: DISREGARDING A TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE:
It shall be a violation of this section for a vehicle to disregard a traffic
control device or a no turn on red signal. For purposes of this section,
"disregarding a traffic control device" shall mean a failure to stop and remain
stopped before an intersection that is controlled by a red signal as provided
for in section 11-306 of the Illinois vehicle code. For purposes of this
section, "disregarding a no turn on red signal" shall mean a failure to stop
and remain stopped, and to refrain from proceeding to turn right at, an
intersection controlled by a sign indicating "no turn on red" or other similar
language or signal, at a red signal as provided for in section 11-306 of the
Illinois vehicle code. Violations of this section captured by an "automated
traffic law enforcement system", as defined in section
7-5-2 of this title, may be prosecuted under the village's administrative
adjudication of vehicle regulation violations program pursuant to chapter 5 of
this title. (Ord. 08-2493, 5-12-2008)
7-1-4: PRIVATE REGULATION OF TRAFFIC AND ON-STREET PARKING ON CERTAIN PRIVATE
STREETS AND ON-STREET PARKING:
Timber Trails Subdivision: The corporate authorities of the Village have
authorized the posting and enforcement of traffic regulation and on-street
parking signs that regulate and control motor vehicle traffic and the use of
on-street motor vehicle parking areas on and within the roadways and on-street
motor vehicle parking areas within the Timber Trails Subdivision, which are
owned and/or controlled by the Timber Trails Development Company, LLC pursuant
to this section.
   A.   Timber Trails Subdivision Traffic And Parking Enforcement Agreement: A
copy of the agreement by and between the Village Of Western Springs and Timber
Trails Development Company, LLC, regarding snowplowing and salting services and
the enforcement of posted motor vehicle traffic and on-street parking
regulation signs for the private roadways in the timber trails subdivision is
incorporated by reference into this Section
7-1-4, is on file with the Village Clerk's Office and is also posted on the
Village's website at www.wsprings.com.
   B.   Traffic And Parking Regulation Inventory: A copy of the traffic and
parking signage and street markings regulation inventory for timber trails
subdivision indicating the location of pavement markings and traffic and
parking regulation signs in regard to the traffic and on-street motor vehicle
parking regulations is incorporated by reference into this Section
7-1-4, is on file with the Village Clerk's Office and is also posted on the
Village's website at www.wsprings.com. A copy of the traffic and parking
signage and street markings regulation inventory for timber trails subdivision
is attached to the traffic and parking regulation enforcement agreement as
Exhibit "A" and made a part thereof.
   C.   Continuation Of Enforcement After Acceptance of Roadways: The traffic
and on-street parking signs and regulations shall automatically continue and be
enforced after acceptance of title and ownership of the private roadways and
on-street parking areas by the Village in accordance with the terms of the 2005
Annexation Agreement for the Timber Trails Subdivision. (Ord. 20-2995, 1-27-
2020)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE LICENSES
SECTION:
7-2-1:    License Required; Eligibility If Debt Owed To Village
7-2-2: License Application; Issuance
7-2-3: License Fees; Terms; Revenues
7-2-4: License Emblems; Motorcycles, Trailers, Semitrailers
7-2-5: License Emblems; Motor Vehicles
7-2-6: Sale Of Vehicles
7-2-7: Loss Of License Emblem
7-2-8: Scope Of Chapter
7-2-9: Antique Vehicle Registration
7-2-10: Failure To Purchase; Delinquency Penalty
7-2-11: Senior Citizen Discount
7-2-12: Penalty
7-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; ELIGIBILITY IF DEBT OWED TO VILLAGE:
   A.   Owner To Be Licensed: It shall be unlawful for any resident of the
Village to own a motor vehicle (registered to a resident at an address in the
Village), or for any person to use a motor vehicle owned by a resident of the
Village, within the Village, unless the owner of such vehicle is licensed for
the current year by the Village to use the same, and said license is displayed
on the windshield of the motor vehicle. If an application for a state vehicle
registration represents, or a state vehicle registration database identifies,
that the owner of the vehicle resides within the corporate boundaries of the
Village, that shall be deemed to be proof of these facts for the purposes of
this Section.
   B.   Vehicle To Be Licensed: It shall also be unlawful for any motor vehicle
which has its situs or base within the Village (a motor vehicle leased by a
resident of the Village and used by the resident and garaged at the resident's
home or a company car, leased or owned by a company with its principal place of
business located outside of the Village, and used by a resident-employee and
garaged within the Village) unless such motor vehicle is licensed by the
Village or by the municipality from which any such vehicle is registered, for
use for the current year and said license is displayed on the windshield of the
motor vehicle. If an application for a state vehicle registration represents or
a state vehicle registration database identifies that the vehicle has a situs
within the corporate boundaries of the Village, that shall be deemed to be
proof of these facts for the purposes of this Section.
   C.   Definitions: For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Motor trucks, tractors, trailers and motor buses,
whether or not actually used for commercial purposes, and all motor vehicles
used for public hire.
   MOTOR BUSES: All vehicles used or designed for use for carriage of more than
seven (7) persons.
   MOTOR TRUCKS: All motor vehicles, including tractor trucks, used or designed
to be used to carry goods.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every self-propelled device in, upon or by which any person
or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a street, except devices
moved by human power or used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
   PERSON: Any individual, entity, firm, proprietorship, partnership,
association, corporation or organization of any kind.
   PLEASURE VEHICLES: All motor vehicles used or designed to be used to carry
not more than seven (7) passengers, and all recreational vehicles, excepting
motor bicycles, tricycles and commercial vehicles.
   RESIDENT OF THE VILLAGE: A corporation or any business entity whatsoever
having its principal place of business in the Village.
   SITUS OR BASE: When applied to a person, the place where that person or
business is principally located and, when applied to a motor vehicle, the place
where that motor vehicle is principally garaged, or from whence it is
principally dispatched, or where its movements usually originate.
   TRAILER: Includes every vehicle without motor power designed to carry
passengers or property and to be drawn by a motor vehicle.
   VEHICLE: Includes every device in, upon or by which any person or property
is or may be drawn upon a street except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   D.   Exemption:
      1.   A license shall not be required and imposed upon any person who
satisfies the following criteria:
         a.   The person is a full time, active member of the United States
armed services;
         b.   The person maintains his or her permanent residence (and
domicile) in a municipality and/or state other than the Village;
         c.   But for his or her service in the United States armed services,
the person would not reside in the Village;
         d.   The person uses his or her residence within the Village as a home
base as a result of his or her present military assignment in the Chicagoland
area, not a domicile; and
         e.   The person must provide proof of full time, active service in one
of the United States armed services.
      2.   A person who is a member of any of the United States military
reserves or the United States National Guard shall not be entitled to this
exemption.
   E.   Eligibility If Debt Owed To Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1 A of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Chapter and
are applicable to the licenses and permits covered by this Chapter. (Ord. 99-
2073, 2-22-1999; amd. Ord. 19-2982, 11-25-2019)
7-2-2: LICENSE APPLICATION; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Contents Of Application: All persons who are required to have a license
for a vehicle shall file with the Finance Department, upon a form provided by
said department, an application setting forth:
      1.   The name, residence and mailing address of the owner.
      2.   A description of the vehicle, including its make, identifying number
and type of body.
      3.   Such other information as may be required. (Ord. 83-1655, 10-24-
1983)
   B.   Issuance Of License: The Finance Department, upon the payment to said
department of a license fee hereinafter provided, shall issue a vehicle
license. Each issued license shall be valid for the time period of May 1 to
April 30 of the next calendar year.
   C.   Denial Of License: The Finance Department may refuse issuance of a
vehicle license if any required fee is not paid or if the department has
reasonable grounds to believe that:
      1.   The application contains a false or fraudulent statement; or
      2.   The application fails to furnish required information or documents
or any additional information that is reasonably required to comply with this
section. (Ord. 83-1655, 10-24-1983; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 19-2982, 11-25-2019)
7-2-3: LICENSE FEES; TERMS; REVENUES:
   A.   Annual License Fees: The license fees to be paid annually to the
Village, effective February 1, 2017, shall be as follows:
Motor vehicle, motor bicycle or motor tricycle, except motor
truck, motor-driven commercial vehicle, and motor vehicle    $50.00
which is used for public hire or is classified as a
recreational vehicle
Recreational vehicles                                        55.00
Motor truck, motor coach, motor bus, and motor vehicle        
classified according to State tags:
Up to 8,000 pounds                                           65.00
8,001 to 12,000 pounds                                       75.00
12,001 to 16,000 pounds                                      85.00
16,001 and over                                              95.00
Antique motor vehicles as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled   40.00
Statutes 5/1-102.1
Senior citizen discount available to qualified residents,
who are 65 years and older, per vehicle sticker per year.       $5.00 discoun t
Proof of age and vehicle registration location required
 
(Ord. 17-2865, 1-23-2017)
   B.   Expiration Of License: All licenses shall expire on April 30 for each
year following the date of issue. Where a license is issued prior to November
1, the full annual fee specified in this chapter shall be paid. Where a license
is issued on or after November 1, the fee to be paid shall be a sum equal to
one-half (1/2) of the annual license fee specified in this chapter. Except for
new residents, a person who has failed to purchase annual vehicle tags and
attempts to do so after November 1 of any year will be required to pay the full
annual fee, plus the late registration fee.
   C.   Administrative Grace Period: The Village Manager shall waive the
license fees specified in this chapter in total for any resident who moves out
of the Village by May 30 of any license year. Any resident seeking such a
waiver must submit a written request addressed to the Village Manager stating
the following:
      1.   The resident's current address in the Village.
      2.   That the resident has sold their property or that their lease on a
property in the Village has expired.
      3.   The date before May 30 on which the resident will move or has moved
from the Village.
   D.   Refunding Of License Fee Due To Move: If a resident moves from the
Village after May 30, but before July 31, a partial refund of the license fees
specified in this chapter equal to one-half (1/2) of the annual license fee is
available if applied for by the resident at the time that the residential water
and sewer utility account is closed. The resident requesting the refund must
have paid the full license fees as specified in this section prior to April 30
and shall not owe any other debts or obligations to the Village in order to
qualify for the refund.
   E.   Use Of Revenues: All revenues derived from such licenses and transfer
fees, after deducting the actual cost of collection and disbursement thereof,
shall be used for purposes of improving, paving, repairing or maintaining the
streets and other public roadways within the Village, and such revenues, but
not to exceed thirty five percent (35%) of such revenues, may also be used for
the payment of salaries and wages of police officers engaged in the duty of
regulating traffic within the Village. The allocation of such revenues shall be
made in the manner provided for in the annual budget or in such other manner as
the Village Board may direct from time to time. (Ord. 15-2818, 11-23-2015)
7-2-4: LICENSE EMBLEMS; MOTORCYCLES, TRAILERS, SEMITRAILERS:
   A.   Issuance Of License Sticker: Upon the issuance of such license for a
motor bicycle, motor tricycle, trailers or semitrailers, the Finance Department
shall deliver to the applicant therefor a decalcomania sticker license emblem
bearing the words "Western Springs", a serial number, the name of the group or
class to which such vehicle belongs, and the year for which such license is
issued. (Ord. 83-1655, 10-24-1983; amd. 1997 Code)
   B.   Placement Of Sticker: The holder of a license for a motor bicycle,
motor tricycle, trailer or semitrailer shall affix such emblem in a conspicuous
position upon the front of such motor bicycle or motor tricycle, free from an
obstruction to the view of such emblem, and upon the rear end of such trailer
or semitrailer, so that the emblem can be easily seen.
   C.   Unlawful Removal Of Sticker: Any person who shall take or remove any
such license tag or emblem from any vehicle without the consent of the owner of
the vehicle shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in accordance with the provisions of this Code for each
offense. Every wrongful removal of a license tag or emblem from any vehicle
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 83-1655, 10-24-1983)
7-2-5: LICENSE EMBLEMS; MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Issuance And Placement Of Emblem: Upon issuance of such license for any
motor vehicle, except a motorcycle, the Finance Department shall deliver to the
licensee a decalcomania sticker license emblem, bearing the numerals
designating the year for which said license is issued, the designation of the
group or class to which such vehicle belongs, a serial number in figures, and
the words "Western Springs". The licensee shall affix the same in the lower
right-hand corner on the inside of the glass part of the windshield of such
motor vehicle not later than one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M.,
April 30 of each year. (Ord. 17-2865, 1-23-2017)
   B.   Emblem Specifications: The Finance Department shall change, annually,
the predominant background color of such sticker emblem. Said sticker emblem
shall be impervious to weather and not removable from the windshield without
destruction or mutilation. (Ord. 83-1655, 10-24-1983; amd. 1997 Code)
   C.   Unlawful Removal Of Emblem: Any person who shall remove, obliterate or
destroy the sticker emblem affixed to any vehicle without the consent of the
owner of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Every such
wrongful removal, obliteration or destruction of such sticker emblem from any
vehicle shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 83-1655, 10-24-1983)
7-2-6: SALE OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Notice Of Sale To Village: Immediately upon the sale of any vehicle
licensed under this chapter, when such sale is made prior to the date of
expiration of such license, the owner shall remove the license emblem from the
vehicle so sold, and within three (3) days after the date of such sale, the
owner shall give to the Finance Department a written notification of such sale
showing the date thereof, the license number of the vehicle so sold and the
name and address or place of business of the purchaser; thereupon such license
emblem shall cease to apply to the vehicle so sold.
   B.   Transfer Of License; Fee:
      1.   Whenever the owner of any vehicle licensed under this chapter,
before the expiration of such license, sells or otherwise disposes of such
vehicle, and acquires another vehicle and desires to transfer the original
license to the newly acquired vehicle and notifies the Finance Department of
the sale as hereinabove provided, such owner shall make application to the
Finance Department for such transfer. The application shall be in compliance
with section
7-2-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Upon surrender of the original license emblem (or upon filing with
the Finance Department satisfactory proof that the emblem has been lost or
destroyed), and upon payment of the appropriate fee, the Finance Department
shall transfer such license to apply to the newly acquired vehicle. (Ord. 83-
1655, 10-24-1983; amd. 1997 Code)
      3.   The transfer fee shall be three dollars ($3.00); provided, that if
the newly acquired vehicle is of a class requiring a higher license fee than
was paid for the original license, the transfer fee shall be the amount of
difference between the fee paid for the original license and the license fee
fixed for the newly acquired vehicle, plus the sum of three dollars ($3.00).
(Ord. 90-1812, 12-17-1990)
7-2-7: LOSS OF LICENSE EMBLEM:
In case of the loss or destruction, total or partial, of any license emblem
issued by the Village and covering any vehicle, the owner of such vehicle,
within three (3) days after learning thereof, shall give the Finance Department
written notification of such loss or destruction. Upon surrender to the Finance
Department of such portion of the license emblem as is sufficient to identify
the same (or, if such surrender is impossible), upon filing with the Finance
Department satisfactory proof of loss, and the payment of a fee of two dollars
($2.00), the Finance Department shall issue to said owner a duplicate of such
license emblem. (Ord. 83-1655, 10-24-1983)
7-2-8: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as in any manner repealing
any provisions of this Code relating to any particular business now being
licensed by the Village in which vehicles are being used upon the streets or
alleys of the Village for the purpose of such business. (Ord. 83-1655, 10-24-
1983)
7-2-9: ANTIQUE VEHICLE REGISTRATION:
The owner of an antique vehicle shall register such vehicle for a fee in an
amount and for a term stated in subsection
7-2-3A of this chapter, if the owner drives or intends on driving the vehicle
on any street or highway, excluding any such vehicle owned by the Village. The
application for registration must be accompanied by an affidavit of the owner
that such vehicle will be driven on the highway only for the purpose of going
to and returning from an antique auto show or an exhibition, or for servicing
or demonstration, and such affidavit shall also affirm that the mechanical
condition, physical condition, brakes, lights, glass and appearance of such
vehicle is the same or as safe as originally equipped. The Village Finance
Department may, at its discretion, prescribe that antique vehicle plates be
issued for an indefinite term, such to correspond to the term of Wheel Tax
licenses issued generally as provided in this title. (Ord. 10-2573, 2-22-2010)
7-2-10: FAILURE TO PURCHASE; DELINQUENCY PENALTY:
   A.   Delinquency Penalties Established: Vehicle license fees not paid on or
before April 30 of each year for vehicles acquired on or before April 15 of
each year shall be deemed delinquent. Said fees shall be increased by a fifty
dollar ($50.00) penalty on May 1 and for the first thirty one (31) calendar day
period of delinquency thereafter, and the penalty shall be increased an
additional fifty dollars ($50.00) on June 1 and for the thirty (30) calendar
day period of delinquency thereafter, and on July 1 and for the period of
delinquency thereafter the penalty shall be increased an additional fifty
dollars ($50.00). The total delinquent penalties assessed during any single
license year extending from May 1 to April 30 shall not exceed one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00), exclusive of the annual license fee. If the annual
license fee and the delinquent penalties are owed, the Village may collect
license fee(s) and delinquent penalties through any administrative or legal
process or may also issue a code citation and seek collection of the general
code penalty under section
1-4-1 for failure to comply with this Chapter.
   B.   Time Limit For Purchasing License: Fifteen (15) days shall be allowed
in which to purchase a license for a vehicle acquired after April 15 before the
delinquency penalty is applied. A current year vehicle license shall not be
sold for a vehicle which should have been properly licensed during the prior
year, except upon the purchase of the prior year's license and payment of all
delinquent fees due therefor.
   C.   Application To New Residents: New residents displaying a current, valid
sticker license emblem from another municipality shall not be required to
purchase a current Village license for the balance of the fiscal year or until
the expiration of the existing license, whichever is sooner.
   D.   Debt Owed To Village: No Village license or permit shall be issued
under this Code to a person who owes any fee, fine, payment, penalty or debt to
the Village, and no such person shall be allowed to register himself or herself
or any family members to participate in any Village programs and activities
(for example, recreation department programs), unless and until the outstanding
fee, fine, payment, penalty or debt is: (a) paid; or (b) being actively
contested in accordance with applicable Village policies or procedures; or (c)
discharged by action and authority of the corporate authorities or the Village
Manager in accordance with applicable Village policies or procedures. (Ord. 15-
2818, 11-23-2015; amd. Ord. 19-2982, 11-25-2019)
7-2-11: SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNT:
Beginning on January 1, 1999, any resident of the Village who is sixty five
(65) years of age or older, shall be entitled to a five dollar ($5.00) discount
off the annual license fee specified in this chapter each year. The resident
must apply for the discount to the Village's Finance Department by producing a
valid Illinois State driver's license proving age. (Ord. 98-2035, 4-27-1998)
7-2-12: PENALTY:
In addition to the delinquency penalties provided above in this Chapter, any
person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day in which a violation occurs
or continues shall constitute a separate offense. A person charged with
violating a provision of this Chapter may be issued a violation notice in lieu
of the Village filing a complaint in court against that person. The violation
notice shall be administratively adjudicated pursuant to Chapter 6 of this
title and the fines and penalties established therein. (Ord. 19-2982, 11-25-
2019)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: No-Parking Places
7-3-2: General Parking Restrictions And Prohibitions
7-3-3: Parking At Curb
7-3-4: Handicapped And Disabled Parking Restrictions
7-3-5: Dead Storage Of Passenger And Commercial Vehicles
7-3-6: Signs Posted
7-3-7: Prima Facie Proof, Violations
7-3-1: NO-PARKING PLACES:
   A.   Prohibited Places: It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stop,
stand or park at any time in any of the following places, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device: (1978 Code §
9-5-1; amd. 1997 Code)
      1.   Within an intersection.
      2.   On a crosswalk.
      3.   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel or the
approach thereto.
      4.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of a point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
      5.   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the
approaching side.
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      7.   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18').
      8.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      9.   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
      10.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing. (1978 Code §
9-5-1)
      11.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any department
of fire and inspectional services station and on the side of the street
opposite the entrance to any such station within seventy five feet (75') of
such entrance when properly signposted. (1978 Code §
9-5-1; amd. 1997 Code)
      12.   On any sidewalk or parkway.
      13.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      14.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      15.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
      16.   On any railroad tracks.
   B.   Moving Of Vehicle: No person other than a police officer shall move a
vehicle not lawfully under his control into any such prohibited area or away
from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (1978 Code §
9-5-1)
7-3-2: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Street Cleaning; Snow Removal:
      1.   Street Cleaning: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any
street or roadway, or portion thereof, in the village at any time when such
street or roadway is being cleaned. Whenever any police officer finds an
unattended motor vehicle violating the terms of this subsection A1, the officer
may provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest garage or place of
safety by having the vehicle towed, at the owner's expense, in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 9 of this title. Temporary signs indicating the date
and time when such cleaning shall be performed and that violators shall be
subject to towing at their expense shall be posted on the streets and roadways
at least twenty four (24) hours before such cleaning work is performed.
      2.   Snow Removal: It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any
street or roadway, or portion thereof, in the village for twelve (12) hours
after a snowfall of two (2) or more inches, as determined by the official
weather reading at Midway airport, has occurred, or until the snow has been
removed, provided that the snowfall has stopped. Whenever any police officer
finds an unattended vehicle violating the terms of this subsection A2, the
officer may provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest garage or
other place of safety by having the vehicle towed, at the owner's expense, in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 9 of this title. The following signs
shall be erected throughout the village at reasonable intervals to notify the
public of the provisions of this subsection A2:
NO PARKING ON ANY STREET OR ROADWAY FOR 12 HOURS AFTER A 2 INCH SNOWFALL, OR
UNTIL THE SNOW HAS BEEN REMOVED PROVIDED SNOWFALL HAS STOPPED.
MOTOR VEHICLES IN VIOLATION WILL BE TOWED AWAY AT THE OWNER'S EXPENSE.
      3.   Penalties: Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions
of this section shall be assessed a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) and may be assessed such other fines, fees or costs, as are
authorized by chapter 9 of this title or state law. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate violation and
shall be punishable as such hereunder. The registered owner of a vehicle towed
for a violation of this section may secure the release of the vehicle by
furnishing evidence of his or her identity and ownership or possessory right to
the vehicle, by signing a receipt for the vehicle and by paying or causing to
be paid to the village and/or the towing and impoundment service operator the
assessed fines and towing and impoundment fees.
   B.   Time Limit Parking: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a
period of time in excess of the amount of time designated by ordinance and so
posted. (1978 Code § 9-5-3)
   C.   Vehicles For Sale; Peddling Merchandise From Vehicle: It shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of displaying it
for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any street from which vehicle merchandise
is peddled or sold. (1978 Code § 9-5-6)
   D.   Loading Zone: It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand
a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the
loading or unloading of passengers in any place designated by the village board
as a loading zone and marked as such, or in any of the following designated
places:
Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the theater
is open. (1978 Code § 9-5-7)
   E.   All Night Parking: No person shall park any vehicle on any streets in
the village between the hours of three o'clock (3:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. of any day, except physicians on emergency calls, or persons granted
permission by the department of law enforcement services. (1978 Code § 9-5-8;
amd. 1997 Code)
   F.   Alleys:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley except for the
purpose of loading and unloading merchandise and then only under such
conditions as to leave available not less than ten feet (10') of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
      2.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in
such a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(1978 Code § 9-5-9)
   G.   Cab And Bus Stands: No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be
parked in any area designated by ordinance as a cab stand, and no vehicle other
than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading zone.
(1978 Code § 9-5-10)
   H.   Parking Motor Vehicles On Private Property:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private
property without the consent of the owner of the property.
      2.   No truck having a gross weight of eight thousand one (8,001) pounds
or more shall be parked on any driveway or open area of any lot in an R-1, R-2,
R-3 or A residential district except for a period no longer than is necessary
for the expeditious loading or unloading of such vehicle. (1978 Code § 9-5-11)
      3.   No truck having a gross weight of eight thousand one (8,001) pounds
or more shall be parked on any street or public way in an R-1, R-2, R-3 or A
residential district for more than four (4) consecutive hours, except in
connection with its use for current work being done on adjoining premises and
provided a permit therefor has been obtained for such extended parking in
advance from the department of law enforcement services. (1978 Code § 9-5-11;
amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 00-2157, 12-18-2000; Ord. 20-2994, 1-27-2020)
7-3-3: PARKING AT CURB:
   A.   Parallel And Angle Parking: No vehicle shall be parked with the left
side of such vehicle next to the curb, except on one- way streets, and it shall
be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street other than parallel with
the curb and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches
(12") of the regularly established curb line; except that upon those streets
that have been marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle
to the curb indicated by such marks. (1978 Code § 9-5-5)
   B.   Occupying More Than One Parking Space 1 : Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no person shall park a vehicle in any space designated by markings
on the pavement in such a manner that any part of such vehicle occupies more
than one space or protrudes beyond the markings designating such space; except
that a vehicle which is of a size too large to be parked within a single
designated space may occupy two (2) or more adjoining spaces. (Ord. 90-1797, 5-
21-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 7-3A-3B of this chapter.
7-3-4: HANDICAPPED AND DISABLED PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle in any area which is restricted to handicapped or disabled parking
unless such vehicle is occupied, when arriving in such area, or is intended to
be occupied when leaving such area, by at least one person who is physically
disabled within the definition of paragraph 5/1-159.1 of the vehicle code of
Illinois 1  or is physically handicapped so as to qualify for a handicapped
parking identification card issued by any township government within Cook
County. If the amount of fine for violating this section shall subsequently be
changed, the village shall change its handicapped parking signs to indicate the
current amount of the fine. (Ord. 06-2382, 2-27-2006)
   B.   Display Of Special Registration License Plate Or Handicapped
Identification Card:
      1.   If any vehicle parked in an area restricted to disabled and
handicapped parking displays special registration license plates issued for the
benefit of disabled veterans or physically handicapped persons by the state, or
any other state or territory of the United States, or displays upon the
driver's visor so as to be visible when the visor is in the down position, a
handicapped parking identification card issued by any township government
within Cook County, it may be presumed by any police officer that the vehicle
is lawfully parked in such restricted area.
      2.   However, such presumption may be overcome by a showing that such
vehicle was neither used to transport a disabled or handicapped person to such
restricted area nor intended to be used to transport such person from such
restricted area, in which case the person parking such vehicle shall be guilty
of a violation of subsection A of this section.
   C.   Improper Use Of Special Registration License Plates Or Handicapped
Parking Identification Card:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to lend to another any special
registration license plate or handicapped parking identification card issued to
him or her if the person desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to
use thereof, nor shall any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same
by one not entitled thereto, nor shall any person display upon any vehicle any
special registration license plate or handicapped parking identification card
not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise lawfully used thereon under this
section.
      2.   No person shall duplicate, alter or attempt to reproduce in any
manner a handicapped parking identification card issued by any township
government within Cook County and use the same or such card which has been so
duplicated, altered or reproduced by another, within the village.
      3.   Violation of this subsection C shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation from a violation of subsection A of this section. (Ord. 80-
1589, 11-17-1980)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of subsection A of this
section or the provisions of subsection C of this section shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 80-1589, 11-17-1980; amd. 1997
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
7-3-5: DEAD STORAGE OF PASSENGER AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
The outside dead storage of any inoperable, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicle,
or any motor vehicle not currently licensed by the state or other state or
country, and not either enclosed in a building or structure, or located on the
sales lot of a licensed automobile dealer, is prohibited in the village. This
section shall not apply to motor vehicles located on the premises of a licensed
garage or service station for repairs, and in the process of being repaired.
(Ord. 88-1762, 11-28-1988)
7-3-6: SIGNS POSTED:
Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (1978 Code § 9-5-12)
7-3-7: PRIMA FACIE PROOF, VIOLATIONS:
The fact that an automobile which is illegally operated or parked is registered
in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person
was in control of the automobile at the time of such violation. (1978 Code § 9-
5-13)
ARTICLE A. PARKING METER ZONES
SECTION:
7-3A-1: Parking Meter Or Meter Box Zones
7-3A-2: Placement Of Meters Or Meter Box
7-3A-3: Parking Meter Or Meter Box Spaces
7-3A-4: Deposit Of Coins Or Currency, Fee And Time Limits
7-3A-5: Prohibited Acts
7-3A-6: Proceeds From Parking Meters And Meter Boxes
7-3A-1: PARKING METER OR METER BOX ZONES:
The parking meter zones shall be: (Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000)
   A.   Burlington Avenue from the intersection of Central Avenue to the west
end of the parking area, approximately located at the centerline extended of
Prospect Avenue; and (Ord. 00-2123, 4-24-2000, eff. 7-1-2000)
   B.   The south side of Hillgrove Avenue from a point three hundred sixty
feet (360') east of Prospect Avenue to Grand Avenue. (Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000)
7-3A-2: PLACEMENT OF METERS OR METER BOX:
Individual parking meters or a centralized meter box shall be installed in the
parking meter zones as established and provided for in this code. Individual
parking meters shall be placed adjacent to the individual parking places
hereinafter described. Each parking meter shall be placed or set in such manner
as to show or display by a signal whether or not the parking space adjacent to
such meter is legally in use. A centralized meter box may not necessarily be
located immediately adjacent to the parking space or spaces regulated, however,
regardless of its location, the meter box will be set in such manner as to show
or display by a signal whether or not the parking spaces regulated are legally
in use. (Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000)
7-3A-3: PARKING METER OR METER BOX SPACES:
   A.   Designation Of Spaces: The municipal services department will designate
the parking spaces for which a parking meter or meter box is to be used by
appropriate markings upon the curb and/or the pavement of the streets. Parking
meter spaces so designated shall be of appropriate length and width so as to be
accessible from the traffic lanes of such street.
   B.   Parking In Designated Spaces 1 : No person shall park a vehicle in any
such designated parking meter or meter box space during the restricted or
regulated time applicable to the parking meter zone in which such meter is
located so that any part of such vehicle occupies more than one such space or
protrudes beyond the markings designating such space; except, that a vehicle
which is of a size too large to be parked within a single designated parking
meter or meter box space shall be permitted to occupy two (2) adjoining parking
meter or meter box spaces as long as payment has been deposited in the parking
meter or meter box for each space so occupied.
   C.   Backing Toward Meter Prohibited: Each vehicle shall be parked facing
the meter for the designated parking space. No vehicle shall be backed into any
parking meter space. (Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  7-3-3B of this chapter.
7-3A-4: DEPOSIT OF COINS OR CURRENCY, FEE AND TIME LIMITS:
   A.   Deposit Of Coins Or Currency, Or Other Accepted Payment Method
Required: No person shall park a vehicle in any parking meter or meter box
space during the restricted and regulated time applicable thereto unless a
payment is made in the coin, coins or currency of the United States Of America
or by any other accepted method of payment (e.g., credit card or debit card) in
the appropriate denomination as designated from time to time by the village
board and as posted by sign, into the meter or meter box.
   B.   Parking In Space With Expired Time Prohibited: No person shall permit
their vehicle to be parked in any such parking meter or meter box space during
the restricted and regulated time applicable to the parking meter zone in which
such meter or meter box is located while the parking meter or meter box for
such space indicates by signal that the lawful parking time in such space has
expired. This provision shall not apply to the act of parking or the necessary
time which is required to deposit immediately thereafter a coin, coins, or
currency in such meter or meter box.
   C.   Fee: Beginning October 1, 2019, the fee for each parking meter space
during the restricted and regulated time applicable thereto shall be four
dollars ($4.00).
   D.   Scope Of Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not relieve
any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive provisions of
this code and the state vehicle code prohibiting or limiting the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Ord. 15-2813, 8-25-2015; amd. Ord. 19-2962, 8-19-2019)
7-3A-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Use Of Slugs: No person shall deposit or attempt to deposit in any
parking meter any slug, button or any other device or substance as substitutes
for coins or currency of the United States Of America.
   B.   Tampering With Meter Or Meter Box: No person shall deface, injure,
tamper with, open or wilfully break, destroy or impair the usefulness of any
parking meter or meter box. (Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000)
7-3A-6: PROCEEDS FROM PARKING METERS AND METER BOXES:
   A.   Application Of Proceeds: The coins and currency required to be
deposited in parking meters as provided in this code are levied and assessed as
fees to cover the regulation and control of parking upon public streets; the
cost of parking meters and meter boxes, the installation, inspection,
supervision, operation, repair and maintenance, control and use of parking
spaces; regulating the parking of vehicles in parking meter zones; and the
costs of acquiring, establishing, improving, maintaining and operating public
off street parking facilities.
   B.   Commuter Parking Or Burlington Northern Fund: The coins and currency
deposited in parking meters and meter boxes shall be collected by the director
of law enforcement services or his designees and shall be deposited by the
village treasurer in the fund known as the commuter parking or Burlington
Northern fund (hereinafter the "fund").
   C.   Disposition Of Funds: The village manager or his designees shall pay
from the fund the cost of any parking meters or meter boxes or other related
appurtenances purchased by the village; expenses incurred for their
installation, inspection, service, supervision, repair and maintenance;
expenses incurred for making collections from such parking meters or meter
boxes; and for the enforcement of the provisions of this code applicable to
parking meter and meter box zones. The net proceeds of the operation of parking
meters and meter boxes in the fund, after the payment of such costs and
expenses, shall be used for parking studies and for the acquisition,
establishment, improvement, maintenance and operation of public off street
parking facilities, or any other legal obligations of the fund, as the village
board shall from time to time direct. (Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000)
ARTICLE B. PERMIT PARKING
SECTION:
7-3B-1: Application Of Provisions
7-3B-2: Parking Permit Locations Designated
7-3B-3: Issuance And Sale Of Permits
7-3B-4: Marking Permit Parking Spaces
7-3B-5: Violations
7-3B-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This article shall apply to all Village designated permit parking locations for
which charges for parking are imposed and collected by means of the issuance
and sale of window sticker or mirror tag permits by the Village. (Ord. 00-2118,
3-20-2000)
7-3B-2: PARKING PERMIT LOCATIONS DESIGNATED:
The following locations are designated as permit parking locations and may be
so designated by the Village Manager or his designees by posting adequate
notice in such locations of said designation:
   A.   That portion of the following nonmetered parking zones:
Burlington Avenue, north side
From Grand Avenue to Central Avenue.
From a point sixty four feet (64') east of Wolf Road to a point one hundred
feet (100') east of Howard Avenue.
Hillgrove Avenue, south side
From Grand Avenue to a point three hundred sixty feet (360') east of Prospect
Avenue.
From Howard Avenue to a point two hundred thirty six feet (236') east.
Waldo Erickson Drive, north side
From the entrance to lower level Springrock Park to a point four hundred eighty
eight feet (488') east.
The Village Manager or his designee may, from time to time, so designate
additional portions of such nonmetered parking zones as permit parking
locations or, alternatively, may designate any portion of permit parking
locations as parking meter or meter box zones by causing parking meters or a
meter box to be placed in service thereon and by posting adequate notice in
such portion of such designation. (Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000; amd. Ord. 00-2123,
4-24-2000, eff. 7-1-2000; Ord. 02-2210, 12-2-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
   B.   Municipally owned and operated nonmetered parking lots as may be, from
time to time, designated by the Village Board, and for which a permit and/or
fee may be required:
Western Springs Grand Avenue Community Center parking lot.
Wolf Road commuter parking lot. (Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000)
7-3B-3: ISSUANCE AND SALE OF PERMITS:
   A.   Number Of Permits Authorized: The Village Manager or his designee shall
cause suitable window sticker or mirror tag permits to be prepared and made
available for issuance and sale. The aggregate number of such permits prepared
and available at any one time shall not exceed one hundred thirty five percent
(135%) of the number of parking spaces designated and available for permit
parking. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of permit window stickers or
mirror tags sold shall not exceed the number of permit spaces designated and
available for such use unless the Village Manager determines on the basis of
surveys of parking space vacancy rates and other relevant criteria that the
sale of an additional amount of parking window stickers or mirror tags is
justified. The Village Manager shall notify the Village Board of Trustees not
less than thirty (30) days before the effective date of his decision to sell
more than one hundred percent (100%) of the spaces available for permit
parking. Permit window stickers or mirror tags shall be issued and sold for six
(6) month periods commencing January 1, and July 1 in each year. Permit window
stickers or mirror tags for different six (6) month periods shall be designated
by different colors or in some other manner as approved by the Village Manager
or his designee.
   B.   Restrictions: Permit window stickers or mirror tags shall be offered
for sale by the Village Manager or his designee during regular business hours
at the Village offices not less than fourteen (14) days prior to each such six
(6) month period and shall be sold subject to the following: (Ord. 02-2210, 12-
2-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
      1.   Permit Renewals: At the discretion of the Village Manager or his
designee, permit renewal notices may be mailed to existing permit holders and
renewal permits may be issued and sold by the Village Manager or his designee
to such permit holders in advance of the time when such permits are made
available for sale at the Village offices.
      2.   Reserved Permits: At the discretion of the Village Manager or his
designee, permit window stickers or mirror tags offered for sale may be
reserved for sale only to persons residing within the corporate limits of the
Village, except the foregoing shall not apply to permit parking spaces
constructed with monies received pursuant to agreements with the commuter rail
division of the regional transportation authority, or the Illinois Department
of Transportation. (Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000)
   C.   Permit Fees: Beginning May 1, 2019, the fee for each window sticker or
mirror tag for each six (6) month period shall be one hundred eighty dollars
($180.00) for residents and two hundred twenty dollars ($220.00) for
nonresidents, except in the Wolf Road commuter parking lot. The fee for each
window sticker or mirror tag for each six (6) month period in the Wolf Road
commuter parking lot shall be two hundred eighty dollars ($280.00) for
residents and three hundred forty dollars ($340.00) for nonresidents. Such fees
for the sale of a new window sticker or mirror tag permit, or the fee for a
replacement window sticker or mirror tag permit, shall be reduced by one-sixth
(1/6) for each full calendar month in each six (6) month period that has
expired prior to the date of sale of such window sticker or mirror tag permit.
No reduction shall be made for periods of less than one month. (Ord. 19-2952,
4-22-2019)
   D.   Refunds: Refunds for permit window stickers or mirror tags will be made
only in the first three (3) months of the permit period. Refunds will be based
on whole months remaining on the permit. (Ord. 02-2210, 12-2-2002, eff. 1-1-
2003)
   E.   Transfer Of Permit: Permit window stickers or mirror tags shall not be
transferable.
   F.   Waiting List: Names of persons unable to obtain permit window stickers
or mirror tags due to unavailability of permit space shall be maintained on
waiting lists for Village residents and nonresidents. Said Village residents or
nonresidents shall be contacted as permit window stickers or mirror tags become
available. (Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000)
7-3B-4: MARKING PERMIT PARKING SPACES:
Suitable markings approved by the Village Manager or his designee shall be
painted or placed upon the pavement, curb, street or other location for the
purpose of designating permit parking spaces. Each vehicle parked in a
designated permit parking area shall be parked wholly within such markings.
(Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000)
7-3B-5: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To park or let stand any vehicle in any designated permit parking area
at any time between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. on any day except Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays, unless such
vehicle shall have attached to the inside surface of the passenger side corner
of the rear window thereof a currently valid window sticker permit issued by
the Village or have attached to the rearview mirror a mirror tag permit issued
by the Village.
   B.   To park or let stand any vehicle across or upon any marking designating
a parking space in a permit area. (Ord. 00-2118, 3-20-2000)
ARTICLE C. BUSINESS DISTRICT PARKING PERMITS
SECTION:
7-3C-1: Application Of Provisions
7-3C-2: Parking Locations Designated
7-3C-3: Issuance And Sale Of Permits
7-3C-4: Violations
7-3C-5: Citation, Payment And Impoundment
7-3C-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This Article shall apply to all Village designated downtown business district
permit parking locations for which charges for seven (7) hour parking permits
are imposed and collected by means of the issuance and sale of an annual window
sticker or mirror tag permits by the Department of Law Enforcement Services.
(Ord. 98-2041, 6-22-1998)
7-3C-2: PARKING LOCATIONS DESIGNATED:
The following locations are designated as business district permit parking
locations and shall be designated by posting the appropriate signs in such
locations of said designation:
   A.   HILLGROVE AVENUE - SOUTH SIDE
From Lawn Avenue to Wolf Road (800 block of Hillgrove Avenue)
   B.   WALNUT STREET - SOUTH SIDE
From Grand Avenue to Lawn Avenue (900 block of Walnut Street)
The Department of Public Works, subject to the prior approval of the President
and Board of Trustees, is hereby authorized to erect the appropriate signs
designating the business district permit parking locations. (Ord. 98-2041, 6-
22-1998)
7-3C-3: ISSUANCE AND SALE OF PERMITS:
   A.   Number Of Permits Authorized: The Director of the Department of Law
Enforcement Services shall cause suitable annual business district window
sticker or mirror tag permits to be prepared and made available for issuance
and sale to the owners of businesses located within the downtown business
district area of the Village. The downtown business district area of the
Village is approximately bounded by 42nd Street and Chestnut Street to the
north, Howard Avenue to the east, Elm Street and 45th Street to the south and
Central Avenue to the west. The window sticker or mirror tag permits shall be
issued and sold on an annual basis and shall pertain to the period of time
starting January 1 and ending December 31 of each year.
   B.   Restrictions: Annual window sticker or mirror tag permits shall be
offered for sale by the Director of the Department of Law Enforcement Services
or his designated representative during regular business hours at the Village
offices not less than fourteen (14) days prior to January 1 each year and shall
be sold subject to the following:
      1.   Application: On an annual basis each owner of a business located and
operating in the downtown business district area of the Village may apply for
business district parking permits for use by the employees of the owner's
business on a form provided by the Department of Law Enforcement Services.
      2.   Permit Criteria: Issuance and sale of a business district parking
permit by the Director of Law Enforcement Services is subject to the following:
         a.   Proof that the applicant is the current business owner of a
business located in the downtown business district area;
         b.   The business owner has a current Village business license;
         c.   The business owner is not indebted to the Village; and
         d.   Payment of the required permit fee.
      3.   Seven Hour Parking: Those persons who park a motor vehicle
displaying a current, valid business district parking permit in the designated
downtown business district permit parking areas may remain parked at such
location for a seven (7) consecutive hour period (9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.)
without violating the posted hourly parking restrictions.
   C.   Permit Fees: The fee for each annual business district window sticker
or mirror tag permit shall be one dollar ($1.00).
   D.   Refunds: No refunds shall be made for business district window sticker
or mirror tag permits.
   E.   Transfer Of Permit: Business district window sticker or mirror tag
permits shall not be transferable. (Ord. 98-2041, 6-22-1998)
7-3C-4: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To park or let stand any vehicle in any designated downtown business
district permit parking area in violation of the posted hourly parking
restrictions, unless such vehicle shall have attached to the inside surface of
the passenger side corner of the rear window thereof a current, valid business
district window sticker permit issued by the Department of Law Enforcement
Services or have attached to the rear view mirror a current, valid business
district mirror tag permit issued by the Department of Law Enforcement Services
or unless otherwise permitted by law. (Ord. 98-2041, 6-22-1998)
7-3C-5: CITATION, PAYMENT AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Citation: Any person charged with a violation of any of the provisions
of this Article may settle such charge by paying to the Village, within seven
(7) days after the date of the Department of Law Enforcement Services citation
alleging such violation, the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each
offense so charged.
   B.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of a violation of any provision of
this Article shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such
violation.
   C.   Impoundment: Any vehicle parked in violation of the provisions of this
Article may be towed away by or at the order of the Department of Law
Enforcement Services and impounded until payment in full of all reasonable
costs and expenses incurred in connection with such towing and storage of such
vehicle, as well as any fines authorized by this Article. (Ord. 98-2041, 6-22-
1998)
ARTICLE D. ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS
SECTION:
7-3D-1: Application Of Provisions
7-3D-2: Definitions
7-3D-3: Use Of Electric Vehicle Parking Spaces In Public Right-Of-Way; Charging
7-3D-4: Permit Approval; Permitted Locations
7-3D-5: Signage
7-3D-6: Penalties
7-3D-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The general purposes of this chapter are: (1) to facilitate and encourage the
use of electric vehicle charging stations by those who own and operate electric
vehicles; and (2) to establish regulations concerning Village-owned electric
vehicle charging stations on public property. (Ord. 20-3004, 5-18-2020)
7-3D-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of interpretation and enforcement of this article, the
following terms shall have the meanings stated in this section. Any term not
defined in this article shall have the meaning ascribed to it in other sections
of this code or ordinances of the Village, and, if not defined therein, such
term shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq. or other applicable Illinois law.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE: Any vehicle that is licensed and registered on public and
private highways, roads, and streets that contains original, stock equipment
from the vehicle manufacturer to accept charging from an electric vehicle
charging station and that operates, either partially or exclusively, on
electrical energy from the grid, or an off-board source, that is stored on-
board via a battery for motive purpose. "Electric vehicle" includes: (1) a
battery powered electric vehicle operated solely by electricity; and (2) a
plug-in hybrid electric vehicle that operates on electricity and gasoline and
has a battery that can be recharged from an external source.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION: An electrical component assembly or cluster
of component assemblies designed specifically to charge batteries located
within electric vehicles. The charging station may also contain appurtenances
for the purposes of customer payment.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE PARKING SPACE: Any marked parking space that identifies the
use to be exclusively for the parking of an electric vehicle.
NON-ELECTRIC VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle that does not meet the definition of
electric vehicle. (Ord. 20-3004, 5-18-2020)
7-3D-3: USE OF ELECTRIC VEHICLE PARKING SPACES IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY;
CHARGING:
Electric vehicle charging stations and electric vehicle parking spaces are
reserved for charging electric vehicles only.
   A.   Village-Owned Electric Vehicle Charging Stations: The use of a Village-
owned electric vehicle charging station and adjacent electric vehicle parking
space(s) shall be limited to electric vehicles for no more than three (3) hours
of continuous charging per day. For purposes of this subsection, "charging"
means that an electric vehicle is connected to an electric vehicle charging
station.
   B.   Usage Fee: There shall be no fee or charge for the first three (3)
hours of charging per day after connecting to a Village-owned electric vehicle
charging station. After the three (3) hour period, the usage fee for electric
vehicle charging shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) per sixty (60) minute
interval.
   C.   Unlawful Parking: No person shall park any non-electric vehicle in an
electric vehicle parking space. A non-electric vehicle parked in an electric
vehicle parking space is subject to a fine and tow, per chapter 9 (Abandoned,
Inoperable, Hazardous and Unlawful Vehicles) of this title.
   D.   Electric Vehicle Parking Generally: Electric vehicles may park in any
space designated for public parking, subject to the same restrictions that
apply to non-electric vehicles.
   E.   Disclaimer: The Village of Western Springs is not liable or responsible
for the failure to operate or for any damage caused by an electrical vehicle
charging station. (Ord. 20-3004, 5-18-2020)
7-3D-4: PERMIT APPROVAL; PERMITTED LOCATIONS:
   A.   Public Right-Of-Way Or Other Public Property: The location of electric
vehicle charging stations and electric vehicle parking spaces within any public
right-of-way or on any public property are subject to approval by the corporate
authorities after submittal of a permit application (on Village form),
including site design plan, electrical plan, signage plan, and electric vehicle
charging station equipment and specifications plan, to and review and approval
by the Director of Community Development and/or the Director of Municipal
Services. For non-Village-owned electric vehicle charging stations to service
electric vehicle parking spaces within any public right-of-way, such use shall
require approval of a license agreement (on the Village form) by the corporate
authorities, in their sole discretion. The following locations of electric
vehicle charging stations and electric vehicle parking spaces are authorized:
      1.   One (1) electric vehicle charging station and two (2) electric
vehicle parking spaces located at: north side of Burlington Avenue immediately
west of Grand Avenue.
   B.   Private Property For Commercial Use Or General Public Use: The location
of electric vehicle charging stations and electric vehicle parking spaces on
any private property for commercial use or made available for use by the
general public are subject to approval by the corporate authorities after
submittal of a permit application (on Village form), including site design
plan, electrical plan, signage plan, and electric vehicle charging station
equipment and specifications plan, to and review and approval by the Director
of Community Development and/or the Village Engineer. Electric vehicle charging
stations and electric vehicle parking spaces permitted under this subsection
are allowed in all zoning districts, except in the A - Single-Family Residence
District, the R1 - Single-Family Residence District, the R2 - Single-Family
Residence District, the R2 - Single-Family Residence-PUD District, the RB -
Residential buffer district and the SFA - Single-Family Attached Residence
District such electric vehicle charging stations and electric vehicle parking
spaces shall be used only by (a) property owners and occupants of single-family
residences, (b) property owners, occupants and tenants of any multi-family
buildings and (c) patrons of any group assembly buildings (e.g., community
pool, theatre and places of worship).
      1.   The following locations of electric vehicle charging stations and
electric vehicle parking spaces are authorized: None.
   C.   Private Property For Private Use: The location of an electric vehicle
charging station and electric vehicle parking spaces on any private property
used for private, non-commercial purposes or not made available to the general
public are subject to approval by the Director of Community Development after
submittal of a permit application (on Village form), including site design
plan, electrical plan, signage plan, and electric vehicle charging station
equipment and specifications plan, to and review and approval by the Director
of Community Development.
   D.   Compliance With Other Regulations: Approval of such electric charging
stations and electric vehicle parking spaces shall be subject to all applicable
National and State regulations as well as any local amendments adopted by the
corporate authorities.
   E.   Removal: The corporate authorities may authorize by ordinance the
removal of any designated electric vehicle parking space from Village-owned
property if, in their sole discretion, the designated electric vehicle parking
space creates any parking issues within the Village. The Director of Community
Development, or his or her designee, may require the removal of any designated
electric vehicle parking space from privately-owned property under subsection B
above if, in his or her sole discretion, said designated electric vehicle
parking spaces create any parking issues within the Village. (Ord. 20-3004, 5-
18-2020)
7-3D-5: SIGNAGE:
Electric vehicle parking spaces shall be posted with signage indicating the
space is to be used exclusively for electric vehicle charging purposes and that
violators are subject to a fine and tow of the offending vehicle.
   A.   Electric vehicle parking spaces shall be posted with signage indicating
the maintenance number for the equipment.
   B.   Electric vehicle parking spaces shall be posted with the following
information: (a) voltage and amperage levels; (b) time limitation; (c) usage
fee; (d) user instructions related to the electrical vehicle charging station;
(e) disclaimer that the City of Western Springs is not liable or responsible
for the failure to operate or for any damage caused by an electrical vehicle
charging station. (Ord. 20-3004, 5-18-2020)
7-3D-6: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this article shall
be assessed a fine of not less than thirty five dollars ($35.00) and not to
exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and may be assessed such other
fines, fees or costs, as are authorized by chapter 9 (Abandoned, Inoperable,
Hazardous and Unlawful Vehicles) of this title or state law. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
violation and shall be punishable as such hereunder. The registered owner of a
vehicle towed for a violation of this section may secure the release of the
vehicle by furnishing evidence of his or her identity and ownership or
possessory right to the vehicle, by signing a receipt for the vehicle and by
paying or causing to be paid to the Village and/or the towing and impoundment
service operator the assessed fines and towing and impoundment fees. (Ord. 20-
3004, 5-18-2020)
CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Schedule I; One-Way Streets
7-4-2: Schedule II; Through Streets
7-4-3: Schedule III; Parking Limitations And Prohibitions
7-4-4: Schedule IV; Stop Streets
7-4-5: Schedule V; Yield Right-Of-Way
7-4-6: Schedule VI; Turning Restrictions
7-4-7: Schedule VII; No Through Trucks
7-4-8: Speed Restrictions
7-4-9: Loading Zones
7-4-10: Crosswalks
7-4-1: SCHEDULE I; ONE-WAY STREETS:
In accordance with section
7-1-1 of this title and when posted by sign, traffic shall move only in the
direction indicated upon the following streets: (1978 Code §
9-10-1; amd. 1997 Code)
 
Name Of Street                                              Direction Of Travel
Chestnut from Woodland to Central                           West
Howard Avenue from the north line of Hillgrove Avenue to
the south line of 43rd Street, temporary one-way traffic on North
school days only during the periods of early morning drop
off and midafternoon pick up of students
Post Office Drive from Wolf Road to Lawn Avenue             East
Woodland Avenue from Maple to Hillgrove                     South
 
(1978 Code § 9-10-1; amd. Ord. 11-2648, 9-26-2011)
7-4-2: SCHEDULE II; THROUGH STREETS:
In accordance with the provisions of section
7-1-1 of this title and when posted by signs, drivers of vehicles shall stop or
yield at every intersection before entering any of the following streets:
Burlington Avenue from its intersection at Gilbert Avenue to Central Avenue.
Central Avenue from its intersection with Ogden Avenue to its intersection with
Hillgrove Avenue.
Ellington Avenue from its intersection at Ogden Avenue to its intersection with
Hillgrove Avenue.
Gilbert Avenue.
Hampton Avenue from its intersection with Ogden Avenue to its intersection with
Hillgrove Avenue.
Hillgrove Avenue from its intersection at Gilbert Avenue to the western limits.
Ogden Avenue.
Walnut Street from Wolf Road to western limits.
Wolf Road.
47th Street.
51st Street from its intersection at Gilbert Avenue to its intersection at Fair
Elms Avenue.
55th Street.
(1997 Code)
7-4-3: SCHEDULE III; PARKING LIMITATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
A.   Parking Prohibited On Certain Streets: Parking is prohibited at all times
on certain streets in accordance with chapter 3 of this title and when posted
by sign.
B.   Parking Restrictions And Prohibitions Generally: On certain streets where
parking is prohibited during certain hours, or a limited parking time is
posted, no person shall park a vehicle within those designated hours, nor for a
period of time longer than indicated, except Sundays and holidays, unless
prohibition or restriction signs specifically include Sundays and holidays.
C.   Additional Parking Prohibitions And Limitations: Other prohibitions and
limitations are to be as follows when posted by sign:
BURLINGTON AVENUE - North side
No parking at any time from a point 300 feet west of water tank to a point 250
feet west of Central Avenue.
Meter parking from a point 250 feet west of Central Avenue to Grand Avenue.
Burlington Avenue - North side (cont.)
2 hour parking from Grand Avenue to Wolf Road.
No parking at any time from Wolf Road to a point 64 feet east of sidewalk at
curb.
Meter parking from a point 125 feet east of sidewalk at Wolf Road to a
northerly projection of the west curb line of Howard Avenue.
No parking at any time from the west curb line of Clausen Avenue to Gilbert
Avenue (except 15 minute parking in an area beginning approximately 225 feet
west of Gilbert and extending 90 feet east).
No parking 6:00 A.M. to 8:45 A.M. Monday through Friday from Grand Avenue to a
point 150 feet east.
4 hour parking from 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Gilbert
Avenue to Clausen Avenue.
2 hour parking from 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. in the 800 block and 900 block.
BURLINGTON AVENUE - South side
2 hour parking Woodland Avenue to Grand Avenue.
4 hour parking Central Avenue to Woodland Avenue.
No parking at any time from Central Avenue 600 feet west to a point.
No parking at any time from the easterly right-of-way line of Waldo Erickson
Memorial Drive 300 feet east to a point.
No parking at any time from 50 feet west of Wolf Road to Johnson Avenue.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Johnson Avenue to Harvey Avenue.
2 hour parking from 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. in the 800 block and 900 block
(except 30 minute parking 8:30 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. Monday through Friday in one
diagonal marked parking spot adjacent to 901 Burlington Avenue, one diagonal
marked parking spot adjacent to 835 Burlington Avenue, and one diagonal marked
parking spot adjacent to 825 Burlington Avenue).
CAROLINE AVENUE - East side
No parking 5:00 P.M. to 6:00 P.M. Saturday and Sunday from Rugeley Road to a
point 750 feet north (Courtland Circle).
CAROLINE AVENUE - West side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Courtland Circle
to 51st Street.
No parking at any time from 53rd Street to a point 850 feet north.
CENTRAL AVENUE - East side
No parking at any time from Maple Street to Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking at any time from the north right-of-way line of 47th Street to the
South right-of-way line of Elm Street.
No parking at any time from the north right-of-way line of Elm Street to a
point 402.00 feet north of the north right-of-way line of Elm Street.
4 hour parking from 9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. on Mondays through Fridays from the
south right-of-way line of Burlington Avenue to a point 110.00 feet south of
the south right-of-way line of Burlington Avenue.
4 hour parking from Monday through Friday from 47th Street to 49th Street.
No parking, stopping or standing from 8:15 A.M. to 8:45 A.M. and 3:00 P.M. to
4:00 P.M. from 50th Street to 51st Street on school days.
CENTRAL AVENUE - West side
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Maple Street
to Chestnut Street.
4 hour parking from Maple Street to a point 270 feet north of the northerly
right-of-way line of Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking at any time from a point 150 feet north of Hillgrove Avenue to
Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Burlington Avenue
to 47th Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from a point 60 feet
south of Elm Street to 47th Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from 47th Street to
49th Street.
Standing only from 8:15 A.M. to 8:45 A.M. and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00 P.M. from 50th
Street to 51st Street, permit parking only.
CHESTNUT STREET - North side
No parking at any time from Grove Avenue to Lawn Avenue.
30 minute parking from Wolf Road to a point 210 feet west during library hours.
No parking from 8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. on school days on the north side of
Chestnut Street between the west right- of-way line of Grove Avenue and the
east right-of-way line of Forest Avenue.
CHESTNUT STREET - South side
30 minute parking from Lawn Avenue to Wolf Road during library hours.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Woodland
Avenue to Lawn Avenue.
CLAUSEN AVENUE - East side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Burlington Avenue to 46th Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from 42nd Street to
Hillgrove Avenue.
CLAUSEN AVENUE - West side
4 hour parking 9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Burlington
Avenue to 46th Street.
No parking from Hillgrove Avenue to a point 190 feet north.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from 42nd Street to
a point 190 feet north of Hillgrove Avenue.
COURTLAND CIRCLE - North side
No parking 9:00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M. Sunday from Wolf Road to Caroline Avenue.
COURTLAND CIRCLE - South side
No parking on school days 8:00 A.M. to 3:00 P.M. from Wolf Road to Caroline
Avenue.
ELLINGTON AVENUE - East side
No parking 6:00 A.M. to 8:15 A.M. Monday through Friday from Hillgrove to 42nd
Street.
No parking at any time from 42nd Street to the cul-de-sac.
ELLINGTON AVENUE - West side
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from 42nd Street to
Hillgrove Avenue.
ELM STREET - North side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Central Avenue to
Lawn Avenue.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Lawn Avenue to
Wolf Road.
ELM STREET - South side
No parking at any time from Central Avenue to Wolf Road.
FAIR ELMS AVENUE - East side
No parking between 3:00 P.M. and 3:45 P.M. on school days between a point 150
feet north of the north right-of-way line of 51st Street to a point 215 feet
north of the north right-of-way line of 51st Street.
FAIR ELMS AVENUE - West side
No parking at any time from the north property line of 4938 Fair Elms Avenue to
the north right-of-way line of 51st Street.
FOREST AVENUE - East side - Maple Street to Oak Street
No parking, stopping or standing from 8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M. and 3:00 P.M. to
4:00 P.M., on school days.
FOREST AVENUE - West side - Maple Street to Oak Street
No parking, stopping or standing from 8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M. and 3:00 P.M. to
4:00 P.M., on school days (Maple Street north to the first school sidewalk).
Standing only from 8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M. and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00 P.M. (from the
first school sidewalk north to the second driveway).
Parking on school days only from 8:30 A.M. to 9:30 A.M. and 3:00 P.M. to 4:00
P.M. (from the second driveway north to Oak Street).
Other restrictions will be posted on sandwich boards daily to direct the flow
of traffic.
FRANKLIN AVENUE - East side
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from 43rd Street to
Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Burlington Avenue to 47th Street.
FRANKLIN AVENUE - West side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 12:00 noon Sunday from 42nd Street to Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from 43rd Street to
Hillgrove Avenue.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Burlington
Avenue to 47th Street.
No parking on the 4700 block of Franklin Avenue.
GARDEN AVENUE - West side
No parking from Maple Street to Walnut Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. opposite Northwest Park.
GILBERT AVENUE - West side
No parking at any time from Ogden Avenue to 39th Street.
No parking at any time from 42nd Street to Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking at any time from 47th Street south to village limits.
GRAND AVENUE - East side
No parking at any time from Maple Street to Walnut Street.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Walnut Street
to Hillgrove.
15 minute parking from Burlington Avenue to a point 100 feet south.
2 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from a point 100
feet south of Burlington Avenue to Elm Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Elm Street to 47th Street.
4 hour parking Monday through Friday from 47th Street to 49th Street.
No parking along the east side of Grand Avenue from the south right of way line
of 55th Street to the north right of way line of Longmeadow Lane.
GRAND AVENUE - West side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Maple Street to
Chestnut Street.
No parking at any time from a point 100 feet north of Hillgrove Avenue to
Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking at any time from Burlington Avenue to Elm Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Elm Street to
47th Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Chestnut Street
to Walnut Street.
2 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Walnut Street
to a point 100 feet north of Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from 47th Street to
49th Street.
No parking along the west side of Grand Avenue from the south right of way line
of 55th Street to the north right of way line of Longmeadow Lane.
HAMPTON AVENUE - East side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Walker Street to Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking from Chestnut Street to Walnut Street.
No parking 4:00 P.M. to 6:00 P.M. Monday through Friday.
HAMPTON AVENUE - West side
No parking at any time from Sunset Terrace to Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. adjacent to Northwest Park.
HARVEY AVENUE - East side
No parking from 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. on Saturdays only, adjacent to Harvey
Park.
No parking Monday through Friday 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Burlington Avenue
to 46th Street.
No parking Monday through Friday 5:00 P.M. to 8:00 P.M. adjacent to Harvey
Park.
No parking Monday through Friday 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Hillgrove Avenue
to 40th Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday to Friday, signs on the east side of
Harvey Avenue between Ogden Avenue and 40th Street.
HARVEY AVENUE - West side
No parking from Ogden Avenue to 39th Street.
4 hour parking Monday through Friday from Burlington Avenue to 46th Street.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Hillgrove
Avenue to 40th Street.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday to Friday, signs on the west side
of Harvey Avenue between Ogden Avenue and 40th Street.
HILLGROVE AVENUE - North side
No parking at any time from a point 300 feet west of Hampton Avenue to a point
50 feet east of Woodland Avenue.
2 hour parking from Woodland Avenue to a point 175 feet east.
No parking at any time from a point 175 feet east of Woodland Avenue to Grand
Avenue.
4 hour parking 9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
2 hour parking from Lawn Avenue to Howard Avenue (except 15 minute parking) 6:
00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. from Wolf Road east to private driveway.
No parking from Johnson Avenue to a point 65 feet east.
4 hour parking from 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Gilbert
Avenue to Clausen Avenue.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. on school days from Howard Avenue east to the
fire hydrant (7 spaces).
15 minute parking 8:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. Monday through Friday from a point on
Hillgrove Avenue 150 feet west of the centerline of Wolf Road to Wolf Road.
2 hour parking from 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. in the 800 block and 900 block.
HILLGROVE AVENUE - South side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from a point 400 feet west of Hampton Avenue
to a point 360 feet east of the centerline of Prospect Avenue.
Meter parking from a point 360 feet east of the centerline of Prospect Avenue
to Grand Avenue.
2 hour parking 9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. from Wolf Road to Johnson Avenue.
4 hour parking 9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. from Johnson Avenue to Howard Avenue.
No parking at any time from Howard Avenue to Gilbert Avenue.
4 hour parking 9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday for the south side
of the 800 block of Hillgrove Avenue (from Lawn Avenue to Wolf Road), except
those vehicles displaying a current, valid Business District parking permit
approved and issued by the Department of Law Enforcement Services.
2 hour parking 9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Wolf Road to
Lawn Avenue.
2 hour parking from 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. in the 800 block and 900 block.
HOWARD AVENUE - East side
No parking on school days 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. from 43rd Street to Hillgrove
Avenue.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Burlington Avenue to 46th Street.
No parking from the north edge of the driveway at 4745 Howard Avenue to a point
50 feet north.
No stopping, standing, or parking from the south line of 48th Street extending
north for a distance of 100 feet on the east side of Howard Avenue.
No parking between signs from the entrance of the Field Park School Parking Lot
to the 43rd Street Crosswalk.
HOWARD AVENUE - West side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 12:00 noon Sunday from 42nd Street to 43rd Street.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from 43rd Street to
46th Street.
No parking on the 4700 block of Howard Avenue.
No parking from the northwest corner of Howard Avenue at 48th Street to a point
north 90 feet.
No parking at any time adjacent to Clark Park.
No parking this side Sunday from 43rd Street to Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking on school days 7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 2:00 P.M. to 4:00 P.M.
from 43rd Street to Hillgrove Avenue.
JOHNSON AVENUE - East side
No parking this side from a point 100 feet north of Hillgrove Avenue to 46th
Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from 46th Street to
47th Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M. Sunday from 51st Street south to cul-de-sac.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from 43rd Street to a
point 100 feet north of Hillgrove Avenue.
"No parking - loading zone" from Hillgrove Avenue to a point 140 feet north.
No parking 7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 2:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M. Monday through
Friday from 42nd Street to 43rd Street.
JOHNSON AVENUE - West side
No parking at any time from 42nd Street south to entrance to Village parking
lot.
2 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from entrance to
Village parking lot to Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking from Burlington Avenue south to north entrance to Tischler's parking
lot.
No parking at any time in cul-de-sac south of 51st Street.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from the north
entrance of Tischler's parking lot to 47th Street.
No parking from 42nd Street to a point 100 feet south.
No parking at any time from 43rd Street to a point 100 feet north.
No parking on school days from 42nd Street north to 41st Street during the
hours of 7:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
LAWN AVENUE - East side
No parking at any time from Maple Street to a point 200 feet north on Hillgrove
Avenue.
2 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. from a point 200 feet north of Hillgrove
Avenue to Hillgrove Avenue.
15 minute parking 8:30 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Post Office
Drive to Elm Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Elm Street to
47th Street.
2 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. from Burlington Avenue to Post Office
Drive.
4 hour parking Monday through Friday from 47th Street to 49th Street.
LAWN AVENUE - West side
No parking 6:00 A.M. to 8:15 A.M. Monday through Friday from Maple Street to
Chestnut Street.
2 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. from a point 120 feet north of the
sidewalk intersection at Walnut Street to a point 40 feet north of said
intersection.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Elm Street to
47th Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Chestnut Street
to a point 120 feet north of the sidewalk intersection at Walnut Street.
2 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Burlington
Avenue to Elm Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from 47th Street to
49th Street.
LINDEN AVENUE - East side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from 42nd Street to
Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking at any time from the south right-of-way line of 39th Street to the
north right- of-way line of 40th Street.
LINDEN AVENUE - West side
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from 42nd Street to
Hillgrove Avenue.
MAPLE STREET - North side
No parking on school days from Hampton Avenue to Forest Avenue.
OAK STREET - North side
No parking from Central Avenue to Wolf Road.
OAK STREET - South side
No parking from Wolf Road to a point 150 feet west.
OGDEN AVENUE - North side
No parking at any time from tollway to Gilbert Avenue.
OGDEN AVENUE - South side
No parking at any time from tollway to Gilbert Avenue.
POST OFFICE DRIVE
No parking, stopping, standing at any time, either side.
PROSPECT AVENUE - East side
No parking 6:00 A.M. to 8:45 A.M. Monday through Friday from Chestnut Street to
Hillgrove Avenue.
PROSPECT AVENUE - West side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Reid Street to Walker Street.
No parking at any time from Walker Street to Hillgrove Avenue.
No parking from Walnut Street to a point 100 feet north.
REID STREET - South side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Hampton Avenue to Prospect Avenue.
ROSE AVENUE - East side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. on the east side of Rose Avenue north of 39th
Street.
ROSE AVENUE - West side
No parking from Oak Street to Walnut Street.
No parking from the beginning of the east side of the curved radius of the cul-
de-sac all along the west side of Rose Avenue to its intersection at Oak
Street.
WALKER STREET - North side
No parking at any time from a point 175 feet west of Hampton Avenue east to
Prospect Avenue.
WALKER STREET - South side
No parking at any time from a point 300 feet west of Hampton Avenue to Prospect
Avenue.
WALNUT STREET - North side
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Lawn Avenue to
Grand Avenue.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Grand Avenue to
Prospect Avenue.
WALNUT STREET - South side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Prospect Avenue to Central Avenue.
No parking this side from Central Avenue to Grand Avenue.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Grand Avenue
to Lawn Avenue, except those vehicles displaying a current, valid business
district parking permit approved and issued by the department of law
enforcement services.
WESTERN AVENUE - West side
No parking at any time from Walnut Street to a point 400 feet north.
WESTERN SPRINGS GRAND AVENUE COMMUNITY CENTER PARKING LOT
4 hour parking 9:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday, unless otherwise
posted.
10 minute parking - where posted.
Reserved, library staff - where posted.
No parking any time 3:00 A.M. to 5:00 A.M.
WOLF ROAD - West side
No parking at any time from Ogden Avenue to the south village limits.
WOLF ROAD - East side
No parking at any time from Ogden Avenue to the south village limits.
WOODLAND AVENUE - West side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Chestnut Street
to Walnut Street.
4 hour parking from 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Walnut
Street to 200 feet north of Hillgrove Avenue.
2 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 6:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Burlington
Avenue to Elm Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Elm Street to 47th Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from 47th Street to
49th Street.
WOODLAND AVENUE - East side
No parking at any time from Ogden Avenue to Hillgrove Avenue.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Burlington
Avenue to Elm Street.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Elm Street to
47th Street.
4 hour parking Monday through Friday from 47th Street to 49th Street.
39th STREET - North side
No parking at any time from Clausen Avenue to approximately 100 feet west of
Harvey Avenue.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. between Hampton and Garden.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday to Friday, signs on the north side
of 39th Street between Gilbert Avenue and Linden Avenue.
39TH STREET - South side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday to Friday, signs on the south side of
39th Street between Gilbert Avenue and Linden Avenue.
40TH STREET - North side
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday to Friday, signs on the north side
of 40th Street between Gilbert Avenue and Linden Avenue.
40TH STREET - South side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday to Friday, signs on the south side of
40th Street between Gilbert Avenue and Linden Avenue.
41st STREET - North side
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Gilbert Avenue
to Harvey Avenue.
41st STREET - South side
No parking Monday through Friday 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Gilbert Avenue to
Harvey Avenue.
42nd STREET - North side
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Gilbert Avenue
to Ellington Avenue.
42nd STREET - South side
No parking at any time from Wolf Road to a point 150 feet east.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Gilbert Avenue to
Ellington Avenue.
43rd STREET - North side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Johnson Avenue to
Franklin Avenue.
Exclusive permit parking Monday through Friday from 7:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.,
from Wolf Road to Johnson Avenue - permit approved by the Department of Law
Enforcement Services.
No stopping/standing/parking on school days between the hours of 8:00 A.M. to
4:00 P.M. on the north side of 43rd Street between the east line of Franklin
Avenue and the west line of Howard Avenue.
No parking on the north side of 43rd Street from the west line of Howard Avenue
to a point 20.00 feet west of the west line of Howard Avenue.
43rd STREET - South side
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Wolf Road to
Franklin Avenue.
45th STREET - North side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Wolf Road to
Clausen Avenue.
4 hour parking Monday through Friday from Gilbert Avenue to Clausen Avenue.
45th STREET - South side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. from Franklin Avenue to Clausen Avenue.
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Wolf Road to
Franklin Avenue.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Gilbert Avenue to
Clausen Avenue.
46th STREET - North side
4 hour parking 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday from Wolf Road to
Howard Avenue.
46th STREET - South side
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Wolf Road to
Howard Avenue.
No parking at any time adjacent to Clark Park.
47th STREET - North side
No parking at any time from tollway to Gilbert Avenue.
47th STREET - South side
No parking at any time from tollway to Gilbert Avenue.
48th STREET - North side
No parking from west limit of Garden Market property to Gilbert Avenue.
No parking between Johnson Avenue and Howard Avenue.
4 hour parking Monday through Friday from Wolf Road to Fair Elms Avenue.
48th STREET - South side
No stopping, standing, or parking from the east line of Howard Avenue to a
point 100 feet west of the east line of Howard Avenue.
No parking from the south corner of the driveway of 4745 Howard Avenue to a
point 80 feet west of the driveway.
No parking 8:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Monday through Friday from Wolf Road to Fair
Elms Avenue.
51st STREET - North side
No parking on school days 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. from Wolf Road to Caroline
Avenue.
No parking at any time from Caroline Avenue to Gilbert Avenue.
51st STREET - South side
No parking from Wolf Road to Caroline Avenue.
No parking, stopping or standing from 8:15 A.M. to 8:45 A.M. and 3:00 P.M. to
4:00 P.M. from Central Avenue to Fair Elms Avenue on school days.
53rd STREET - North side
No parking at any time from Wolf Road to Caroline Avenue.
53rd STREET - South side
No parking at any time from Wolf Road to a point 50 feet east.
55th STREET - North side
No parking at any time from the tollway to the east Village limits.
55th STREET - South side
No parking at any time from tollway to the east right-of- way line of Wolf
Road.
(Ord. 00-2142, 9-25-2000; amd. Ord. 01-2163, 4-2-2001; Ord. 02-2192, 1-28-2002;
Ord. 02-2198, 2-25-2002; Ord. 02-2204, 8-19-2002; Ord. 03-2224, 1-27-2003; Ord.
03-2263, 9-22-2003; Ord. 05-2359, 10-24-2005; Ord. 05-2376, 12-19-2005; Ord.
06-2387, 4-24-2006; Ord. 06-2429, 12-18-2006; Ord. 09-2526, 2-23-2009; Ord. 09-
2535, 4-27-2009; Ord. 09-2555, 10-26-2009; Ord. 10-2587, 7-19-2010; Ord. 11-
2648, 9-26-2011; Ord. 13-2722, 6-24-2013; Ord. 17-2889, 4-24-2017; Ord. 19-
2953, 4-22-2019; Ord. 19-2954, 4-22-2019; Ord. 22-3105, 10-24-2022; Ord. 24-
3179, 3-11-2024; Ord. 24-3210, 8-19-2024; Ord. 25-3255, 3-24-2025; Ord. 25-
3256, 3-27-2025)
7-4-4: SCHEDULE IV; STOP STREETS:
In accordance with section
7-1-1 of this title and when posted by sign, all vehicles shall stop on: (1978
Code § 9-10-4; amd. 1997 Code)
AREA NO. 1
  
Burlington at
 Gilbert E.B.
 Wolf W.B.
Caroline at 51st Street N.B. and S.B.
Clausen at
 Burlington N.B.
 46th Street N.B. and S.B.
 47th Street S.B.
 51st Street N.B.
Courtland at Wolf W.B.
Ellington at
 Burlington N.B.
 51st Street N.B.
Franklin at
 Burlington N.B.
 46th Street N.B. and S.B.
 47th Street N.B. and S.B.
Harvey at
 Burlington N.B.
 45th Street N.B. and S.B.
 47th Street S.B.
 51st Street N.B. and S.B.
Hillgrove Avenue at Grand Avenue W.B. and E.B.
Howard at
 Burlington N.B.
 46th Street N.B. and S.B.
 47th Street N.B. and S.B.
Johnson at
 Burlington N.B.
 45th Street N.B. and S.B.
 46th Street N.B. and S.B.
 47th Street N.B. and S.B.
 51st Street N.B.
North Christian Church lot exit onto Lawn.
Wolf at Burlington N.B.
45th Street at
 Clausen E.B. and W.B.
 Franklin E.B. and W.B.
 Gilbert E.B.
 Howard E.B. and W.B.
 Wolf W.B.
46th Street at
 Franklin Avenue E.B. and W.B. (all-way stop)
 Gilbert E.B.
 Harvey E.B. and W.B.
 Howard E.B. and W.B.
 Johnson E.B. and W.B.
 Wolf W.B.
48th Street at Wolf W.B.
51st Street at
 Caroline Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Gilbert E.B.
 Wolf W.B.
52nd Place at
 Gilbert E.B.
 Howard N. and S.B.
52nd Street at Lawn W.B.
53rd Street at Wolf W.B.
 
(1978 Code §
9-10-4; amd. Ord. 91-1819, 6-24-1991; Ord. 97-2006, 4-28-1997; Ord. 98-2045, 6-
22-1998; Ord. 99-2075, 2-22-1999; Ord. 99-2083, 4-26-1999; Ord. 99-2088, 6-21-
1999; Ord. 01-2164, 4-2-2001; Ord. 03-2262, 9-22-2003)
AREA NO. 2
Burlington Avenue at
 Grand E. and W.B.
 Lawn E. and W.B.
 Wolf E.B.
Central Avenue at
 Burlington N.B.
 Elm Street N.B. and S.B.
 48th Street N. and S.B.
 49th Street N. and S.B.
 51st Street N. and S.B.
 53rd Street N. and S.B.
 54th Street N. and S.B.
Commonwealth Avenue at
 49th Court South N.B.
Elm Street at
 Central Avenue W.B.
 Grand Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Lawn E. and W.B.
 Wolf E.B.
Fair Elms Avenue at
 47th Street N.B.
 48th Street N. and S.B.
 49th Street N. and S.B.
 51st Street N. and S.B.
 53rd Street N. and S.B.
Grand Avenue at
 Burlington N.B.
 Elm Street N. and S.B.
 47th Street N. and S.B.
 48th Street N. and S.B.
 49th Street N. and S.B.
 51st Street N. and S.B.
 53rd Street N. and S.B.
 54th Street N. and S.B.
 55th Street S.B.
Hillgrove Avenue at
 Lawn Avenue E.B.
Lawn Avenue at
 Burlington N.B.
 47th Street N. and S.B.
 48th Street N. and S.B.
 49th Street N. and S.B.
 51st Street N. and S.B.
 53rd Street N. and S.B.
 54th Street N. and S.B.
 55th Street S.B.
Post Office Drive at Wolf Road E.B.
Woodland Avenue at
 Burlington N.B.
 Elm N. and S.B.
 47th Street N. and S.B.
 49th Street N. and S.B.
 51st Street N. and S.B.
 53rd Street N. and S.B.
48th Street at
 Wolf E.B.
 Woodland E. and W.B.
49th Street at
 Central Avenue E. and W.B.
 Wolf E.B.
51st Street at
 Central Avenue E. and W.B.
 Wolf E.B.
 Woodland E. and W.B.
53rd Street at
 Fair Elms Avenue E.B. and W.B. (all-way stop).
 Wolf E.B.
 Woodland E. and W.B.
54th Street at
 Fair Elms W.B.
 Wolf E.B.
 Woodland E. and W.B.
 
(Ord. 98-2037, 4-27-1998; amd. Ord. 98-2038, 4-27-1998; Ord. 98-2051, 8-10-
1998; Ord. 00-2122, 4-24-2000; Ord. 00-2128, 6-12-2000; Ord. 01-2169, 6-25-
2001; Ord. 03-2261, 9-22-2003; Ord. 07-2467, 11-19-2007)
AREA NO. 3
  
Clausen Avenue at
 Hillgrove Avenue S.B.
 Ogden Avenue N.B.
 39th Street N.B. and S.B.
 40th Street N.B. and S.B.
 41st Street N.B. and S.B.
 42nd Street N.B. and S.B.
Ellington Avenue at
 Hillgrove Avenue S.B.
 Ogden Avenue N.B.
 41st Street N.B. and S.B.
Franklin Avenue at
 Hillgrove Avenue S.B.
 Ogden Avenue N.B.
 41st Street N.B. and S.B.
 43rd Street E.B., W.B., S.B., and N.B. (all-way stop)
Gilbert Avenue at Hillgrove S.B.
Harvey Avenue at
 Hillgrove Avenue S.B.
 Ogden Avenue N.B.
 39th Street N.B. and S.B.
 40th Street N.B. and S.B.
 41st Street N.B. and S.B.
 42nd Street N.B. and S.B.
Hillgrove Avenue at
 Gilbert Avenue E.B.
 Wolf Road W.B.
Howard Avenue at
 Hillgrove Avenue S.B.
 Ogden Avenue N.B.
 39th Street N.B. and S.B.
 40th Street N.B. and S.B.
 41st Street N.B. and S.B.
 42nd Street N.B. and S.B.
 43rd Street N.B. and S.B.
Johnson Avenue at
 Hillgrove Avenue S.B.
 Ogden Avenue N.B.
 39th Street N.B. and S.B.
 40th Street N.B. and S.B.
 41st Street N.B. and S.B.
 42nd Street N.B. and S.B.
 43rd Street N.B. and S.B.
Linden Avenue at
 Hillgrove Avenue S.B.
 41st Street N.B. and S.B.
39th Street at
 Clausen Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Ellington Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Franklin Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Gilbert Avenue E.B.
 Linden Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Wolf Road W.B.
40th Street at
 Ellington Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Franklin Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Gilbert Avenue E.B.
 Linden Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Wolf Road W.B.
41st Street at
 Ellington Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Gilbert Avenue E.B.
 Howard Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Wolf Road W.B.
42nd Street at
 Ellington Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Franklin Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Gilbert Avenue E.B.
 Johnson Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Linden Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Wolf Road W.B.
43rd Street at
 Franklin Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Howard Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Wolf Road W.B.
 
(Ord. 96-1964, 2-26-1996; amd. Ord. 09-2556, 10-26-2009; Ord. 21-3048, 6-28-
2021)
AREA NO. 4
  
Central at
 Chestnut N.B. and S.B. (all-way stop).
 Hillgrove S.B.
 Ogden N.B.
 Walnut N.B., S.B., E.B. and W.B. (all-way stop).
Chestnut at
 Central E.B. and W.B.
 Hampton W.B.
 Lawn E.B. and W.B.
 Wolf E.B.
Forest at
 Chestnut S.B.
 Maple N.B., S.B., E.B. and W.B. (all-way stop).
 Oak N.B. and S.B.
 Ogden N.B.
Garden Avenue at Oak Avenue N.B. and S.B.
Grand at
 Chestnut N.B., S.B., E.B. and W.B. (all-way stop).
 Hillgrove S.B.
 Maple N.B. and S.B.
 Oak N.B. and S.B.
 Ogden N.B.
 Walnut N.B. and S.B.
Grove at
 Chestnut S.B.
 Maple N.B. and S.B.
 Oak N.B. and S.B.
 Ogden N.B.
Hampton at
 Hillgrove S.B.
 Maple N.B., S.B., E.B. and W.B. (all-way stop).
 Oak Street N.B. and S.B.
 Ogden N.B.
 Reid Street N.B. and S.B.
 39th Street N.B. and S.B.
Hillgrove Avenue at
  Central portable double-sided stop sign within the existing pedestrian
 crosswalk located in the intersection of Central Avenue and Hillgrove Avenue
  E.B. and W.B.
 Lawn E.B. and W.B.
 Prospect Avenue E.B., W.B. and S.B. (three-way stop)
 Wolf E.B.
Lawn at
 Chestnut N.B. and S.B.
 Maple N.B. and S.B.
 Oak N.B. and S.B.
 Ogden N.B.
 Walnut S.B.
Maple at
 Central E.B., W.B., S.B. and N.B. (all-way stop).
 Garden Avenue E.B. and W.B.
 Wolf E.B.
Oak at
 Central E.B. and W.B.
 Hampton W.B. and E.B.
 Wolf E.B.
Prospect at
 Chestnut N.B.
 Hillgrove S.B.
 Walnut N.B. and S.B.
Reid at
 Hampton W.B.
 Prospect E.B. and N.B.
Rose Avenue at Maple N.B. and S.B.
Sunset Terrace at Hampton E.B.
Walker at
 Hampton W.B.
 Prospect E.B.
 Theatre crosswalk W.B.
 Theatre Drive E.B.
Walnut at
 Grand Avenue N.B., S.B., E.B. and W.B. (all-way stop).
 Hampton N.B., S.B., E.B. and W.B. (all-way stop).
 Prospect E.B. and W.B. (all-way stop).
Willow at Hampton E.B.
Wolf at Hillgrove S.B.
Woodland at
 Chestnut N.B. and S.B.
 Hillgrove S.B.
 Maple N.B. and S.B.
 Oak N.B. and S.B.
 Ogden N.B.
 Walnut N.B. and S.B.
39th Street at Hampton E.B.
 
(Ord. 92-1829, 1-27-1992; amd. Ord. 92-1836, 4-27-1992; Ord. 95-1953, 5-22-
1995; Ord. 96-1967, 4-22-1996; Ord. 96-1971, 6-17-1996; Ord. 97-1996, 2-24-
1997; Ord. 97-2028, 12-15-1997; Ord. 99-2088, 6-21-1999; Ord. 00-2122, 4-24-
2000; Ord. 02-2197, 2-25-2002; Ord. 02-2209, 12-2-2002; Ord. 03-2225, 2-24-
2003; Ord. 05-2329, 1-24-2005; Ord. 12-2687, 6-25-2012; Ord. 12-2693, 9-24-
2012; Ord. 16-2836, 4-25-2016; Ord. 18-2944, 12-17-2018; Ord. 22-3116, 1-23-
2023)
AREA NO. 5
  
Birch Lane at Woodland E.B.
Grand Avenue at 55th Street N.B.
Lawn Drive at Grand.
Park Place at
 Lawn Drive.
 Wolf Road E.B.
Woodland Drive at 55th Street N.B.
 
(1978 Code §
9-10-4; amd. Ord. 95-1947, 8-21-1995)
7-4-5: SCHEDULE V; YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY:
   Hillgrove Avenue at Lawn W.B.
   Longmeadow Lane at Woodland Drive E. and W.B.
   Park Place at Woodland Drive E. and W.B.
(Ord. 98-2037, 4-27-1998; amd. Ord. 99-2075, 2-22-1999)
7-4-6: SCHEDULE VI; TURNING RESTRICTIONS:
Howard Avenue at 43rd Street:
  Right turn only for southbound traffic on Howard Avenue at 43rd Street on
 school days during the periods of early morning drop off and midafternoon
  pick up of students.
Johnson at Ogden, N.B. no left turn.
Lawn at Ogden, N.B. no left turn.
Wolf Road at
 Chestnut, N.B., no left turn 3:00 P.M. to 6:00 P.M. Monday through Friday.
 51st Street, N.B. and S.B., no turn on red when children are present.
51st Street at Wolf Road, W.B. and E.B., no turn on red when children are
present.
 
(Ord. 97-1997, 2-24-1997; amd. Ord. 04-2281, 2-23-2004; Ord. 11-2648, 9-26-
2011)
7-4-7: SCHEDULE VII; NO THROUGH TRUCKS:
In accordance with section
7-1-1 of this title, and when prohibited by ordinance and posted by sign, no
operator of any truck having a gross weight of eight thousand one (8,001)
pounds or more, as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-815(a), shall
operate a truck upon any of the following streets: (Ord. 86-1699, 4-28-1986;
amd. 1997 Code)
Gilbert Avenue, S.B., Ogden Avenue to 47th Street.
(Ord. 86-1699, 4-28-1986)
7-4-8: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Reasonable Speed: No vehicle may be driven upon any street or alley in
the Village at a speed which is greater than is reasonable and proper with
regard to traffic conditions and the use of said street or alley or endangers
the safety of any person or property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does
not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from
the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway or when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or road
conditions. Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with
any person or vehicle on or entering the street or alley in compliance with
legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   B.   Speed Limits Established:
      1.   Roadways Under Jurisdiction Of State Or County: It shall be unlawful
to drive any vehicle on any street or highway within the Village under the
jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation or the County at a
speed exceeding that lawfully set.
      2.   Roadways Not Under Jurisdiction Of State Or County; General Speed
Restrictions: Unless some other speed restriction is established under this
section, it shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street not
under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation or the
County at a speed in excess of twenty five (25) miles per hour or in an alley
at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      3.   Vehicles With Solid Tires: It shall be unlawful to operate any
vehicle equipped with two (2) or more solid tires on any street or alley within
the Village and under its jurisdiction at a speed in excess of ten (10) miles
per hour.
      4.   Schools: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of twenty (20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling
upon any public thoroughfare on or across which children pass along, to and
from school, during school days when schoolchildren are present. Appropriate
signs shall be posted to indicate this restriction. (1997 Code)
      5.   Speed Limits On Specific Roadways: It shall be unlawful to drive any
motor vehicle on the following roadways in the Village in excess of the
following speed limits:
   20 Miles Per Hour
BURLINGTON AVENUE from Johnson Avenue to Grand Avenue.
GILBERT AVENUE/WILLOW SPRINGS ROAD from the south right- of-way line of 47th
Street to a point four hundred eighty nine feet (489') south of said line.
Signage shall state that the speed regulation applies:
      On school days when children are present
HILLGROVE AVENUE from Howard Avenue to Central Avenue.
LAWN AVENUE between Burlington Avenue and Elm Avenue.
WALKER STREET between Hampton and the recreation center.
   30 Miles Per Hour
GILBERT AVENUE from Ogden Avenue to 47th Street.
   35 Miles Per Hour
GILBERT AVENUE/WILLOW SPRINGS ROAD from a point seventy six feet (76') south of
the south right-of-way line of 47th Street to the southerly Village limits.
(Ord. 07-2450, 6-25-2007)
7-4-9: LOADING ZONES:
In accordance with subsection
7-3-2D of this title, the following are loading zones within the Village:
Hillgrove Avenue, north side, from a point thirty feet (30') east of Grand
Avenue to a point one hundred five feet (105') east.
Johnson Avenue, west side, from a point one hundred feet (100') south of 42nd
Street to a point four hundred feet (400') south.
Woodland Avenue, west side, from a point one hundred forty three feet (143')
south of Walnut Street to a point one hundred eighty three feet (183') south.
(1978 Code § 9-5-7; amd. Ord. 80-1572, 4-21-1980; Ord. 90-1796, 5-21-1990; 1997
Code)
7-4-10: CROSSWALKS:
In accordance with applicable provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code 1  and
the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code 2 , the Village shall install crosswalks within
the Village at the following locations:
CHESTNUT STREET
Crosswalk on Chestnut Street at the west sidewalk crossing at Forest Avenue.
Crosswalk on Chestnut Street at the west sidewalk crossing at Grove Avenue.
Crosswalk on Chestnut Street at the west sidewalk crossing at Prospect Avenue.
(Ord. 19-2953, 4-22-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-11.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/1-113, 5/11-903, 5/11-1002, 5/11-1303 and 5/11-1425.
CHAPTER 5
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF VEHICLE REGULATION VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose And Creation
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Administrative Composition
7-5-4: Procedure
7-5-5: Administrative Hearings
7-5-6: Additional Notices
7-5-7: Final Determination Of Liability
7-5-8: Administrative Review
7-5-9: Nonresident Procedures
7-5-10: Schedule Of Fines And Penalties
7-5-11: Certified Report
7-5-12: Immobilization, Towing And Impoundment
7-5-13: Judicial Review
7-5-14: Debt To The Village
7-5-15: Judgment
7-5-1: PURPOSE AND CREATION:
The stated purpose of this amendment to this code is to provide a fair and
efficient enforcement of village vehicular standing, parking, condition of
vehicle regulation, and automated traffic law violation(s) and other village
regulation violation(s) as may be allowed by law, through an administrative
adjudication of violation(s) of village ordinances regulating the standing,
parking, condition of vehicles, and automated traffic law violations within the
geographic boundaries of the village and a schedule of uniform fines and
penalties and authority and procedures for collection of unpaid fines and
penalties.
To accomplish the foregoing purpose, sections 11-208.3 and 11-208.6 of the
Illinois vehicle code 1  are hereby adopted in their current form and as they
may be amended from time to time for adjudication of vehicular regulation and
automated traffic law violations to the extent permitted by the Illinois
constitution of 1970. (Ord. 09-2536, 4-27-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3, 11-208.6.
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter:
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device within the village with one
or more motor vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light signal to
produce recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection against a
steady or flashing red signal indication or sign prohibiting such entry in
violation of section 11-306 of the Illinois vehicle code or section
7-1-3 of this title.
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW VIOLATION: A violation of section 11-306 of the Illinois
vehicle code or section
7-1-3 of this title captured by an automated traffic law enforcement system.
However, no automated traffic law violation shall exist where a motor vehicle
comes to a complete stop and does not enter the intersection, as defined by
section 1-132 of the Illinois vehicle code 1 , during the cycle of the red
signal indication unless one or more pedestrians or bicyclists are present,
even if the motor vehicle stops at a point past a stop line or crosswalk where
a driver is required to stop, as specified in subsection (c) of section 11-306
of the Illinois vehicle code or section
7-1-3 of this title.
COMPLIANCE VIOLATION: A violation of a village regulation governing the
condition or use of equipment on a vehicle or governing the display of a
village wheel tax license sticker.
RECORDED IMAGES: Images produced by an automated traffic law enforcement
system, which consist of either two (2) or more photographs; two (2) or more
microphotographs; two (2) or more electronic images; or a video recording
showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of the
recording, clearly identifying the registration plate number of the motor
vehicle. (Ord. 10-2599, 11-22-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-132.
7-5-3: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION:
The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular standing, parking,
compliance regulation and automated traffic law violation(s) shall provide for
a traffic compliance officer, hearing officer and telecommunicator with the
power, authority and limitations as are hereinafter set forth:
   A.   Traffic Compliance Officer: The traffic compliance officer shall be the
director of law enforcement services or his/her designee and shall be empowered
and is hereby authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation and automated traffic law
violation(s).
      2.   Adopt, distribute and process standing, parking, compliance and
automated traffic law violation notices and other notices as may be required
under this chapter or as may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of
this chapter.
      3.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation or
automated traffic law violation(s) liability.
      4.   Certify copies of final determination(s) of standing, parking,
compliance regulation and automated traffic law violation(s) liability and
factual report(s) verifying that the final determination of standing, parking,
compliance regulation and automated traffic law violation(s) liability was
issued in accordance with this chapter and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
208.3.
      5.   Certify reports to the Illinois secretary of state concerning
initiation of suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, hereinafter set forth, and those of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
      6.   Review final determination(s) of vehicular standing, parking,
compliance regulation and automated traffic law violation(s) liability,
validity of notices of impending impoundment or validity of notice of impending
driver's license suspension, in an administrative review capacity in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, hereinafter set forth.
      7.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created.
      8.   Collect unpaid fines and penalties by filing complaints in the
circuit court of Cook County or selecting or appointing an individual or agency
to act on behalf of the village in filing complaints seeking judgments for
unpaid fines or penalties and pursuit of all postjudgment remedies available by
current law.
      9.   To select or appoint an individual, agency or firm to tow and
impound vehicles in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, hereinafter
set forth.
   B.   Hearing Officer: The hearing officer shall be appointed by the village
manager and shall be empowered and is hereby authorized and directed to:
      1.   Preside over the administrative hearings, established herein, as the
adjudicator.
      2.   Administer oaths.
      3.   Issue subpoenas to secure the attendance of witnesses and production
of relevant papers or documentation.
      4.   Assess fines and penalties for the violation of vehicular standing,
parking, compliance regulation and automated traffic law violation(s) as are
established in section
7-5-10 of this chapter.
      5.   Make final determination of:
         a.   Vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation and automated
traffic law violation(s) liability.
         b.   Validity of notice of impending impoundment.
         c.   Validity of notice of impending driver's license suspension.
      6.   Provide for the accurate recordation of the administrative
adjudication hearing(s) and otherwise preserve the record of the proceedings.
   C.   Telecommunicator(s): Telecommunicators are hereby authorized and
directed to operate and maintain the computer program(s) for the administrative
adjudication system hereby created, on a day to day basis, including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Input of violation notice information.
      2.   Establishing and/or tracking hearing date(s) and notice dates.
      3.   Input of fine and penalty assessments and payment(s).
      4.   Issue payment receipts.
      5.   Issue succeeding notices of hearing dates, final determination of
liability, notice of impending impoundment, and notice of impending driver's
license suspension, as directed by the traffic compliance officer in accordance
with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
      6.   Keep accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, fines and penalties assessed and paid.
   D.   Compensation: Compensation to be paid for each of the above stated
positions shall be as determined by the village manager with budgetary review
and approval by the village president and board of trustees.
   E.   Independent Contractor: The hearing officer shall be employed as an
independent contractor of the village and shall not be considered an employee
of the village. (Ord. 09-2536, 4-27-2009)
7-5-4: PROCEDURE:
The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular standing, parking,
compliance regulation and automated traffic law violation(s) shall be in
accordance with the following procedures, and final determination(s) of
vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation and automated traffic law
violation(s) liability, validity of notice of impending impoundment, validity
of notice of impending driver's license suspension, impoundment of vehicle and
collections shall be made in accordance with the provisions set forth below:
   A.   Violation Notice: A vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation
and automated traffic law violation notice shall be issued by the person(s)
authorized herein and shall contain information and shall be served, certified
and have evidentiary admissibility as is hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Authorization: All full time, part time, auxiliary police and community
service officers as well as other specifically appointed individuals shall have
the authority to issue violation notices.
   C.   Detection Of Violations: Any individual authorized hereby to issue
violation notices and who detects a violation authorized to be adjudicated by
this chapter, shall issue a notice of violation thereof and shall make service
thereof as is hereinafter set forth.
   D.   Notice Of Standing, Parking Or Compliance Violation To Contain: The
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation notice shall
contain, but shall not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance).
      2.   The particular vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violated.
      3.   Vehicle make and state registration number.
      4.   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payment.
      5.   The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice.
      6.   A section entitled "request for hearing" which shall clearly set
forth that the registered owner or lessee may request and appear at an initial
administrative hearing to contest the validity of the violation notice by:
         a.   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified "request for hearing".
         b.   Placing his/her name and current address in the place provided.
         c.   Signing his/her name in the appropriate indicated place.
         d.   Filing the violation notice with the "request for hearing"
portion fully completed and delivered to the traffic compliance officer
postmarked within ten (10) days of the violation notice issuance. The request
shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the traffic compliance officer.
      7.   That payment of the indicated fine and any late payment penalty
shall operate as a final disposition of the violation.
      8.   A section entitled "nonresident request for hearing - nonappearance"
which clearly sets forth that a nonresident registered owner or lessee may
request and appear at an initial administrative hearing to contest the validity
of the violation notice without personally appearing by:
         a.   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified "nonresident request for hearing - nonappearance".
         b.   Placing his/her name and current address in the place provided.
         c.   Signing his/her name in the appropriate indicated place.
         d.   Filing the violation notice with the "nonresident request for
hearing - nonappearance" portion fully completed and delivered to the traffic
compliance officer postmarked within ten (10) days of the violation notice
issuance. The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the traffic
compliance officer.
         e.   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice which must be filed with the traffic
compliance officer postmarked within ten (10) days of the violation notice
issuance. The request shall be deemed filed, if postmarked by the due dates
herein specified.
         f.   A clearly marked statement that execution of the nonresident
request for hearing is a waiver of the nonresident's right to a personal
appearance and that the adjudication will be made based upon the notarized
statement of facts submitted by the nonresident and the facts contained in the
violation notice.
   E.   Notice Of Automated Traffic Law Violation To Contain:
      1.   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the Illinois secretary of state, or, if
such information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address
recorded in a United States post office approved database;
      2.   The make (only if readily discernible and available) and
registration number of the motor vehicle involved in the violation;
      3.   The violation charged/section(s) of the code alleged to have been
violated;
      4.   The location where the violation occurred;
      5.   The date and time of the violation;
      6.   A copy of the recorded images and an explanation of how to access
the images on the internet;
      7.   The amount of the civil penalty and the date by which the penalty
should be paid (14 days from the date of issuance) if a hearing is not
requested, and a statement that the payment of the fine shall operate as a
final disposition of the violation;
      8.   A statement that a failure to pay the civil penalty by the date
noted may result in an additional late fee being assessed against the owner or
lessee;
      9.   The amount of the late fee;
      10.   A statement that the failure to pay by the date specified or to
contest liability in a timely manner will result in a final determination of
liability and may result in the suspension of driving privileges for the
registered owner of the vehicle;
      11.   A statement that the recorded images constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation of a red light signal;
      12.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by paying the fine
or challenging the charge by mail or by administrative hearing;
      13.   A statement explaining how an administrative hearing may be
requested; and
      14.   The identification number of the person issuing the notice.
   F.   Service Of The Notice: Service of the violation notice shall be made by
the person issuing such notice by:
      1.   Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully
standing or parked vehicle; or
      2.   Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee of
the vehicle, if present; or
      3.   For automated traffic law violations, by mailing the notice via U.S.
mail to the address of the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle, as
indicated by the records of the secretary of state, within thirty (30) days
after the secretary of state notifies the village of the identity of the owner
of the vehicle, but in no event later than ninety (90) days after the
violation, or, if such information is outdated or unattainable, or if any
notice to an address is returned as undeliverable, then by mailing the notice
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the owner or
lessee of the cited vehicle recorded in a United States post office approved
database. The village shall only be required to notify a lessee if the leasing
company/lessor provides the lessee's name by an affidavit and a copy of the
lease within sixty (60) days of the notice's issuance. If the lessee
information is not provided within sixty (60) days, the leasing company/lessor
may be found liable.
   G.   Facts: The correctness of facts contained in the vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation, or automated traffic law violation notice
shall be certified by the person issuing said notice by:
      1.   Signing his/her name to the notice at the time of service; or
      2.   In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by signing a
single certificate, to be kept by the traffic compliance officer, attesting to
the correctness of all notices produced by the device while under his/her
control; or
      3.   In the case of an automated traffic law violation, a technician
employed by or contracted by the village must inspect the associated recorded
images and determine whether the vehicle pictured was being operated in a
manner that resulted in an automated traffic law violation and whether one of
the defenses enumerated for such offenses is visibly applicable. In no case
shall a violation notice issue without review and approval of a law enforcement
officer or retired law enforcement officer of the village. Upon determining
that a violation is apparent, and that no defense is visibly applicable, a
violation notice may be issued.
   H.   Notice Retained: The original or a facsimile of the violation notice
(s), recorded images, or, in the case of a notice produced by a computerized
device, a printed record generated by the device showing the facts entered on
the notice, shall be retained by the traffic compliance officer and kept as a
record in the ordinary course of business.
   I.   Prima Facie Evidence Of Correctness: Any violation notice(s) issued,
signed and served in accordance herewith, or a copy of the notice, or the
computer generated record, shall be prima facie correct and shall be prima
facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the notice.
   J.   Admissibility: The violation notice(s) or a copy(ies) or computer
generated record shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal
proceeding. (Ord. 10-2599, 11-22-2010)
7-5-5: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
An administrative hearing to adjudicate the alleged standing, parking, or
compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s) on its merits is
subject to the following:
   A.   Hearing Granted: A hearing shall be granted to the registered owner of
the cited vehicle, pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 or the
lessee of the cited vehicle, pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
1306, incorporated herein by reference.
   B.   Dates: Hearing dates shall be at the date, time and place as is set
forth in the violation notice issued and served, or as assigned and indicated
in any notice sent pursuant to a request for a hearing, or as indicated in such
additional notices setting a hearing date that are issued in accordance with
this chapter. Violators of standing, parking, or compliance regulations shall
be given no less than three (3) opportunities to appear and failure to appear
by the third scheduled hearing date will result in a "final determination of
liability" as hereinafter set forth.
   C.   Hearings Recorded: Hearings shall be tape recorded.
   D.   Liability Or Nonliability: Hearings shall culminate in a determination
of liability or nonliability, made by the hearing officer, who shall consider
testimony and other evidence presented without the application of the formal or
technical rules of evidence. The hearing officer shall, upon a determination of
liability, assess fines, costs and penalties in accordance with section
7-5-10 of this chapter.
   E.   Representation By Attorney: Persons appearing to contest the alleged
standing, parking, compliance or automated traffic law violation on its merits
may be represented by counsel at their own expense.
   F.   Review: The final determination of any matter which may be decided by
the hearing officer may be reviewed as is hereinafter set forth. A
determination by the hearing officer of liability or nonliability is final for
purposes of judicial review when entered.
   G.   Defenses: The hearing officer may consider the following defenses to
automated traffic law violations:
      1.   That the motor vehicle or registration plates of the motor vehicle
were stolen before the violation occurred, and were therefore not under the
control of or in the possession of the owner at the time of the violation. To
demonstrate that the motor vehicle or the registration plates were stolen
before the violation occurred and were not under the control or possession of
the owner at the time of the violation, the owner must submit proof that a
report concerning the stolen motor vehicle or registration plates was filed
with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner; or
      2.   That the driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection when
the light was red either: a) in order to yield the right of way to an emergency
vehicle or b) as part of a funeral procession; or
      3.   That the driver received a uniform traffic citation from a police
officer at the time of the violation for the same incident; or
      4.   That the driver of the motor vehicle came to a complete stop and did
not enter the intersection, as defined by section 1-132 of the Illinois vehicle
code 1 , during the cycle of the red signal indication, even where the motor
vehicle stopped at a point past a stop line or crosswalk where a driver is
required to stop, as specified in subsection (c) of section 11-306 of the
Illinois vehicle code or section
7-1-3 of this title. This defense shall not apply where one or more pedestrians
or bicyclists were present.
   H.   Burden Of Proof: No violation may be established except upon proof by a
preponderance of the evidence; provided, however, that the original or a
legible copy of a violation notice issued in accordance with the applicable
provisions of this code, shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of
the facts specified therein. (Ord. 10-2599, 11-22-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-132.
7-5-6: ADDITIONAL NOTICES:
   A.   Service: Service of additional notices and/or determinations required
under this section and chapter shall:
      1.   Be sent to the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle at
the address as is recorded with the Illinois secretary of state, or if any
notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, to the last known address
recorded in a United States post office approved database; or
      2.   Be sent to the lessee of the cited vehicle at the address last known
to the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of the lease, or if any notice
to that address is returned as undeliverable, to the last known address
recorded in a United States post office approved database; and
      3.   Be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid. Service of additional
notices sent in accordance herewith shall be complete as of the date of deposit
in the United States mail.
   B.   Additional Notices In Standing, Parking Or Compliance Regulation
Actions: Upon the failure of the registered owner or lessee of a vehicle cited
for a standing, parking or compliance regulation violation to either pay or
request a hearing and/or appear at a hearing date assigned by the village or at
the hearing set forth in the vehicular standing, parking, or compliance
regulation violation notice, whichever is applicable, additional notice(s)
shall be sent, as above set forth, and shall contain, but not be limited to,
the following information:
      1.   Date and location of violation cited in the vehicular standing,
parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation notice.
      2.   Particular standing, parking, compliance regulation or other
regulation violated.
      3.   Vehicle make and state registration.
      4.   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
      5.   Notice to the registered owner or lessee of their current status,
other than paid in full.
      6.   The availability of an administrative hearing at which the alleged
violation may be contested on its merits, and the time and manner in which the
hearing may be had.
      7.   Statement that failure to either pay the fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at a hearing on its merits in the time and manner
specified will result in a final determination of vehicle standing, parking, or
compliance regulation liability for the cited violation in the amount of the
fine and penalty indicated.
      8.   Statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
vehicular standing, parking, compliance or automated traffic law violation(s)
liability for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust,
available administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or
penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the village.
   C.   Notice Of Determination; Automated Traffic Law Violations: If the
registered owner or lessee, if applicable, fails to pay or contest the notice
of violation of an automated traffic law violation within fourteen (14) days, a
notice of determination of default liability will be sent to the owner
indicating that a fine in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) is due to
the village. The notice will also state that the owner can petition the village
to set aside the determination of liability within fourteen (14) days. The
judgment of default liability constitutes a final determination for purposes of
judicial review. If the owner does not pay the one hundred dollars ($100.00) as
specified in the notice or petition the village to set aside the determination
within fourteen (14) days or exercise his or her right to judicial review
within thirty five (35) days, a notice of final determination of liability will
be mailed to the owner in conformance with subsection D of this section.
   D.   Notice Of Final Determination Of Liability: A notice of final
determination of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
liability shall be sent following an appearance by the violator and a
determination of liability, or the failure to appear by the violator by the
third and final hearing date and, in either case, upon the conclusion of any
administrative and/or judicial review proceedings or the expiration of the time
to file for same, as is hereinafter set forth. A notice of final determination
of automated traffic law violations shall be sent following an appearance by
the violator and a determination of liability, or following a notice of
determination of liability as set forth above, and, in both cases, the
conclusion of any administrative and/or judicial review proceedings or the
expiration of the time to file for same. The notice shall contain, but not be
limited to, the following information and warnings:
      1.   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a debt
due and owing the village.
      2.   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and owing
the village within the time specified may result in the village's filing a
complaint in the circuit court to have the unpaid fine or penalty rendered a
judgment in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3(f),
incorporated herein by reference.
      3.   A warning that the vehicle owned by the person and located within
the village may be impounded for failure to pay fines or penalties for five (5)
or more vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic
law violations.
      4.   A warning that the person's driver's license shall be suspended for
failure to pay fines or penalties for ten (10) or more vehicular standing or
parking violations under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5, incorporated
herein by reference or five (5) or more automated traffic law violations under
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.6, incorporated herein by reference.
      5.   A warning that failure to pay the unpaid fine within fourteen (14)
days will result in a late fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) added to the
original fine.
   E.   Suspension Notices: A notice of impending suspension of a person's
driver's license shall be sent to any person determined to be liable for the
payment of any fine or penalty that remains due and owing on ten (10) or more
vehicular standing or parking regulation violations or five (5) or more unpaid
automated traffic law violations:
      1.   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine or penalty
owing within forty five (45) days of the date of the notice will result in the
village's notifying the Illinois secretary of state that the person is eligible
for initiation of suspension proceedings under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/6-306.5 or 11-208.6 incorporated herein by reference.
      2.   The notice shall also state that copies of the original violation
notices imposing a fine or penalty are available by sending a self-addressed,
stamped envelope to the village along with a request for copies.
      3.   The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the Illinois
secretary of state, or, if any notice to that address is returned as
undeliverable, to the last known address recorded in a United States post
office approved database. (Ord. 10-2599, 11-22-2010)
7-5-7: FINAL DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
A final determination of vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation or
automated traffic law violation(s) liability shall:
   A.   Occur following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty
after the hearing officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking,
compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s) liability and the
exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust any administrative and/or judicial
review procedures hereinafter set forth, or
   B.   Where a person fails to appear at a prior requested hearing or by the
third and final administrative hearing provided to contest the alleged
standing, parking or compliance regulation violation(s) on the date and at the
time and place specified in a prior served or mailed notice, or fails to appear
at the hearing for an automated traffic law violation on the date and at the
time and place specified in a prior mailed notice, the hearing officer's
determination of vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation or
automated traffic law violation(s) liability shall become final upon the
exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust any judicial review procedures
hereinafter set forth:
      1.   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination, or
      2.   Upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition without a
filing having been made. (Ord. 10-2599, 11-22-2010)
7-5-8: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
A petition to set aside a determination of vehicular standing, parking,
compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s) liability may be
filed by a person owing an unpaid fine or penalty in the manner and subject to
the restrictions and grounds hereinafter set forth:
   A.   A written petition to set aside a determination of liability, along
with any supporting documentation, must be filed in the office of the traffic
compliance officer within, but not later than, fourteen (14) days from the date
the determination of liability is made.
   B.   The traffic compliance officer shall act upon the petition(s) timely
filed and render a decision thereon within fourteen (14) days of the date
filed.
   C.   The grounds for setting aside a determination of liability shall be
limited to the following:
      1.   The person against whom the determination of liability is made was
not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the date the vehicular
standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation
notice(s) was issued.
      2.   The person having paid the fine or penalty prior to the
determination of liability for the violation(s) in question.
      3.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
   D.   Should the determination of liability be set aside, the traffic
compliance officer shall:
      1.   Notify the registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be, that the
determination of liability has been set aside.
      2.   Notify the registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be, of a
date, time and place for a hearing on the merits of the violation for which
determination of liability has been set aside.
      3.   Notice of setting aside of the determination of liability and the
notice of the hearing date shall be by first class mail, postage prepaid, to
the address set forth on the petition to set aside the determination of
liability.
      4.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice(s) is
deposited in the United States mail. (Ord. 09-2536, 4-27-2009)
7-5-9: NONRESIDENT PROCEDURES:
Nonresidents of the village who have been served a vehicular standing, parking,
compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation notice, in accordance
with this chapter, may contest the alleged violation on its merits, as could a
resident, or may contest the validity without personally appearing at an
administrative hearing by:
   A.   Completing, in full, the "nonresident request for hearing" section of
the violation notice, served upon him/her pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Signing the nonresident request for hearing in the space specified in
the violation notice, and acknowledging that his/her personal appearance is
waived and submitting to an adjudication based upon the notarized statement
filed by him/her and the facts contained in the violation notice.
   C.   Filing the violation notice with the "nonresident request for hearing"
section fully completed with the traffic compliance officer postmarked within
ten (10) days of the violation notice issuance. The request shall be deemed
filed upon receipt by the traffic compliance officer.
   D.   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice which must be filed with the traffic
compliance officer postmarked within ten (10) days of the violation notice
issuance. The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the traffic
compliance officer. The acceptance of a "nonresident request for hearing" after
the due date or with cause, at the discretion of the traffic compliance
officer, shall be accepted for hearing consideration and decision.
   E.   The hearing officer shall make an adjudication based upon the facts set
forth in the notarized statement of facts filed by the nonresident as is
contained in the violation notice.
   F.   Notice of the determination of the hearing officer shall be served upon
the nonresident by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
nonresident at the address set forth in the statement of facts submitted.
   G.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice is
placed in the United States mail.
   H.   All other provisions of this chapter shall apply equally to
nonresidents of the village. (Ord. 09-2536, 4-27-2009)
7-5-10: SCHEDULE OF FINES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Fines And Penalties Enumerated: The fines and penalties which shall be
imposed for the violation of vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation
or automated traffic law violation(s) shall be as follows:
  Settlement Amount
                                                             Settlement Amount
No vehicle sticker - or improper vehicle sticker -          $ 35.00
violation of sections of chapter 2 of this title
Parking - violation of sections of chapter 3 of this title  35.00
Handicapped parking - improper use of special registration
license plates or handicapped parking ID card - violation   250.00
of chapter 3 of this title
Parking meter zones - violations of sections of chapter 3,  35.00
article A of this title
No parking permit - or improper parking permit - violation  35.00
of chapter 3, article B of this title
Bicycle - violation of sections of chapter 6 of this title  35.00
Automated traffic law violation (violation of Illinois
vehicle code section 5/11-306 or section                    100.00
7-1-3 of this title)
 
Illinois vehicle code - violation of the following sections:
IVC Section Description  Amount    
IVC Section     Description                                        Amount    
5/3-413         Expired registration                              $ 35.00
5/11-306        Red signal (automated traffic law violation)      100.00
5/11-1406       Obstruction to driver's view                      35.00
5/11-1407       Improper opening of door into traffic             35.00
5/11-1410       Coasting on downgrade                             35.00
5/11-1411       Following fire apparatus                          35.00
5/12-101        Unsafe motor vehicle                              35.00
5/12-201(a)     Driving without lighted lamp (motorcycle)         35.00
5/12-201(b)     Driving without lights when required              35.00
5/12-201(b)     No taillights                                     35.00
5/12-201(b)     No red taillight                                  35.00
5/12-201(b)     Only one red taillight                            35.00
5/12-201(c)     No rear registration light                        35.00
5/12-202(b)     Rear reflectors on trailers                       35.00
5/12-204        Projecting loads                                  35.00
5/12-205.1      No lights when required (specific vehicle)        35.00
5/12-208        No signal lamp or device                          35.00
5/12-211        Improper lighting                                 35.00
5/12-212        Illegal lights (red or flashing)                  35.00
5/12-215        Illegal use of oscillating, rotating or flashing  35.00
                lights
5/12-301        Defective or no brakes                            35.00
5/12-401        Use of illegal tires (studs)                      35.00
5/12-405(c)     Use of unsafe tire                                35.00
5/12-501        No safety glass                                   35.00
5/12-502        Mirrors                                           35.00
5/12-503(a,c,e) Obstruction of driver's view                      35.00
5/12-503(d)     No windshield wiper or cleaning device            35.00
5/12-601        Defective horn                                    35.00
5/12-602        Muffler (loud; excessive noise; no muffler)       35.00
5/12-603        No seat belts                                     25.00
5/12-606        Tow trucks (identification)                       35.00
5/12-607        Vehicle suspension system                         35.00
5/12-608        Vehicle bumpers                                   35.00
5/12-702(a)     No flags, flares, warning devices carried         35.00
5/12-702(c)     No flags, flares, warning devices displayed       35.00
5/12-703        Dripping oil on roadway                           35.00
5/12-704.3      Motor vehicles using alternative fuels;           35.00
                markings
5/12-710        Inadequate or no splashguards                     35.00
5/13-101        Truck safety sticker                              35.00
               All other compliance violations                   35.00
 
   B.   Fine Payment Schedule: For violations of standing, parking or
compliance regulations:
   FINE PAYMENT SCHEDULE
 
                      General     Parking Permit Handicapped Traffic
       Fine Schedule  Parking And And Vehicle    Fine Amount Compliance
                      Bicycle     Sticker
       Upon service
       of a
       "violation                                            $ 35.00 (or
       notice" issued                                        $25.00 as noted
       and paid prior                                        under
       to the                                                Subsection
Step 1 commencement   $ 35.00     $ 35.00        $250.00     7-5-10(A)
       of the first                                          (Fines And
       hearing date                                          Penalties
       or on the                                             Enumerated )
       first hearing                                         above)
       date, the fine
       amount will
       be:
       Having failed
       to pay the
       fine amount
       specified in
       step 1 prior
       to or on the
Step 2 first hearing  70.00       70.00          275.00      70.00
       date, the fine
       amount, if
       paid prior to
       the second
       hearing date,
       will be:
       Having failed
       to pay the
       fine amount
       specified in
       step 2 prior
       to the second
       hearing date,
Step 3 the fine       150.00      150.00         300.00      150.00
       amount, if
       paid on the
       second hearing
       date or prior
       to the third
       hearing date,
       will be:
       Having failed
       to pay the
       fine amount
       specified in
       step 3 prior
       to the third
       hearing date,
       the fine
       amount, if
Step 4 paid on the    250.00      250.00         350.00      250.00
       third hearing
       date or upon
       the finding of
       liability for
       the violation,
       after failure
       to appear at
       the third
       hearing, will
       be:
 
   C.   Fines For Automated Traffic Law Violations: The owner (or lessee) is
subject to a penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per automated traffic law
violation. In the event that such penalty is not paid within fourteen (14) days
after service of a notice of determination of liability, an additional one
hundred dollar ($100.00) late payment penalty shall be imposed.
   D.   Applicability: The fines and penalties herein set forth shall be
uniformly applied for each violation of any applicable municipal ordinance.
   E.   Adoption By Reference: The village adopts by reference all current and
future local standing, parking, condition of vehicle or automated traffic law
ordinances, and those provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes governing
the standing, parking, or condition of vehicles, and automated traffic law
violations for its enforcement and adjudication within the geographical
boundaries of the village and in those areas subject to off street parking
agreements.
(Ord. 10-2599, 11-22-2010; amd. Ord. 24-3213, 9-23-2024)
7-5-11: CERTIFIED REPORT:
   A.   Upon a failure to pay fines and penalties deemed due and owing the
village after the exhaustion of administrative and judicial review procedures
set forth herein for ten (10) or more vehicular parking regulation violations,
or five (5) or more unpaid automated traffic law violations, the traffic
compliance officer shall make a certified report to the Illinois secretary of
state stating that the owner of a registered vehicle has failed to pay any fine
or penalty due and owing the village as a result of ten (10) or more violations
of municipal vehicular standing or parking regulations or five (5) or more
automated traffic law violations and thereby cause the suspension of that
person's driver's license.
   B.   The traffic compliance officer shall take no further action unless and
until the fines and penalties due and owing the village are paid or upon
determination that the inclusion of the person's name on the certified report
was in error. At such time, the traffic compliance officer shall submit to the
Illinois secretary of state a notification which shall result in the halting of
a driver's license suspension proceedings. The person named therein shall
receive a certified copy of such notification upon request and at no charge.
   C.   Persons may challenge the accuracy of the certified report by
completing a form provided by the office of the traffic compliance officer.
Such form and any supporting documentation must be sent to the traffic
compliance officer within five (5) days after the person receives notice from
the secretary of state that the person's driver's license will be suspended at
the end of a specified period of time unless the secretary is presented with a
notice from the village certifying that the fine or penalties due and owing
have been paid or that the inclusion of that person's name on the certified
report was in error. The form shall specify the grounds on which such challenge
is based. Grounds for challenge shall be limited to the following:
      1.   The person was neither the owner nor the lessee of the vehicle so
receiving ten (10) or more violation notices or five (5) or more automated
traffic law violation notices on the date or dates such notices were issued; or
      2.   The person has paid the fine and/or penalty for the ten (10) or more
violations or five (5) or more automated traffic law violations indicated on
the certified report.
   D.   The traffic compliance officer shall render a determination within
fourteen (14) business days of receipt of the objection form and shall notify
the objector of the determination. (Ord. 09-2536, 4-27-2009)
7-5-12: IMMOBILIZATION, TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Any motor vehicle whose registered owner has been determined to be
liable for five (5) or more vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation
or automated traffic law violations, for which the fines or penalties assessed
remain unpaid, may be immobilized or towed and impounded if:
      1.   The traffic compliance officer has determined that a person has been
determined to be liable for five (5) or more vehicular standing, parking,
compliance regulation or automated traffic law violations, the fines or
penalties for which remain unpaid.
      2.   The person determined to be liable for five (5) or more violations
is the registered owner of a motor vehicle located within the village
geographical boundaries.
      3.   A pretowing notice has been sent to the registered owner of the
motor vehicle located within the geographical boundaries of the village which
contains, but shall not be limited to, the following:
         a.   That a final determination has been made on five (5) or more
vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic law
violations, the fines and penalties for which remain unpaid.
         b.   A listing of the violations for which the person has been
determined to be liable, which shall include for each violation:
            (1)   The vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation or
automated traffic law violation notice number.
            (2)   Date of issuance.
            (3)   Total amount of fine(s) and penalty(ies) assessed.
         c.   That the motor vehicle(s) owned by the person and located within
the village is subject to immobilization and/or towing and impoundment if the
fines and penalties are not paid within fourteen (14) days of the date of the
notice.
         d.   That the registered owner may contest the validity of the notice
by fully completing and signing the request for hearing portion of one notice
and by filing the request for hearing with the traffic compliance officer
within, but not later than, fourteen (14) days of the date of the notice. The
request for hearing shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the traffic
compliance officer.
      4.   The registered owner of the motor vehicle(s) to whom notice is sent
has failed to make payment of the fines or penalties as specified in the notice
and no timely request for hearing has been filed with the traffic compliance
officer to contest the validity of the notice.
      5.   Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity
of the notice of impending immobilization or towing and impoundment, the
traffic compliance officer shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest
the validity of said notice, by disproving liability for the unpaid final
determinations of parking, standing, compliance regulation or automated traffic
law violation liability listed on the notice, on the next available hearing
date, but in no case shall the hearing be scheduled later than sixty (60) days
after the request for hearing is filed.
         a.   The traffic compliance officer shall serve notice of the hearing
date upon the registered owner.
         b.   Notice shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the
address as is set forth on the request for hearing.
         c.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed
in the United States mail.
   B.   The registered owner of a vehicle(s) immobilized or towed and impounded
under this section shall have the right to a prompt administrative hearing
without the requirement of payment of outstanding fines and penalties for which
final determination has been made.
      1.   The traffic compliance officer shall serve a posttowing notice upon
the registered owner of a vehicle immobilized or towed and impounded under this
section which notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         a.   Date of immobilization or towing and date of impoundment.
         b.   Location of vehicle.
         c.   That the vehicle was immobilized under this section for
nonpayment of fines or penalties assessed for the violation of five (5) or more
violations of vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation(s) or
automated traffic law violations for which the registered owner has been
determined liable and notified of impending immobilization or towing and
impoundment.
         d.   Date of notice of impending immobilization or towing and
impoundment.
         e.   That the registered owner may contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment by completing and signing the request
for hearing portion of the notice and filing the request for hearing with the
traffic compliance officer within, but not later than, fourteen (14) days of
the date of the notice which shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the traffic
compliance officer.
      2.   Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity
of the immobilization or towing and impoundment, the traffic compliance officer
shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment on the next available hearing date or
if sooner scheduled by the traffic compliance officer for good cause shown, but
in no case shall the hearing be scheduled later than sixty (60) days after the
request for hearing is filed.
         a.   The traffic compliance officer shall serve notice of the hearing
date upon the registered owner.
         b.   Notice shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the
address as is set forth on the request for hearing.
         c.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed
in the United States mail.
      3.   An order entered after the hearing to contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment is a final administrative decision
within the meaning of 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.,
incorporated herein by reference.
   C.   A vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall be released to the
registered owner thereof, or his agent, upon payment of the fines and penalties
due and owing the village as specified in the notice sent in accordance with
subsection A3 of this section and the payment of towing charges and accrued
daily impound charges or upon order of the hearing officer following the
hearing contesting the validity of the impoundment.
   D.   The traffic compliance officer shall appoint or retain the services of
an individual agency or company to tow and impound vehicles in accordance
herewith, provided:
      1.   The individual, agency or company is fully licensed according to
local and state law.
      2.   The individual, agency or company is fully insured.
      3.   The individual, agency or company has available a secured impound
area within which to retain vehicles impounded hereunder. For the purpose of
this section, a "secured area" shall mean an area bounded by a fence, chainlink
or otherwise, of a sufficient height and with locking gates so as to minimize
or prevent unauthorized entry into the impounded vehicles. (Ord. 09-2536, 4-27-
2009)
7-5-13: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Judicial review of final determinations of vehicular standing, parking,
compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s) and final
administrative decisions issued after hearing(s) regarding vehicle
immobilization or towing and impoundment made under this chapter shall be
subject to the provisions of the administrative review law as is set forth in
735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq., incorporated herein by
reference. (Ord. 09-2536, 4-27-2009)
7-5-14: DEBT TO THE VILLAGE:
Any fine, penalty or part of any fine or any penalty assessed in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and remaining unpaid after the exhaustion
of, or the failure to exhaust, administrative remedies created under this
chapter and the conclusion of any judicial review procedures shall be a debt
due and owing the village and, as such, may be collected in accordance with the
applicable law. Payment in full of any fine or penalty resulting from a
standing, parking, compliance or automated traffic law violation shall
constitute a final disposition of that violation. (Ord. 09-2536, 4-27-2009)
7-5-15: JUDGMENT:
   A.   The traffic compliance officer shall, following the expiration of the
period within which administrative or judicial review may be sought for a final
determination of violation, take all necessary action(s), execute all required
documents and appoint or retain any individual or agency deemed appropriate to
obtain a judgment against and collect monies from the person(s) who has been
assessed fines or penalties which remain unpaid and have become a debt due and
owing the village in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 by:
      1.   Filing a complaint in the circuit court praying for the entry of a
judgment against the person for whom a final determination of standing,
parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s) liability
has been made.
      2.   The complaint filed by the traffic compliance officer or individual
or agency on behalf of the village seeking entry of a judgment against an
individual for unpaid fines and/or penalties pursuant to a final determination
of standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation
(s) shall have appended:
         a.   A certified copy of the final determination of the standing,
parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s).
         b.   A certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the
final determination of standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated
traffic law violation(s) was issued in accordance with this chapter and 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3.
      3.   Nothing shall prevent the village from consolidating multiple final
determinations of standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic
law violation(s) liability in an action in the circuit court against an
individual.
      4.   Pursuing all available remedies, allowed by law, to collect money
judgments.
   B.   Service of summons and a copy of the complaint may be served upon the
person against whom a judgment is sought under the provisions of this chapter
by any method provided under 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/2-203,
incorporated herein by reference, or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, provided the total amount of fines and penalties for final
determination of standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic
law violation(s) does not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
(Ord. 09-2536, 4-27-2009)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLES, LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES, LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC SCOOTERS, AND
PERSONAL MOBILITY DEVICES
SECTION
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Effect Of Regulations
7-6-3: Registration Requirements
7-6-4: Records Kept
7-6-5: Inspection
7-6-6: Evidence Of Registration
7-6-7: Transfer Of Ownership
7-6-8: Bicycle Dealers And Rental Agencies
7-6-9: Traffic Laws Applicable
7-6-10: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
7-6-11: Riding Rules For Bicycles, Low-Speed Electric Bicycles, Low-Speed
Electric Scooters, And Personal Mobility Devices
7-6-12: Parking Bicycles
7-6-13: Equipment
7-6-14: Fines And Penalties
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE: A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and
an electric motor of less than seven hundred fifty (750) watts, and that meets
the requirements of one (1) of the three (3) classifications set forth in
Section 1-140.10 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-140.10).
LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC SCOOTER: A device weighing less than one hundred (100)
pounds, with two (2) or three (3) wheels, handlebars, and a floorboard that can
be stood upon while riding, that is solely powered by an electric motor and
human power, and whose maximum speed, with or without human propulsion, is no
more than ten (10) miles per hour. "Low-speed electric scooter" does not
include a moped or motor-driven cycle.
PERSONAL MOBILITY DEVICE: An electric-powered or electric-assisted device
designed to transport only one (1) person on a seated conveyance with three (3)
or four (4) wheels, with an electric propulsion system of less than seven
hundred fifty (750) watts and that limits the maximum speed of the device to
fifteen (15) miles per hour or less, as a mobility aid to an individual with a
disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-2: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Violation: It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden
or fail to perform any act required in this Chapter.
   B.   Responsibility Of Parent or Guardian: The parent of any child and the
guardian of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Scope Of Provisions: These regulations, applicable to bicycles, low-
speed electric bicycles, low speed electric scooters. and personal mobility
devices, shall apply whenever a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low speed
electric scooter and personal mobility device is operated upon any roadway,
sidewalk, or any path set aside for pedestrians or bicycle use within the
Village subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-3: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration Of Low-Speed Electric Bicycles Required: Low-speed
electric bicycles owned by residents of the Village and operated within the
Village limits shall be registered with the Department of Law Enforcement
Services.
   B.   Application For Registration; Fee: Application for low-speed electric
bicycles registration shall be made by the owner thereof to the Department of
Law Enforcement Services on a form provided by the Department. Such application
shall be accompanied by a registration fee of one dollar ($1.00).
   C.   Issue Of Registration; Restrictions: Upon receipt of a proper
application, the Department of Law Enforcement Services is authorized to affix
to the bicycle evidence of registration, which shall be effective until
ownership of the bicycle is transferred. The Department of Law Enforcement
Services shall not issue a license for any low-speed electric bicycles when it
knows or has reasonable grounds to believe that the applicant is not the owner
of such low-speed electric bicycles.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-4: RECORDS KEPT:
   The Department of Law Enforcement Services shall keep a record of each
registration by number, the date issued, the name and address of the person to
whom issued, the identification number of the low-speed electric bicycles
registered, and the make and color of such low-speed electric bicycles.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-5: INSPECTION:
   The Department of Law Enforcement Services may inspect each low-speed
electric bicycle before registering the same. The evidence of registration
shall be issued for all low-speed electric bicycles that are inspected,
notwithstanding noncompliance with the equipment requirements of these
regulations or other applicable law, but the Department of Law Enforcement
Services may notify the owner, parent or guardian of such deficiencies in
equipment.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-6: EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION:
   As evidence of the registration of a low-speed electric bicycle, the
Department of Law Enforcement Services shall either stamp or tag the
registration number assigned to the low-speed electric bicycle in an
appropriate place on the bicycle. No person shall remove, deface or destroy
such stamp or tag, except upon transfer of ownership. If a registration stamp
or tag is inadvertently defaced or destroyed, the Department of Law Enforcement
Services, upon satisfactory proof thereof and upon payment of the cost of
replacement, shall affix a duplicate stamp or tag.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-7: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP:
   Upon transfer of ownership of a low-speed electric bicycle, the new owner
shall report such change of ownership to the Department of Law Enforcement
Services with such proof of change of ownership as may be required by the
Department. which shall then record such change of ownership in the
Department's records. Such change of ownership shall be made upon payment of a
one dollar ($1.00) fee.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-8: BICYCLE DEALERS AND RENTAL AGENCIES:
   A.   Dealers: Every person engaged in the business of buying or selling new
or secondhand low-speed electric bicycles shall make a report to the Department
of Law Enforcement Services of every bicycle purchased or sold by such dealer,
giving the name and address of the person from whom purchased or to whom sold,
a description of such bicycle by name or make, the frame number and the number
of the license tag, if any, found.
   B.   Rental Agencies: A rental agency shall not rent or offer any low-speed
electric bicycle for rent unless the bicycle is licensed and a license tag is
attached thereto as provided herein and such low-speed electric bicycle is
equipped with the lamps and other equipment required in this Chapter.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-9: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE:
   A.   Every person riding a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle. low-speed
electric scooter or personal mobility device upon a roadway shall be granted
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by the laws of this State declaring rules of the road
applicable to vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of this Village applicable
to the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this Title and
except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can
have no application. Personal mobility devices are prohibited from being
operated in the roadway except when necessary to cross a street at a designated
crosswalk or where sidewalks are not available.
   B.   Operators of a Class 3 Low-Speed Electric Bicycle must be at least
sixteen (16) years of age in accordance with the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code,
65 ILCS 5/11-1517(h).
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-10: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low speed
electric scooter, and/or personal mobility device shall obey the instructions
of official traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable
to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right turn or
left turn or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle, low-speed
electric bicycle, low speed electric scooter, or personal mobility device shall
disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from
the bicycle to make any such turn, in which event such person then must obey
the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-11: RIDING RULES FOR BICYCLES, LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES, LOW-SPEED
ELECTRIC SCOOTERS, AND PERSONAL MOBILITY DEVICES:
   A.   Riding On Seats Required: No operator of a bicycle, low-speed electric
bicycle, or personal mobility device shall ride thereon otherwise than upon the
regular, permanent seat attached thereto, nor carry any other person thereon
except upon a regular permanent seat firmly attached thereto at the rear of the
operator. No passenger shall ride on any bicycle except upon such regular
permanent seat.
   B.   Speed: No person shall operate a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle,
low-speed electric scooter, or personal mobility device at a speed greater than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing, at greater speeds
than allowed by the definitions of such device in this Chapter, and in
accordance with the Rules of the Road applicable to vehicles or by the traffic
ordinances of this Village applicable to the driver of a vehicle.
   C.   Number Of Persons: No bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed
electric scooter, and personal mobility device shall be used to carry more
persons than the number for which it is designed or equipped.
   D.   Ride To The Right: Every person operating a bicycle or low-speed
electric bicycle, low-speed electric scooter, or personal mobility device upon
a roadway shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable.
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction.
   E.   Emerging From Alley Or Driveway: The operator of a bicycle, low-speed
electric bicycle, low-speed electric scooter, or personal mobility device
emerging from an alley. driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk
or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to all
pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk area, and upon entering the public
street or roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on
said street or roadway.
   F.   Carrying Packages: No person operating a bicycle or low-speed electric
bicycle, low speed electric scooter, or personal mobility device shall carry
any package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least
one hand upon the handlebars.
   G.   Location Restrictions:
      1.   Business District: No person shall ride a bicycle or low-speed
electric bicycle, low-speed electric scooter, or personal mobility device,
except for other personal mobility devices and aids used due to a disability as
defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act, upon the sidewalks in the
Business District of the Village bounded by the 200 Block of Hillgrove Avenue
to the 1500 block of Hillgrove Avenue, the 200 block of Burlington Avenue to
the 1500 block of Burlington Avenue, the 4400 and 4500 blocks of Lawn Avenue
and the 4400 and 4500 blocks of Grand Avenue.
      2.   Yield To Pedestrians: The operator of a bicycle, low-speed electric
bicycle, low-speed electric scooter or personal mobility device, when riding
upon the sidewalk, shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian, shall give
audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian, and, if possible,
shall dismount and walk past any pedestrian.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-12: PARKING BICYCLES:
   A.   General Parking Restrictions: No person shall park a bicycle or low-
speed electric bicycle, low-speed electric scooter, or personal mobility device
within the Business District other than in a rack to support the bicycle or in
a designated area. No person shall park a bicycle or low-speed electric
bicycle, low-speed electric scooter or personal mobility device in any way that
obstructs vehicle traffic or pedestrian traffic.
   B.   Removal Of Parked Bicycles: No person shall remove or in any manner
interfere with any bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed electric
scooter or personal mobility device which is properly parked as provided by
this Chapter; except that Village staff such as members of the Department of
Law Enforcement Services or the Department of Fire and lnspectional Services
may, in proper cases, move or prevent the parking of any bicycle, low-speed
electric bicycle, low-speed electric scooter or personal mobility device in any
place when such action is necessary in order to safeguard persons or property.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-13: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lights: Every bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed electric
scooter and personal mobility device, when in use at nighttime, shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type which shall be visible from all distances from
fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in
front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a
red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may
be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   Horn: Every bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed electric
scooter and personal mobility device shall be equipped with a horn or other
audible signaling device, or a bell or other device in good working condition,
capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least one hundred feet
(100'); except that a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed electric
scooter and personal mobility device shall not be equipped with nor shall any
person use upon a bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed electric
scooter and personal mobility device any siren or whistle.
   C.   Brakes: Every bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, and low-speed
electric scooter shall be equipped with adequate brakes in good working
condition, which will enable the operator to make the wheels skid on dry,
level, clean pavement.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
7-6-14: FINES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty: In addition to the general penalty herein provided, any person
violating the provisions of this Chapter may have the license tag from such
person's bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed electric scooter or
personal mobility device removed for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days, or
said bicycle, low-speed electric bicycle, low-speed electric scooter or
personal mobility device may be impounded for not exceeding sixty (60) days.
   B.   Disposition: All fines and penalties collected upon conviction or upon
the forfeiture of bail of any person charged with the violation of any
provision of this Chapter shall be paid into the Village Treasury and deposited
in the General Fund.
(Ord. 25-3254, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 7
TRUCKS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, BOATS AND TRAILERS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Definitions
7-7-2: Restrictions
7-7-3: Parking And Storage (Recreational Vehicles)
7-7-4: Temporary Use Of Trailer For Office
7-7-5: Violations And Enforcement
7-7-6: Overweight And/Or Overdimension Vehicles
7-7-7: Permits For Overweight And/Or Overdimension Vehicles
7-7-8: Vehicles Prohibited On Certain Streets
7-7-9: Oversize/Overweight Vehicles Permitted On Certain Streets
7-7-10: Penalty
7-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AXLE LOAD: The total load transmitted to the road by all wheels whose centers
may be included between two (2) parallel transverse vertical planes forty
inches (40") apart extending across the full width of the vehicle.
BOATS: Every description of watercraft used or capable of being used as a means
of transportation on water except a seaplane on the water and innertubes, air
mattresses, or similar devices.
BUS 1 : Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten (10) persons.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons or
property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for
hire or not for hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
CONSTRUCTION VEHICLE: Any vehicle over ten thousand (10,000) pounds actual
weight, registered gross weight or GVWR that is required to comply with
sections 12-712 and 12-713 of the Illinois vehicle code 2  on identification
required to be displayed.
GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING (GVWR): The value specified by the manufacturer or
manufacturers as the maximum loaded weight of a single vehicle. The GVWR of a
combination of vehicles (commonly referred to as the "gross combination weight
rating" or GCWR) is the GVWR of the power unit plus the GVWR of the towed unit
or units. In the absence of a value specified by the manufacturer, GCWR is
determined by adding the GVWR of the power unit and the total weight of the
towed unit and any load on the unit.
GROSS WEIGHT: The weight of a vehicle whether operated singly or in combination
without load plus the weight of the load thereon.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY: Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power and
motorized wheelchairs. For purposes of this definition, motor vehicles are
divided into two (2) divisions:
First Division: Those motor vehicles, which are designed for the carrying of
not more than ten (10) persons.
Second Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for carrying more than
ten (10) persons, those motor vehicles designed or used for living quarters,
those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight, cargo
or implements of husbandry, and those motor vehicles of the first division
remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of the second division.
PERMIT ROUTE: The route authorized by the issuing authority with proper
jurisdiction over the roadway(s) for which permission has been granted to move
a vehicle or combination of vehicles that is in itself indivisible or carrying
an indivisible load that exceeds normal dimensions or weight or a combination
thereof.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES 3 : Every camping trailer, motor home, mini-motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
Camping Trailer 4 : A trailer, not used commercially, constructed with partial
side walls which fold for towing and unfold to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational camping or travel use and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway.
Motor Home, Mini-Motor Home Or Van Camper 5 : A self-contained motor vehicle,
not used commercially, designed or permanently converted to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, with direct walk through
access to the living quarters from the driver's seat. Such vehicles must
include at least four (4) of the following:
   A.   A cooking facility with an onboard fuel source.
   B.   A gas or electric refrigerator.
   C.   A toilet with exterior evacuation.
   D.   A heating or air conditioning system with an onboard power or fuel
source separate from the vehicle engine.
   E.   A potable water supply system that includes at least a sink, faucet,
and a water tank with an exterior service supply connection.
   F.   A one hundred ten (110) to one hundred twenty five (125) volt electric
power supply.
Semitrailer: Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
Trailer 6 : Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
Travel Trailer 7 : A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway.
Truck 8 : Every motor vehicle including a road tractor or a truck tractor
designed, used, or maintained primarily for the transportation of property.
For the purposes of this chapter, "truck" shall include, but not be limited to,
"pickup trucks" and "cargo vans" in which at least one-third (1/3) of the total
vehicle length is designed, used, or maintained for the transportation of
property rather than human passengers.
Truck Camper 9 : A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, travel or camping use.
Truck Tractor: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
TANDEM AXLES: Any two (2) or more single axles whose centers are more than
forty inches (40") and not more than ninety six inches (96") apart, measured to
the nearest inch between extreme axles in the series, except as provided in
section 15-111 of the Illinois vehicle code 10  for special hauling vehicles.
VILLAGE: The village of Western Springs. (Ord. 90-1809, 11-19-1990; amd. Ord.
06-2394, 6-19-2006; Ord. 07-2453, 7-23-2007)
 
Notes
1  1. 625 ILCS 5/1-107.
2  2. 625 ILCS 5/12-712, 5/12-713.
3  1. 625 ILCS 5/1-169.
4  1. 625 ILCS 5/1-109.01.
5  2. 625 ILCS 5/1-145.01.
6  3. 625 ILCS 5/1-209.
7  4. 625 ILCS 5/1-210.01.
8  5. 625 ILCS 5/1-211.
9  1. 625 ILCS 5/1-211.01.
10 2. 625 ILCS 5/15-111.
7-7-2: RESTRICTIONS:
The parking of buses, trailers, trucks and recreational vehicles (including
"off road" motorcycles; 3- or 4- or more wheeled, all-terrain vehicles or those
running on tracks; and snowmobiles including any of these vehicles on trailers)
or boats, including boats on trailers (all of the above, for the purposes of
this chapter shall be referred to as "vehicles"), shall not be allowed in any
residential district for longer than four (4) hours except:
   A.   Parking Within Enclosed Building: Within an enclosed building which
meets the requirements of all applicable ordinances.
   B.   Parking In Rear Yard: If not within an enclosed building, then in the
rear yard of a residential lot, not closer than three feet (3') to any building
or structure or lot line.
   C.   Delivery Vehicles: For delivery vehicles engaged in loading or
unloading or vehicles parked in connection with use in current work being done
on adjoining premises. (Ord. 90-1809, 11-19-1990)
   D.   Trucks: A truck having a gross weight of eight thousand (8,000) pounds
or less which is not a commercial vehicle. (Ord. 06-2394, 6-19-2006)
7-7-3: PARKING AND STORAGE (RECREATIONAL VEHICLES):
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter:
   A.   Length Of Vehicle; Road Clearance:
      1.   No vehicle in excess of forty feet (40') in length or more than ten
feet (10') in road clearance height shall be stored or parked within the
village except for such temporary parking as provided within this section.
      2.   Vehicles in excess of twenty five feet (25') in length but not more
than forty feet (40') in length or more than ten feet (10') in road clearance
height may be stored or parked within the village if such vehicles are stored
or parked within an enclosed building which meets the requirements of all other
applicable ordinances.
      3.   Vehicles with the length of less than twenty five feet (25') and not
more than ten feet (10') in road clearance height may be stored or parked
outdoors within the village pursuant to the restrictions set forth in this
chapter and all other applicable ordinances.
   B.   Living In Parked Or Stored Vehicle Prohibited: No stored or parked
vehicle shall be occupied or used for human habitation.
   C.   Dismantled, Wrecked Vehicles To Be Enclosed: No vehicle which is in a
state of externally visible disrepair or partial construction shall be stored
or parked outdoors in a residential zone, but shall be stored or parked only
within an enclosed building meeting the requirements of all applicable
ordinances.
   D.   Temporary Side Or Front Yard Parking: A recreational vehicle may be
temporarily parked or stored in a side yard driveway or front yard driveway of
a residence for no more than forty eight (48) hours and then only for the
express purpose of loading, unloading or housekeeping tasks related to
embarking or returning from a trip 1 .
   E.   Permitted Parking Or Storage: No more than one of the following may be
stored or parked outdoors on any lot in a residential zone: a recreation
vehicle; a boat (including its trailer, if the boat is mounted thereon); or two
(2) snowmobiles, motorcycles or ATVs if both are mounted on one trailer. In no
case shall more than one such trailer be allowed. (Ord. 90-1809, 11-19-1990)
   F.   Scope: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the
passage of any truck, recreational vehicle, trailer or boat in connection with
its movement through the village or the parking of a vehicle in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 90-1809, 11-19-1990; amd. Ord.
95-1932, 2-27-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. For regulation of parking of trucks, see subsection
  7-3-2H of this title.
7-7-4: TEMPORARY USE OF TRAILER FOR OFFICE:
Where any trailer, camper or mobile home is being used temporarily as an office
during the construction of any building or buildings or other major
construction projects within the village, an application must be filed with the
department of code enforcement designating the length of time such structure is
to be used for construction purposes. Upon such application being filed, the
department of code enforcement may issue a temporary license permitting the
parking of such trailer, camper or mobile home for the period of construction.
(Ord. 90-1809, 11-19-1990; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
7-7-5: VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violations: Any person using, occupying, storing or parking any truck,
bus, trailer, recreational vehicle or boat contrary to the provisions of
sections
7-7-2 through
7-7-4 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Any recreational vehicle, boat, truck, bus or
trailer which is occupied, used, stored or parked contrary to the provisions in
sections
7-7-2 through
7-7-4 of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. (Ord. 90-
1809, 11-19-1990; amd. Ord. 07-2453, 7-23-2007)
   C.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the village manager, department of
law enforcement services and department of code enforcement to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 90-1809, 11-19-1990; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-
2064, 12-21-1998)
   D.   Waiver Of Requirements: Upon prior written request of a resident, the
village manager, or his designee, may grant a temporary waiver of the parking
restrictions in sections
7-7-2 through
7-7-4 of this chapter for a thirty (30) day period. In no case shall the
temporary waiver exceed two (2) 30-day periods within one calendar year. (Ord.
95-1932, 2-27-1995; amd. Ord. 07-2453, 7-23-2007)
7-7-6: OVERWEIGHT AND/OR OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in control of, to drive, to
park, or move on, upon or across or for the owner to cause or knowingly permit
to be parked, driven, or moved upon or across, any street or highway under the
jurisdiction of the village, any vehicle or combination of vehicles exceeding
the size, weight, and registration limitations and requirements stated in
sections 15-102 (width), 15-103 (height), 15-107 (length), and 15-111 (weight)
of the Illinois vehicle code 1  and section 3-401(d) (overweight on
registration) of the Illinois vehicle code 2 . (Ord. 08-2486, 2-25-2008)
   B.   Size and weight limitations while operating on village streets shall
not apply to fire apparatus or equipment for snow or ice removal operations
owned or operated by or for any governmental body or to implements of husbandry
temporarily operated or towed in a combination in the furtherance of a farm or
agricultural endeavor and to any vehicle or combination of vehicles operating
under the terms of a valid oversize and/or overdimension permit issued by the
village under the authority of section
7-7-7 of this chapter.
   C.   Where lower size and weight limits or other restrictions are imposed by
ordinance under authority of sections 15-111, 15-316 and 15-317 of the Illinois
vehicle code 3 , and signs indicating such limitations or restrictions are
posted, it shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or combination of vehicles
in excess of such size or weight limitations or in violation of such
restrictions.
   D.   Whenever any vehicle or combination of vehicles is operated in
violation of this section, the owner and/or driver of such vehicle shall be
deemed liable of such violation and either or both the owner and driver of such
vehicle may be prosecuted for such violation. (Ord. 07-2453, 7-23-2007)
   E.   Any person, firm or corporation who is found liable under this section
for a violation of section 15-111 or 3-401(d) of the Illinois vehicle code 4 ,
including, but not limited to, a maximum axle or gross limit specified on a
regulatory sign posted in accordance with paragraph (g) or (h) of section 15-
111, shall be fined according to the following schedule:
Weight (Pounds Fine Administrative Fee Total
  Overweight)
Weight (Pounds            Fine       Administrative Fee Total
  Overweight)
                                                      
Up to and including 2,000 $ 50.00    $ 25.00            $ 75.00
2,001 – 2,500           135.00     25.00              160.00
2,501 – 3,000           165.00     25.00              190.00
3,001 – 3,500           260.00     25.00              285.00
3,501 – 4,000           300.00     25.00              325.00
4,001 – 4,500           425.00     25.00              450.00
4,501 – 5,000           475.00     25.00              500.00
5,001 or more             See note 1 See note 1         See note 1
 
Note:
1.   For vehicles that are 5,001 or more pounds overweight, the fine shall be
computed by assessing $750.00 for the first 5,000 pounds overweight and $75.00
for each additional increment of 500 pounds overweight or fraction thereof.
Also, an administrative fee of $25.00 is added to the fine amount.
In addition, any person, firm or corporation found liable of 4 or more
violations of section 15-111 pursuant to this section within any 12 month
period shall be fined an additional amount of $2,500.00 for the fourth and each
subsequent finding of liability within the 12 month period. With regard to a
firm or corporation, a fourth or subsequent finding of liability shall mean a
fourth or subsequent finding attributable to any one employee-driver.
   F.   Any person, firm or corporation found liable under this section of any
violation of the provisions of sections 15-102, 15-103 or 15-107 of the
Illinois vehicle code 5 , shall be fined for the first or second violation not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense, and for the third and subsequent violations by the same
person, firm or corporation within a period of one year after the date of the
first offense, not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   G.   If a second division vehicle and load are operated within the village
and the required registration fees and taxes for the gross weight of the
vehicle and load have not been paid or the vehicle and load exceed the
registered gross weight for which the required fees and taxes have been paid by
two thousand one (2,001) pounds or more, the operator or owner shall be fined
as stated in subsection E of this section. For any unregistered vehicle or
vehicle displaying expired registration, no fine shall exceed the actual cost
of what the appropriate registration for that vehicle and load should have been
as established in subsection H of this section.
   H.   The following are the registration fees for vehicles and loads as set
forth below:
Gross Weight       Total Fees
In Pounds1   Class Each Fiscal
                   Year
Gross Weight           Total Fees
In Pounds1       Class Each Fiscal
                       Year
8,000 and less   B     $ 78.00
8,001 to 12,000  D     138.00
12,001 to 16,000 F     242.00
16,001 to 26,000 H     490.00
26,001 to 28,000 J     630.00
28,001 to 32,000 K     842.00
32,001 to 36,000 L     982.00
36,001 to 40,000 N     1,202.00
40,001 to 45,000 P     1,390.00
45,001 to 50,000 Q     1,538.00
50,001 to 54,999 R     1,698.00
55,000 to 59,500 S     1,830.00
59,501 to 64,000 T     1,970.00
64,001 to 73,280 V     2,294.00
73,281 to 77,000 X     2,622.00
77,001 to 80,000 Z     2,790.00
 
Note:
      1.   Including vehicle and maximum load.
Also, an administrative fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) is added to the
total fees each fiscal year.
   I.   All persons charged with a violation under this section shall post a
cash bond in an amount equal to the amount of the minimum fine established
above, plus costs in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for
administrative costs. The defendant may, in lieu of cash bond, deposit a money
order issued by a money transfer service company which has been approved by the
finance department of the village of Western Springs. The money order shall be
made payable to the village of Western Springs.
If a person who submits a bond or money order is found liable of or pleads
guilty to the offense or fails to appear for a hearing before the
administrative hearing officer, the hearing officer may order the forfeiture of
all or part of the bond or money order to the village of Western Springs.
   J.   Any violations of this section may be decided by the administrative
hearing officer as set forth in title 1, chapter 18 of this code. (Ord. 08-
2486, 2-25-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/15-102, 5/15-103, 5/15-107, 5/15-111.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/3-401(d).
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/15-111, 5/15-316, 5/15-317.
4 4. 625 ILCS 15-111, 5/3-401(d).
5 1. 625 ILCS 5/15-102, 15-103 or 15-107.
7-7-7: PERMITS FOR OVERWEIGHT AND/OR OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES:
   A.   A permit shall be required for the movement of any vehicle or
combination of vehicles with a nondivisible load on roadways and bridges within
the jurisdiction of the village which exceeds the dimensions and weights
permitted for the particular roadways to be traversed whether they be
nondesignated or designated roadways.
   B.   The village, with respect to any street or highway under its
jurisdiction, may, upon application to the village police department on forms
provided by the police department and good cause being shown therefor, issue a
special permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the
maximum specified in section
7-7-6 of this chapter. The applicant shall furnish the following information in
the special permit application:
      1.   The name and address of the owner or lessee of the vehicle.
      2.   Applicant's name.
      3.   Type of permit request, whether it be for a single trip or round
trip.
      4.   The description and registration (or the Illinois department of
transportation's (IDT) registration number or classification) of the power
unit.
      5.   Description of the object or vehicle to be moved.
      6.   The number of axles of the vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      7.   The maximum axle weights of all single, tandem or series axles.
      8.   Maximum gross weight of the vehicle.
      9.   The maximum width, length and height of the vehicle and load.
      10.   Requested routing over village streets to and from a specific
location.
   C.   For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
ONE-WAY OR SINGLE TRIP MOVEMENT: One move from the point of origin to the point
of destination. Any additional stops between the point of origin and the point
of destination are expressly prohibited. Single trip permits are effective for
seven (7) consecutive days from the date of issuance unless otherwise directed
by the police department.
ROUND TRIP MOVEMENT: Two (2) trips over the same route in opposite directions.
Round trip permits are effective for fourteen (14) consecutive days from the
date of issuance.
   D.   The owner or his or her agent shall submit an application fee based on
the below charts for a single routing which will be valid for seven (7)
calendar days or round trip routing valid for fourteen (14) calendar days.
Permits are valid only for the date periods specified on the permit and for the
specific vehicle, load and routing as established by the chief of police or
designee. No substitution of vehicle, load or routing is permitted without the
express written permission of the chief of police or his or her designee. The
permit must be carried in the vehicle to which the permit applies.
   FEE SCHEDULE1
            Fee
Permit Size Single Trip  Round Trip
                           Fee
Permit Size                Single Trip  Round Trip
                                      
Weight with load (pounds):             
   Up to 100,000        $ 50.00     $ 75.00
   100,001 - 120,000    75.00       100.00
   120,001 - 150,000    100.00      125.00
   Over 150,000         100.002     125.002
                                      
Width with load:                       
   Up to 12'            25.00       40.00
   12'1" - 13'6"        50.00       75.00
   Over 13'6"           50.002      75.002
                                      
Height with load:                      
   13'6" - 14'6"        25.00       40.00
   Over 14'6"           50.002      75.002
                                      
Length with load:                      
   Up to 100'           25.00       40.00
   Over 100'0"          50.002      75.002
 
Notes:
1.   If a vehicle requires a permit due to multiple weight and/or dimension
issues, the total fee will be based on the largest individual weight or
dimension factor only.
2.   Plus necessary and appropriate administrative, engineering and road damage
fees.
   E.   The chief of police or his or her designee is authorized to approve the
application for approved routes. Upon approval and payment of all required
fees, the police department shall issue a permit allowing passage of the
oversize and/or overweight vehicles over village streets. The permit shall be
specific and contain:
      1.   Permit number.
      2.   The dates the permit is valid.
      3.   Whether the permit is for single or round trip routing.
      4.   The description of object or vehicle to be moved.
      5.   Authorized gross weight, axle weights, width, length and height.
      6.   The authorized routing over village streets including the origin and
termination point within the village.
      7.   The fee paid.
      8.   The date and signature of the chief of police or his or her
designee.
      9.   In addition, the permit will specify general conditions that the
permittee must comply with that are consistent and reasonable for the
protection of the general public and village streets. A copy of all permits
issued will be provided to the village manager for informational purposes.
   F.   It is the duty of the permittee to read and familiarize himself or
herself with the permit provisions upon receipt. Undertaking of the permit move
is deemed prima facie evidence of acceptance of the permit and that:
      1.   The permittee is in compliance with all operation requirements;
      2.   All dimension and weight limitations specified in the permit will
not be exceeded;
      3.   All operation, registration and license requirements have been
complied with;
      4.   All financial responsibilities, obligations and other legal
requirements have been met;
      5.   The permittee assumes all liability for any and all damages or for
injury or damage to persons or to public property, including streets, bridges,
sidewalks, curbs, light poles, infrastructure in public rights of way, village
owned appurtenances, or to private property, including his or her own, or to
the object being transported, caused directly or indirectly by the
transportation or movement of vehicles and objects authorized under the permit.
The measure of liability shall be the actual cost for all repairs or
replacement of property damaged by permittee; and
      6.   Permittee agrees to and shall indemnify and hold harmless the
village and its appointed and elected officials, officers, president and board
of trustees, engineers, attorneys, volunteers, agents, or employees, from any
and all suits, claims, damages, costs, judgments, settlements, or proceedings
of any kind, arising from physical injuries, including loss of life, or damage
to or loss of property related to acts or omissions by permittee, its officers,
agents, or employees, pursuant to the permit or arising from the movement
authorized by the permit.
   G.   The permit shall be carried in the vehicle to which the permit applies
at all times while operating on streets within the village and shall be
exhibited upon demand to any law enforcement officer, police officer or
authorized official of the village.
   H.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of a
village permit, whether it be by size, weight or general provisions, either or
both the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed liable for such
violation and either or both the owner or the driver of such vehicle may be
prosecuted for such violation.
   I.   The permits issued under this section constitute the grant of a
privilege by the village and may be denied, suspended or revoked for such
reasons as the village may deem rationally related to its governmental
interests, including, but not limited to:
      1.   A permittee knowingly providing incorrect information on an
application for a permit;
      2.   A permittee, its agents or employees acting on a permit which has
been altered;
      3.   Noncompliance by permittee, its agents or employees with federal,
state or local laws pertaining to the transport of goods or operation of a
vehicle engaged in the transportation of goods;
      4.   Overdue fines or fees due to the village; and
      5.   Moving on village streets without a valid permit as is required by
this section.
Suspension or revocation of a current permit shall be for the time determined
appropriate by the chief of police or his or her designee. Reinstatement may be
made upon conditions determined by the village and payment of all outstanding
settlements or judgments. The charges for reinstatement are:
Denial: No charge.
Suspended: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
Revoked: Seventy five dollars ($75.00).
   J.   Police escorts shall be required for certain vehicles and loads as
determined by the chief of police or his or her designee. The total number of
officers necessary to provide for a safe move shall be determined by the chief
of police or his or her designee. Fees for escorts shall be in addition to any
permit fees and shall be sixty five dollars ($65.00) per hour per officer
assigned with a minimum fee of one hundred thirty dollars ($130.00),
irrespective of the time or number of officers actually used. (Ord. 07-2453, 7-
23-2007)
7-7-8: VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
   A.   As provided under the authority of sections 15-111 and 15-316 of the
Illinois vehicle code 1 , it shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon any
street where the operation of that vehicle is prohibited by ordinance and where
signs of such prohibition are posted. Vehicles operating under the authority of
section 15-111 or 15-316 while utilizing village streets under "reasonable
access" rules will be considered in violation of this section if they are not
utilizing the most direct route to points of loading and unloading.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to operate any "construction vehicle", as defined
herein, on any street in the village when signs are posted on that street
prohibiting "construction vehicles". Where the chief of police, with the
approval of the village board, establishes an established truck route,
construction vehicles will utilize only those established routes to service
those areas of the village under construction.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to park a commercial motor vehicle on a
residential street while said truck is running between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day. (Ord. 07-2453, 7-
23-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/15-111, 5/15-316.
7-7-9: OVERSIZE/OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES PERMITTED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
   A.   As provided under the authority of subsection 15-111(f) of the Illinois
vehicle code 1 , the village reserves the right to designate streets and/or
highways under the village's jurisdiction as class II designated streets.
Vehicles utilizing those as such can be of a weight, length and width
consistent with sections 15-102 (width), 15-107 (length) and 15-111 (weight).
The following streets and/or highways are hereby designated as class II
designated streets: None.
   B.   The superintendent of public works is authorized and directed to post
or cause to be posted, streets designated as class II truck routes as governed
by subsection A of this section. (Ord. 07-2453, 7-23-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/15-111(f).
7-7-10: PENALTY:
In addition to any penalties provided for elsewhere in this chapter, any
person, firm or corporation who or which violates, disobeys, neglects, fails to
comply with or resists enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each calendar day a violation occurs. Local ordinance violations
under this chapter may be prosecuted in the Cook County circuit court or
through the village's administrative adjudication program as directed by the
village manager. (Ord. 07-2453, 7-23-2007; amd. Ord. 08-2486, 2-25-2008)
In addition to seeking a fine, as hereinabove provided, the village attorney
may institute any proper action in the name of the village of Western Springs
to enjoin the violation of any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 07-2453, 7-23-
2007)
CHAPTER 8
SKATES, SKATEBOARDS AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-8-1: Riding Rules; Roadway
7-8-2: Riding Rules; Business Districts
7-8-3: Ramps And Jumps
7-8-4: Railroad Platforms
7-8-5: Parental Responsibility
7-8-6: Violations
7-8-7: Penalty
7-8-1: RIDING RULES; ROADWAY:
Any person upon skates, skateboard or similar device (herein a skater) shall
when operating upon a roadway be subject to regulations as provided in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1007 "Pedestrians Walking on Highways":
   A.   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any skater to skate along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where a sidewalk is not available, any skater who is skating along and
upon a highway shall skate only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   C.   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any skater who is
skating along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of a roadway, and if on a two- way roadway, shall skate only on
the left side of the roadway.
   D.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, any skater upon a roadway
shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway. (Ord. 97-1995,
2-24-1997)
7-8-2: RIDING RULES; BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
Any person upon skates, skateboard or similar device when operating such device
on the sidewalks in any business district shall exercise due caution regarding
pedestrians on the sidewalk. (Ord. 97-1995, 2-24-1997)
7-8-3: RAMPS AND JUMPS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate, ride upon or propel a
skateboard, skates or, similar device on or over any jumping device, or ramp or
similar structure, upon any public sidewalk, street or roadway, or public right
of way, not designated for such use by Village officials. (Ord. 97-1995, 2-24-
1997)
7-8-4: RAILROAD PLATFORMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate, ride upon, or propel a
skateboard, skates or similar device on any railroad platform or other railroad
property or where posted signs prohibit such activity. (Ord. 97-1995, 2-24-
1997)
7-8-5: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any provisions of this Chapter.
Any parent or guardian knowingly authorizing or permitting a violation shall
upon conviction thereof be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions provided in Section
7-8-7 of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-1995, 2-24-1997)
7-8-6: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or obstruct any police officer in
the enforcement of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-1995, 2-24-1997)
7-8-7: PENALTY:
The penalty for the violation of any section of this Chapter shall not be less
than fifteen dollars ($15.00), nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00),
for each offense. (Ord. 97-1995, 2-24-1997)
CHAPTER 9
ABANDONED, INOPERABLE, HAZARDOUS AND UNLAWFUL VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-9-1: Definitions
7-9-2: Unlawful Use Or Abandonment; Nuisance Declared; Removal Authorized
7-9-3: Authorization For Vehicle Towing, Impoundment And Disposal
7-9-4: Temporary Custody By Nonowner; Removal By Towing Service
7-9-5: Towing Hazardous Or Unlawful Vehicles
7-9-6: Towing Abandoned Or Inoperable Vehicles
7-9-7: Post-Tow Notice
7-9-8: Post-Tow Appeal
7-9-9: Procedures For Release Of Towed Vehicles
7-9-10: Disposition Of Towed Or Impounded Vehicles
7-9-11: Obtaining Ownership Information
7-9-12: Exemption From Civil Liability
7-9-13: Penalties
7-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of interpretation and enforcement of this chapter, the
following terms shall have the meanings stated in this section. Any term not
defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in other sections
of this code or ordinances of the village, and, if not defined therein, such
term shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Illinois vehicle code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq.
ABANDONED VEHICLE: A vehicle (other than a hazardous or unlawful vehicle)
which:
   A.   Is in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being
driven in its condition; or
   B.   Does not have a current, annual state vehicle license purchased for it
and attached thereto (except vehicles for sale by new and used motor vehicle
dealers and vehicle repair shops); and
   C.   Has not been moved or used for seven (7) consecutive days or more and
is apparently deserted.
   D.   Notwithstanding the above, no vehicle housed on a continuing basis in
an enclosed building (except when actual work is being done on the vehicle)
shall be considered an abandoned vehicle.
DIRECTOR OF LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICES: Police chief of the Western Springs
police department.
HAZARDOUS VEHICLE:
   A.   A vehicle which has been involved in an accident and is disabled or
cannot be immediately moved by the owner or operator of the vehicle.
   B.   A vehicle which presents an immediate danger to the health or welfare
of the public.
   C.   A vehicle abandoned or disabled on a public street, way, or alley which
impedes the orderly flow of traffic or poses potential danger to pedestrians or
other operators of vehicles.
   D.   A vehicle which must be moved to allow for proper municipal snow
removal from a public street, way or alley.
HIGHWAY, ROADWAY OR STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of
every right of way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or
on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own motor power. "Inoperable Motor Vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle
which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own
motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the village or any village- owned real or
personal property within or outside the corporate limits which is not a
highway, roadway or street.
REGISTERED OWNER: The person or entity recorded with the Illinois secretary of
state as the vehicle owner or listed in the registry of motor vehicles of
another state, or, if after diligent search no such person or entity can be
located, then the owner of the property on which the vehicle is located, if on
private property.
UNLAWFUL VEHICLE:
   A.   A vehicle which has been reported stolen or is the subject of a search
and seized by the police department or other law enforcement agency.
   B.   A vehicle which was operated by a person placed under lawful arrest for
violation of any statute or local ordinance and who by reason of the arrest is
unable to operate the vehicle.
   C.   A vehicle parked in violation of state statutes or village ordinances
which prohibit parking at the location in question or for the period of time
for which the vehicle has been parked, and where either the statute or the
ordinance authorizes the vehicle to be towed and the signs posted at or near
the general location in question note that fact.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, truck trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon. "Vehicle"
includes trailers designed to be pulled by a propelled device. (Ord. 00-2156,
12-18-2000)
7-9-2: UNLAWFUL USE OR ABANDONMENT; NUISANCE DECLARED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Maintenance And Use Illegal: It shall be unlawful for any person to
allow or maintain an abandoned, inoperable, hazardous, or unlawful vehicle
within the village or to use or allow use of a vehicle in such a manner that
renders such vehicle an inoperable, hazardous or unlawful vehicle.
   B.   Declaration Of Public Nuisance: The village declares that abandoned,
inoperable, hazardous and unlawful vehicles are public nuisances subject to
abatement pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The outside dead storage
of any vehicle listed in section
7-3-5 of this title are public nuisances subject to abatement pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Abandonment: The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any
part thereof on any highway in the village is unlawful and subject to penalties
as set forth herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle, or
any part thereof, on private or public property, other than a highway, in view
of the general public, anywhere in the village is unlawful. A motor vehicle or
other vehicle, or any part thereof, so abandoned may be cited for violation of
this chapter or authorized for removal by or upon the order of the police chief
as provided in this chapter.
      1.   Private Property: An abandoned or inoperable vehicle on the private
property of the owner or other person legally entitled to have possession of
the vehicle (except repair shops and vehicle dealers) is declared to be a
nuisance unless continuously housed in an enclosed building except when actual
repair work is being performed, and is subject to citation for violation of
this chapter and/or removal to abate the nuisance, by the procedures described
in this chapter. Unless the vehicle constitutes a health or safety hazard, the
village shall not authorize towing of any vehicle of an owner known to be out
of town continuously during the notice procedure outlined above. The provisions
of this chapter shall not apply to any motor vehicle that is kept within a
building when not in use, to any operable historic vehicles over twenty five
(25) years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place or business
engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
      2.   Other Relief: The village may use any other available remedies,
ordinances or statutory procedures against the registered owner to abate the
nuisance. A complaint may be filed in the circuit court for violating the
provisions of this chapter, in lieu of or in addition to the provisions of this
chapter for citation or abating the nuisance by towing.
   D.   Prohibition Of Wrecked, Discarded Or Abandoned Vehicles: No person in
charge or control of any property other than village property within the
village, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow
any dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked, discarded or abandoned vehicle
to remain on such property longer than seven (7) days or on village property
within or outside the corporate limits for a longer time than forty eight (48)
hours; except that this section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an
enclosed building; a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated
in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such
business enterprise; or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the village. (Ord. 00-2156, 12-18-
2000)
7-9-3: AUTHORIZATION FOR VEHICLE TOWING, IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSAL:
The police department, and any other duly authorized agents or forces of the
village, are hereby authorized to tow, impound, and dispose of abandoned,
inoperable, hazardous and unlawful vehicles pursuant to the procedures set
forth in this chapter. A vehicle that is towed pursuant to this chapter shall
be impounded only at a facility approved by the police chief and shall be
impounded only until lawfully released or disposed of pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter and applicable state statutes. (Ord. 00-2156, 12-18-
2000)
7-9-4: TEMPORARY CUSTODY BY NONOWNER; REMOVAL BY TOWING SERVICE:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this state, not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the police
department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the village. Upon
receipt of such notification, the police chief shall authorize a towing and
impoundment service operator to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
operator will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record
of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person
legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter and applicable state statutes. (Ord. 00-2156,
12-18-2000)
7-9-5: TOWING HAZARDOUS OR UNLAWFUL VEHICLES:
   A.   Notice; Procedures: Any hazardous or unlawful vehicle may be towed
without notice to its registered owner; however, notice and an opportunity for
a hearing on the appropriateness of the tow must be provided to the registered
owner of the vehicle within twenty four (24) hours of the tow in accordance
with section
7-9-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 00-2156, 12-18-2000)
7-9-6: TOWING ABANDONED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES:
   A.   Pre-Tow Notice; Procedures: At least twenty one (21) days before the
village tows an abandoned or inoperable vehicle, the police chief, or his
designee, shall cause a written "Pre-Tow Notice" to be personally delivered to
the registered owner of the vehicle or shall mail the pre-tow notice by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the
registered owner of the vehicle recorded with the Illinois secretary of state
or, if the vehicle bears a registration number of a state other than Illinois,
then to the address of the registered owner in that state's registry of motor
vehicles. The pre-tow notice shall provide the following information:
      1.   Requirement To Move And/Or Repair: A statement that, no later than
twenty one (21) days from the date of the pre-tow notice, the vehicle in
question must be moved from its improper location to a proper and lawful
location and/or repaired to a lawful condition.
      2.   Fine: A statement that if the vehicle is not moved and/or repaired
within the twenty one (21) day period, then the registered owner or other
responsible party shall be fined pursuant to section
7-9-13 of this chapter.
      3.   Tow: A statement that if the vehicle is not moved and/or repaired
within the twenty one (21) day period, then the vehicle may be towed and
impounded pursuant to this chapter without further notice.
      4.   Description Of Vehicle: A description of the make, model, year, and
color of the vehicle.
      5.   Registration And Plate Numbers: The vehicle's registration number,
and the number and state of the license plates displayed on the vehicle.
      6.   Location And Condition: The location and condition of the vehicle
that caused the village to determine that the vehicle is abandoned and/or
inoperable.
      7.   Owner Name And Address: The name and address of the registered owner
of the vehicle.
      8.   Summary Of Procedures: A summary of the procedures set forth in this
chapter relating to the towing and impoundment of abandoned and inoperable
vehicles, and the right of the registered owner to appeal.
   B.   Pre-Tow Sticker: On or before the day on which the police chief, or his
designee, personally delivers or mails the pre-tow notice pursuant to
subsection A of this section, the village shall affix a "Pre-Tow Sticker" in a
conspicuous place on the vehicle in question. The pre-tow sticker shall
prominently state the earliest date on which the village would be authorized to
tow the vehicle pursuant to this chapter and the address and telephone number
of the police department.
   C.   Pre-Tow Appeal: The registered owner of an abandoned or inoperable
vehicle may challenge the validity of a pre-tow notice by prosecuting a pre-tow
appeal pursuant to this subsection.
      1.   Initiation Of Appeal: To initiate a pre-tow appeal, the registered
owner of the vehicle in question shall deliver a written request for a pre-tow
appeal to the police chief prior to the expiration of the twenty one (21) day
period set forth in the pre-tow notice. The request for a pre-tow appeal shall
state whether a pre-tow hearing is requested and shall state the general nature
of the registered owner's defense.
      2.   Scheduling Of Hearing; Waiver: The police chief will schedule, in
consultation with the registered owner of the vehicle in question, a pre-towing
hearing within five (5) days, excluding weekends and holidays, of the police
chief receiving the request for a pre-tow appeal, or on such later day as is
mutually agreed by the parties. The registered owner shall be deemed to have
waived the right to a pre-tow appeal if the registered owner fails to appear
for the pre-tow hearing without prior notice of absence and good cause shown
therefor.
      3.   Status Of Vehicle Pending Hearing: Pending final disposition of a
pre-tow appeal, the vehicle in question shall not be towed, except pursuant to
the procedures of this chapter applicable to hazardous and unlawful vehicles.
      4.   Conduct Of Hearing; Burden: The police chief, in his discretion, may
conduct the pre-tow hearing or may appoint a hearing officer to conduct the
hearing. The enforcement officer responsible for the decision to tow the
vehicle in question shall not serve as hearing officer. The registered owner of
the vehicle must appear in person at the hearing. To invalidate the pre-tow
notice, the registered owner must submit evidence that conclusively
demonstrates that the vehicle is not an abandoned or inoperable vehicle and is
not otherwise subject to being towed pursuant to this chapter. The police chief
or hearing officer shall have the authority to require the presence of the
enforcement officer responsible for the proposed tow and any other village
personnel and to request the presence of other witnesses at the hearing.
      5.   Decision: Based on the hearing record, the police chief or hearing
officer shall issue a written decision: a) affirming the validity of the pre-
tow notice and confirming that the vehicle in question is an abandoned or
inoperable vehicle subject to towing pursuant to this chapter, or b) revoking
the pre-tow notice. The police chief or hearing officer shall deliver a copy of
the decision to the registered owner within forty eight (48) hours after the
conclusion of the pre-tow hearing. The decision of the police chief or hearing
officer on a pre-tow appeal shall be final.
      6.   Action If Affirmation: If the police chief or hearing officer
affirms the validity of a pre-tow notice and confirms that the vehicle in
question is inoperable or abandoned, then the police chief shall direct that
the vehicle be towed; provided, however, that the vehicle shall not be towed
if, within forty eight (48) hours after the police chief's or hearing officer's
decision, the registered owner or other responsible party causes the vehicle to
be moved from the improper location to a proper and lawful location and/or
causes the vehicle to be repaired to a lawful condition. If the vehicle is not
moved and/or repaired within said forty eight (48) hour period, then the
registered owner shall be fined pursuant to this section and the vehicle may be
towed immediately and without further notice. If the vehicle is towed pursuant
to this subsection, then the registered owner shall be liable for the towing
and impoundment fees.
      7.   Action If Revocation: If the police chief or hearing officer revokes
the pre-towing notice, then the police chief shall direct that the pre-tow
sticker be removed and that the vehicle not be towed. The registered owner may
display a copy of the police chief's or hearing officer's decision in the
vehicle. No vehicle about which such a decision has been rendered shall be
towed by the village unless the vehicle is otherwise subject to towing pursuant
to this chapter.
      8.   No Determination Of Violation: A pre-tow appeal and hearing shall
not be determinative of, and shall not be used or construed to adjudicate, any
other citation or violation of any village ordinance relative to the vehicle in
question.
      9.   No Appeal: If the registered owner of an abandoned or inoperable
vehicle does not initiate a pre-tow appeal pursuant to this section, then the
vehicle may be towed after the twenty one (21) day period expires without
further notice, the right to a pre-tow appeal shall be deemed to have been
waived, and the registered owner shall be subject to fine pursuant to section
7-9-13 of this chapter.
      10.   Right To Post-Tow Appeal: If a pre-tow appeal is not initiated
pursuant to this section, the registered owner of the towed vehicle shall
nevertheless have the right to a post-tow appeal pursuant to section
7-9-8 of this chapter.
   D.   Failure To Move Or Repair: Unless a pre-tow appeal is initiated
pursuant to this chapter, a vehicle subject to a pre- tow notice may be towed
by the village if it is not moved from its improper location to a proper and
lawful location or is not repaired to a lawful condition twenty one (21) days
after the police chief, or his designee, delivers or mails the pre-tow notice
in accordance with this chapter. The registered owner of a vehicle subject to a
pre-tow notice shall be fined a mandatory amount of two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each violation of this chapter, if the registered owner fails to
move the vehicle from its improper location to a proper and lawful location or
to repair the vehicle to a lawful condition within the twenty one (21) day
notice period set forth in the pre-tow notice, or, if a pre-tow appeal is
initiated, within forty eight (48) hours after the police chief or hearing
officer renders a decision affirming the validity of the pre-tow notice.
   E.   Records To Be Kept: When a vehicle is authorized to be towed under this
chapter, the police department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle
towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number, license
plate year and number, and registration sticker year and number displayed on
the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location
towed from, location towed to, reason for towing, and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow. (Ord. 00-2156, 12-18-2000)
7-9-7: POST-TOW NOTICE:
   A.   Post-Tow Notice: Except in cases where the identity of the registered
owner cannot be ascertained, within twenty four (24) hours after towing any
hazardous or unlawful vehicle pursuant to this chapter, or within seven (7)
days after towing any abandoned or inoperable vehicle pursuant to this chapter,
the police chief shall cause personal delivery to the registered owner of the
vehicle in question of a post-tow notice or shall mail the post- tow notice by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the
registered owner of the vehicle recorded with the Illinois secretary of state
or, if the vehicle bears a registration number of a state other than Illinois,
then to the address of the registered owner in that state's registry of motor
vehicles. The post-tow notice shall provide the following information:
      1.   Statement Of Towing: A statement that the vehicle has been towed
pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   Description Of Vehicle: A description of the make, model, year, and
color of the vehicle.
      3.   Registration And Plate Numbers: The vehicle's registration number,
and the number and state of the license plates displayed on the vehicle.
      4.   Location And Condition: The location and condition of the vehicle
that provided the village with authorization to tow the vehicle as an
abandoned, inoperable, hazardous, or unlawful vehicle pursuant to this chapter.
      5.   Owner Name And Address: The name and address of the registered owner
of the vehicle.
      6.   Summary Of Procedures: A summary of the procedures set forth in this
chapter relating to the towing and impoundment of vehicles, and the right of
the owner to appeal.
      7.   Release Of Vehicle: A statement that the registered owner must
secure release of the vehicle prior to appealing the tow.
   B.   Towing And Impoundment Facility Notice: Each towing and impoundment
service operator utilized by the village for purposes of towing and impounding
vehicles pursuant to this chapter shall display, in a prominent location, a
sign indicating the opportunity and procedures for appealing the validity of
the towing of any vehicle and related fines and fees. Such sign shall be placed
in a location readily visible to the public transacting business at such towing
or impoundment facility. (Ord. 00-2156, 12-18-2000)
7-9-8: POST-TOW APPEAL:
The registered owner of a towed vehicle may challenge the validity of any tow
and related fines and fees by prosecuting an appeal pursuant to this section.
   A.   Initiation Of Appeal: To initiate a post-tow appeal, the registered
owner of the towed vehicle shall deliver a written request for a "Post-Tow
Appeal" to the police chief no later than fifteen (15) days after: 1) the towed
vehicle has been released pursuant to section
7-9-9 of this chapter, or 2) the registered owner receives a post-tow notice
pursuant to section
7-9-7 of this chapter, whichever is earlier. The request for a post-tow appeal
shall state whether a post-tow hearing is requested and shall state the general
nature of the registered owner's defense.
   B.   Waiver: The registered owner of a towed vehicle shall be deemed to have
waived the right to a post-tow appeal if the registered owner fails to timely
initiate a post-tow appeal in accordance with the provisions of subsection A of
this section.
   C.   Post-Tow Hearing:
      1.   Scheduling Of Hearing; Waiver: The police chief shall schedule, in
consultation with the registered owner of the towed vehicle, a post-tow hearing
within five (5) days, excluding weekends and holidays, after the police chief
receives the request for a post-tow appeal pursuant to this section, or on such
later day as is mutually agreed by the parties. The registered owner shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a post-tow appeal if the registered owner
fails to appear for the post-tow hearing without prior notice of absence and
good cause shown therefor.
      2.   Conduct Of Hearing; Burden: The police chief may conduct the post-
tow hearing or may appoint a hearing officer to conduct the hearing. The
enforcement officer responsible for the decision to tow the vehicle shall not
serve as hearing officer. The hearing officer may be the same hearing officer
as presided over the pre- tow hearing regarding the same vehicle. The
registered owner of the vehicle must appear in person at the hearing. To
invalidate the tow, the registered owner must submit evidence that conclusively
demonstrates that the towing of the vehicle was not authorized pursuant to this
chapter or was otherwise invalid. The police chief or hearing officer shall
have the authority to require the presence of the enforcement officer who was
responsible for the tow and any other village personnel and to request the
presence of other witnesses at the hearing.
      3.   No Determination Of Violations: A post-tow appeal and hearing shall
not be determinative of, and shall not be used or construed to adjudicate, any
other citation or violation of any village ordinance relating to the vehicle in
question.
   D.   Decision On Post-Tow Appeal:
      1.   Decision: Based on the hearing record, the police chief or hearing
officer shall issue a written decision: a) affirming, in whole or in part, the
validity of the tow or any related fines and fees, or b) invalidating, in whole
or in part, the tow or any related fines and fees. The police chief shall
deliver or mail a copy of the police chief's or hearing officer's decision to
the registered owner of the vehicle in question within three (3) days after the
conclusion of the post-tow hearing. The decision of the police chief or hearing
officer on a post-tow appeal shall be final.
      2.   Action If Affirmation: If the police chief or hearing officer
affirms the validity of a tow of a vehicle that has been released pursuant to
section
7-9-9 of this chapter, then the village shall retain the amounts paid pursuant
to section
7-9-13 of this chapter. If the police chief or hearing officer affirms the
validity of the tow of a vehicle that has not been released pursuant to section
7-9-9 of this chapter, then the police chief shall include in the decision: a)
an explanation that the registered owner may secure the release of the towed
vehicle pursuant to section
7-9-9 of this chapter, and b) the total amount of fines and fees, accrued to
that date that must be paid prior to release of the vehicle in question.
      3.   Action If Invalidation: If the police chief or hearing officer
invalidates, in whole or in part the subject tow, then the village shall, in
the case of a previously released vehicle, return to the registered owner all
amounts received pursuant to section
7-9-9 of this chapter, or if the vehicle has not been released, authorize the
immediate release of the vehicle without towing and impoundment fees being
assessed against the registered owner. (Ord. 00-2156, 12-18-2000)
7-9-9: PROCEDURES FOR RELEASE OF TOWED VEHICLES:
   A.   Payment Of Expenses Of Towing And Impounding: The registered owner of
or person abandoning, parking or otherwise keeping a vehicle in violation of
the provisions of this chapter, which is towed and impounded under the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for those fees and expenses of
towing and impounding of the vehicle, which must be paid before the release of
the vehicle. The village hereby reserves the right to bring an action at law
against said violator, to collect fees or other charges assessed under this
chapter which are owed to the village. This fee shall be in addition to a fine
provided for herein for any violation of this chapter.
   B.   Requirements For Release: The registered owner of a vehicle towed
pursuant to this chapter may secure the release of the vehicle by furnishing
evidence of his or her identity and ownership or possessory right to the
vehicle, by signing a receipt for the vehicle, and by paying or causing to be
paid to the village and/or the towing and impoundment service operator the
following fine and fees:
      1.   Fine: The fine imposed pursuant to section
7-9-13 of this chapter.
      2.   Towing And Impoundment Fees: The towing and impoundment fees charged
by the towing and impoundment service operator.
   C.   Release Of Invalidation Of Tow: Notwithstanding any other provision of
this chapter to the contrary, the registered owner of a towed vehicle may
remove the vehicle without paying any fine or fee otherwise required to be paid
pursuant to this chapter if the police chief determines, on appeal or
otherwise, that the tow of the vehicle was not authorized pursuant to this
chapter or was otherwise invalid.
   D.   Taking Possession: The registered owner shall take possession of the
towed vehicle no later than twenty four (24) hours after satisfaction of the
requirements for release set forth above.
   E.   Hearing Request: After release of a towed vehicle pursuant to this
section, the registered owner of the vehicle in question may subsequently
appeal the tow and request a hearing pursuant to section
7-9-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 00-2156, 12-18-2000)
7-9-10: DISPOSITION OF TOWED OR IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
   A.   Claiming Of Vehicles: Vehicles may be claimed any time before a vehicle
is sold at public sale or disposed of as provided in this section and
applicable state law. The registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally
entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the police
department proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the
vehicle and paying of any and all fees, charges and penalties assessed.
   B.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Vehicles:
      1.   Sale: When an abandoned, inoperable, lost, stolen, or unclaimed
vehicle seven (7) years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered
owner, lienholder, or other person legally entitled to its possession for a
period of thirty (30) days after notice has been given as provided in this
section, the vehicle shall be sold at public auction to a person licensed as a
used parts dealer, rebuilder, or scrap processor under 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/5-100 et seq.
      2.   Notice: A notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted
in a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the
premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to
the sale, notice of the time and place of the sale shall be provided by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the registered owner, lienholder
or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The notice
shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps
must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle. If the
vehicle has dealer plates, notice shall also be sent to the dealer.
      3.   Returned Mail: In those instances where the certified notification
of towing specified in this section has been returned by the postal authorities
to the sender, due to the addressee having moved or being unknown at the
address obtained from the registration records of this state, the sending of a
second certified notice will not be required.
   C.   Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicles Without Notice:
      1.   When the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other
person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed
vehicle of seven (7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means
provided for in this section, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein
without notice to any interested person whose identity cannot be determined.
      2.   When a vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is impounded as
specified by this section, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten (10)
days for the purpose of determining the identity of the registered owner,
lienholder or other legally entitled persons and contacting such person by the
U.S. mail, public service, or in person for a determination of disposition, and
for the purpose of an examination of the state police stolen vehicle files for
theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten (10) day period
without the benefit of disposition information being received from the
registered owner or the lienholder, the police department may authorize the
disposal of the vehicle as junk or salvage.
      3.   A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may, however, be sold to
a person desiring to restore it.
   D.   Report Of Transaction To Be Kept: When a vehicle taken into custody as
provided herein is reclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or
otherwise disposed of as provided in this section, the police department will
cause a report of the transaction to be maintained for a period of one year
from the date of the sale or disposal.
   E.   Proceeds To Be Deposited In Treasury: When a vehicle located within the
corporate limits of this village is towed away and disposed of as set forth in
this section, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after the
deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges, shall be deposited in the
treasury of the village. (Ord. 00-2156, 12-18-2000)
7-9-11: OBTAINING OWNERSHIP INFORMATION:
   A.   When the police department cannot learn the identity of the registered
owner, lienholder, or other person legally entitled to possession of a vehicle
from village records, they will cause the vehicle registration records of the
state of Illinois to be searched by the secretary of state for the purpose of
obtaining the required ownership information.
   B.   The police department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
state police to be searched by a directed communication to the state police for
stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the state police files are
searched with negative results, the information contained in the national crime
information center files will be searched by the state police. The information
determined from these record searches will be returned to the police department
for that agency's use in sending a notification by certified mail to the
registered owner, lienholder, and other legally entitled person advising where
the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth all
required information.
   C.   Notification to the registered owner, lienholder, or other person
legally entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle shall be sent no later
than ten (10) days after the date the police department impounds or authorizes
the impoundment of a vehicle. However, if the police department is unable to
determine the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other person
legally entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle within a ten (10) day
period after impoundment, the notification shall be sent no later than two (2)
days after the date the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other
person legally entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle is determined.
   D.   When the registered owner, lienholder, or other person legally entitled
to the possession of a vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files
of this state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if applicable,
the police department shall notify the state police for the purpose of
identifying the vehicle owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the state police will be
immediately forwarded to the police department for notification purposes. (Ord.
00-2156, 12-18-2000)
7-9-12: EXEMPTION FROM CIVIL LIABILITY:
No police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall be held to
answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered owner,
former registered owner, or his legal representative, or any other person
legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the
vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter and applicable state statutes. (Ord. 00-2156, 12-18-2000)
7-9-13: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a petty offense and upon conviction thereof shall be assessed a
mandatory fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) and may be assessed such other
fines, fees or costs, as are authorized by this chapter, this code or state
law. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord.
00-2156, 12-18-2000)
CHAPTER 10
SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-10-1: Definitions
7-10-2: Public Nuisance Declared
7-10-3: Seizure And Impoundment
7-10-4: Posting A Bond
7-10-5: Preliminary Probable Cause Hearing
7-10-6: Plea Hearing/Evidentiary Hearing
7-10-7: Disposition Of Impounded Motor Vehicles
7-10-8: Applicability Of Other Laws
7-10-9: Use Of Fees Collected
7-10-10: Administrative Review
7-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, and the interpretation and enforcement
thereof, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have
the meanings given herein, unless the context in which they are used shall
indicate otherwise. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the singular number include the
plural number, and words in the plural number include the singular number. The
words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may" is permissive. Words not
defined shall be given their common and ordinary meanings.
HEARING OFFICER: An attorney licensed in the State of Illinois for a minimum of
three (3) years, who is not an officer or employee of the Village, designated
by the Village Manager.
OWNER OF RECORD: The record titleholder to a motor vehicle as registered with
the Secretary of State of the State of Illinois, or any other applicable
governmental agency. (Ord. 16-2853, 11-28-2016)
7-10-2: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
A motor vehicle, operated with the permission, express or implied, of the owner
of record, shall be declared a public nuisance and shall be subject to seizure
and impoundment under this chapter where such motor vehicle is used in the
commission of any of the violations set forth in this section or when the
commission of any of the violations set forth in this section makes impoundment
of the motor vehicle reasonably necessary as a community caretaking function so
that the motor vehicle does not jeopardize public safety and the efficient
movement of vehicular traffic. It shall not be necessary for criminal charges
to be filed, prosecuted, and/or proven in order to demonstrate that a vehicle
was subject to seizure and impoundment based on an officer having had probable
cause to believe one or more of the following violations was committed:
   A.   A violation of any of the below sections of the Illinois Vehicle Code,
as amended:
      1.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101 (drivers must have licenses
or permits), except where the violation is for a license which has been expired
for twelve (12) months or less or for a license which is invalid because of
curfew (as in the case of a graduated license);
      2.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303 (driving while driver's
license, permit or privilege to operate a motor vehicle is suspended or
revoked), except where said driver's license, permit or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended only for a violation of the emissions inspection
laws as set forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/13C-1 et seq., or for an
unpaid citation (parking or moving);
      3.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-204(c) (fleeing or attempting to
elude a peace officer), provided it is the third or subsequent offense;
      4.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-401 (motor vehicle accidents
involving death or personal injuries);
      5.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501 (driving under the influence
of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any
combination thereof);
      6.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-503(b-1) (reckless driving that
causes injury to child or crossing guard) and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-503(c-d) (aggravated reckless driving); or
      7.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-506(d)(1-2) (street racing),
provided it is a second or subsequent violation, or 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-506(d)(3) (aggravated street racing);
   B.   The stopping of a person against whom a warrant has been issued by a
Circuit Court for failing to appear to answer charges that the person was:
      1.   Operating a motor vehicle while that person's license was suspended
or revoked in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303;
      2.   Operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol,
other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination
thereof in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501; or
      3.   Operating a motor vehicle without having a valid driver's license or
permit in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101;
   C.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle to commit, or in the attempt to
commit a violation of any of the below sections of the Criminal Code of 1961,
as amended:
      1.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-6 (indecent solicitation of a
child);
      2.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14 (prostitution);
      3.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14.1 (solicitation of a sexual
act);
      4.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14.3 (promoting prostitution);
      5.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14.4 (promoting juvenile
prostitution);
      6.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-18 (patronizing a prostitute);
      7.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-18.1 (patronizing a juvenile
prostitute);
      8.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-2 (aggravated assault);
      9.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-3.05 (aggravated battery);
      10.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-1 (theft);
      11.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-2 (theft of lost or mislaid
property);
      12.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-3 (theft of labor or services
or use of property);
      13.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-5 (theft from coin operated
machine);
      14.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-18 (tampering with
communication services; theft of communication services);
      15.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-25 (retail theft);
      16.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18-1 (robbery);
      17.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18-2 (armed robbery);
      18.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/19-1 (burglary);
      19.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/19-3 (residential burglary);
      20.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-1 (arson);
      21.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-1.1 (aggravated arson);
      22.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-2 (possession of explosives or
explosive or incendiary devices);
      23.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-1 (criminal damage to
property);
      24.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1 (unlawful use of weapons);
      25.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.1 (unlawful use or possession
of weapons by felons);
      26.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.2 (aggravated discharge of a
firearm);
      27.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.2-5 (aggravated discharge of
a machine gun or firearm equipped with a device designed or used for silencing
the report of a firearm);
      28.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.5 (reckless discharge of a
firearm);
      29.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.6 (aggravated unlawful use of
a weapon);
      30.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-2.1 (unlawful use of firearm
projectiles);
      31.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-2.2 (manufacture, sale, or
transfer of bullets or shells represented to be armor piercing bullets,
dragon's breath shotgun shells, bolo shells, or flechette shells);
      32.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3 (unlawful sale of firearms);
      33.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.1 (unlawful possession of
firearms and firearm ammunition);
      34.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.2 (unlawful discharge of
firearm projectiles);
      35.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.3 (unlawful sale or delivery
of firearms on the premises of any school);
      36.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.4 (unlawful sale or delivery
of firearms by liquor licensee);
      37.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.5 (unlawful purchase of a
firearm);
      38.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.6 (unlawful use of a firearm
in the shape of a wireless telephone);
      39.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3A (gunrunning);
      40.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3A-2 (armed violence);
      41.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1 (mob action); or
      42.   The motor vehicle is otherwise subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1 (seizure);
   D.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle to:
      1.   Commit, or attempt to commit a violation of the Cannabis Control
Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.;
      2.   Commit, or attempt to commit a violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100 et seq.; or
      3.   Solicit, possess, or attempt to solicit or possess cannabis or a
controlled substance, as defined by the Cannabis Control Act, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.; or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100 et seq. (Ord. 16-2853, 11-28-2016)
7-10-3: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Probable Cause; Removal: Whenever a police officer has probable cause
to believe that a motor vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant
to this chapter, the police officer shall cause the motor vehicle to be removed
or towed to a facility authorized by the Village. When the motor vehicle is
removed or towed, the police officer shall notify, or make a reasonable attempt
to notify, any person identifying himself or herself as the owner of record or
lessee of the motor vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of the
motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation(s), if there is such a
person, of the fact of the seizure, the motor vehicle owner of record or
lessee's right to request a preliminary hearing, and the right to a plea and
evidentiary hearing as provided in this chapter. The Village shall also provide
notice that the motor vehicle shall be impounded pending the completion of the
hearings provided for in this chapter, unless the owner of record or lessee of
the motor vehicle, or a lien holder of record of the motor vehicle, posts with
the Village a cash bond and pays all towing and storage fees, as set forth in
section
7-10-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Removal By Third Party: A police officer who has probable cause to
believe that a motor vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to
this chapter shall first ascertain whether the seizure and impoundment is
necessary and reasonable under the circumstances. If in the judgment of the
police officer then present, a person authorized by the owner of record, lessee
or the operator of the motor vehicle is present and capable to provide for the
lawful immediate removal of the motor vehicle, and said motor vehicle is not
required to be held as evidence in regard to the violation, the police officer
shall allow that individual to promptly remove the motor vehicle without it
being subject to seizure and impoundment if seizure and impoundment of the
motor vehicle is contemplated pursuant to section
7-10-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 16-2853, 11-28-2016)
7-10-4: POSTING A BOND:
If a bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) is posted with the
Village, the impounded motor vehicle shall be released to the owner of record,
lessee or any lien holder, upon the payment by the owner of record, lessee or
any lien holder of the towing and storage costs to the applicable towing
company. If an administrative fee is imposed pursuant to section
7-10-6 of this chapter, the bond shall be applied to said fee; provided, in the
event that a violation of this chapter is not proven, the bond shall be
returned to the person posting the bond. All bond money posted pursuant to this
section shall be held by the Village until a Hearing Officer issues a decision,
or, if there is judicial review pursuant to section
7-10-10 of this chapter, until a reviewing court issues a final decision. (Ord.
16-2853, 11-28-2016)
7-10-5: PRELIMINARY PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING:
Where the owner of record or lessee of a motor vehicle seized under the
provisions of this chapter makes a request, in writing and filed with the
Director of Law Enforcement Services or the Director's designee, for a
preliminary probable cause hearing within twenty four (24) hours after the
seizure of the motor vehicle, the Director of Law Enforcement Services or the
Director's designee must conduct a preliminary probable cause hearing within
forty eight (48) hours after the request for a preliminary probable cause
hearing is received by the Village; provided that if the date for the
preliminary probable cause hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the preliminary probable cause hearing will be held on the next
business day following the Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. For purposes of
this section, the following shall apply:
   A.   All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the preliminary probable cause hearing.
   B.   The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the preliminary
probable cause hearing, and hearsay testimony shall be allowed, and shall be
admissible.
   C.   If, after the conclusion of the preliminary probable cause hearing, the
Director of Law Enforcement Services or the Director's designee determines that
there is probable cause to believe that the motor vehicle was used as provided
in section
7-10-2 of this chapter, the Director of Law Enforcement Services or the
Director's designee shall order the continued impoundment of the motor vehicle,
unless the owner of record or lessee of the motor vehicle posts a cash bond
with the Village in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00), and pays the
towing and storage costs to the applicable tow company, as set forth in section
7-10-4 of this chapter.
   D.   If the Director of Law Enforcement Services or the Director's designee
determines that there is not probable cause to believe that the motor vehicle
was used as provided in section
7-10-2 of this chapter, the motor vehicle shall be returned to the owner of
record or lessee of the motor vehicle without any fees or other costs, but the
owner of record or lessee shall be responsible to pay any towing or storage
charges to the applicable tow company. (Ord. 16-2853, 11-28-2016)
7-10-6: PLEA HEARING/EVIDENTIARY HEARING:
   A.   Notice Of Hearing: Within ten (10) days after a motor vehicle is
impounded pursuant to this chapter, the Village shall notify the owner of
record or lessee and any lien holder of the date, time and location of a plea
hearing that shall be conducted, pursuant to this section. Such notice shall be
by certified mail, return receipt requested, or first class mail, to the owner
of record, or lessee and any lien holders, as shown on the records of the
Illinois Secretary of State. Notice by mail need not be given when the owner of
record or lessee and any lien holder of the motor vehicle has been personally
served with notice, in written form, of the time, date and location of the plea
hearing.
   B.   Hearing; General: The plea hearing shall be conducted by a Hearing
Officer, designated by the Village Manager. The owner of record or lessee shall
appear at a plea hearing and enter a plea of guilty or not guilty. If a plea of
guilty is entered, or if the owner of record or lessee fails to appear, the
cause shall be disposed of at that time, with an order/default order in favor
of the Village, which order/default order shall require the payment to the
Village of a five hundred dollar ($500.00) administrative fee and towing and
storage costs to the applicable tow company, and the continued impoundment of
the motor vehicle until the five hundred dollar ($500.00) administrative fee
and towing and storage costs are paid to the Village and applicable towing
company, respectively. If the owner of record or lessee pleads not guilty, an
evidentiary hearing shall be scheduled and held no later than forty five (45)
days after the date of mailing of notice of the hearing, unless continued by
the Hearing Officer. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to be heard at the evidentiary hearing. At any time prior to the
evidentiary hearing date, the Hearing Officer may, at the request of either the
Village, the owner of record or lessee, direct witnesses to appear and give
testimony at the evidentiary hearing. The formal rules of evidence shall not
apply at the evidentiary hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be admissible.
   C.   Hearing; Entry Of Order; Posthearing: If, after the evidentiary
hearing, the Hearing Officer determines, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that the motor vehicle was used in connection with a violation set forth in
section
7-10-2 of this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall enter an order finding the
owner of record or lessee of the motor vehicle civilly liable to the Village
for an administrative fee in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00), and
require the motor vehicle to continue to be impounded until the administrative
fee is paid to the Village, plus applicable towing and storage costs to the
applicable tow company. The five hundred dollar ($500.00) administrative fee
shall be a debt due to the Village. If a cash bond has been posted pursuant to
section
7-10-4 or subsection
7-10-5C of this chapter, the bond shall be applied to the administrative fee.
If the owner of record or lessee fails to appear at the evidentiary hearing,
the Hearing Officer shall enter a default order in favor of the Village, which
order shall require the payment to the Village of the five hundred dollar
($500.00) administrative fee and towing and storage costs to the applicable tow
company, and the continued impoundment of the motor vehicle until the five
hundred dollar ($500.00) administrative fee and towing and storage costs are
paid to the Village and the applicable towing company, respectively. If the
Hearing Officer finds no such violation occurred, the Hearing Officer shall
order the immediate return of the owner of record or lessee's motor vehicle
without any fee or other costs, or, if a cash bond had previously been posted,
the cash bond shall be returned, but the owner of record or lessee shall be
responsible for any towing or storage charges to the applicable tow company.
All orders issued by the Hearing Officer under this chapter shall be in
writing.
   D.   Hearing; Burden Of Proof: At the evidentiary hearing, the violation
citation shall be prima facie evidence that the violation was committed as
provided in the citation, and the burden of proof shall be upon the owner of
record to prove that the violation was not committed.
   E.   Village Responsibility: If the Hearing Officer finds that the Village
exceeded its authority under this chapter in the seizure and impoundment of a
motor vehicle, the Village shall be liable to the registered owner or lessee of
the vehicle for the cost of storage fees and reasonable attorney's fees. (Ord.
16-2853, 11-28-2016)
7-10-7: DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   If the administrative fee and other applicable fees are not paid within
thirty five (35) days after an administrative fee is imposed against an owner
of record who defaults by failing to appear at the hearings provided in section
7-10-6 of this chapter, or who admits guilt at the plea hearing, the motor
vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner
provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed motor vehicles pursuant to 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq., as amended. In all other cases, if
the administrative fee and applicable towing and storage costs to the
applicable tow company are not paid within thirty five (35) days after a
written decision was issued, the motor vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and
shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of
unclaimed motor vehicles pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et
seq., as amended.
   B.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner of record,
lessee, lien holder or other person shall be legally entitled to take
possession of a motor vehicle impounded under this chapter until the
administrative fee and towing and storage costs to the applicable tow company
imposed pursuant to this chapter have been paid. However, whenever a person
with a lien of record against an impounded motor vehicle has commenced
foreclosure proceedings, possession of the motor vehicle shall be given to that
person if he or she agrees in writing to refund to the Village the amount of
the net proceeds of any foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all
lien holders of record, not to exceed the administrative fee, plus the
applicable towing and storage costs.
   C.   Costs for towing and storage of a motor vehicle pursuant to this
chapter shall be those approved by the Village Manager to ensure uniformity of
charges and costs among all tow companies authorized to tow for the Department
of Law Enforcement Services. (Ord. 16-2853, 11-28-2016)
7-10-8: APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS:
This chapter is in addition to and shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any
existing State or Federal laws or any ordinance that relates to the seizure or
impoundment of motor vehicles, and any fee provided for in this chapter shall
be in addition to any and all penalties that may be assessed or imposed by a
court for any criminal charges. This chapter shall not apply: a) if the motor
vehicle used in the violation was stolen at the time of the violation and
verifiable proof of the theft is provided to the Village; b) if the motor
vehicle is operated as a common carrier as defined by applicable law and the
violation occurs without the knowledge of the person in control of the motor
vehicle; or c) if the motor vehicle is subject to successful forfeiture
proceedings under 725 Illinois Compiled Statutes 150/1 et seq., as amended
("Drug Asset Forfeiture Procedure Act"); 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-
1 et seq., as amended ("seizure and forfeiture of vessels, vehicles and
aircraft"); or other State or Federal forfeiture laws. (Ord. 16-2853, 11-28-
2016)
7-10-9: USE OF FEES COLLECTED:
All fees collected by the Village pursuant to this chapter shall only be
deposited and used for Village traffic safety and enforcement expenditures and
for the expenses of the Village's Administrative Adjudication Program. (Ord.
16-2853, 11-28-2016)
7-10-10: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
Any owner of record, lessee, lien holder or other person with a legal interest
in the motor vehicle, shall have the right to appeal the decision of the
Hearing Officer to the Circuit Court for the Fifth Judicial Circuit, Cook
County, Illinois, pursuant to the Administrative Review Act, 735 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq., as amended. Unless stayed by a court of
competent jurisdiction, any fine, penalty, or administrative fee imposed under
this chapter which remains unpaid in whole or in part after the expiration of
the deadline for seeking judicial review under the Administrative Review Act,
may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 16-2853, 11-28-2016)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Supervision By Department Of Public Works
8-1-2: Village Datum
8-1-3: Grades Of Streets And Sidewalks
8-1-4: Names Of Streets
8-1-5: Numbering Buildings
8-1-6: Buildings Or Structures Located On Public Property
8-1-7: Buildings And Structures Encroaching On Public Ways
8-1-8: Street Obstructions
8-1-9: Excavations
8-1-10: Restricted And Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-1-11: Block Parties
8-1-1: SUPERVISION BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS:
The Department of Public Works shall have charge and supervision of all
streets, alleys, highways, Village grounds, walks, crosswalks, parks and
buildings within and belonging to the Village and of the construction, care,
repair and maintenance thereof. (1997 Code)
8-1-2: VILLAGE DATUM:
The base or datum for the street and other levels of the Village is the level
of Lake Michigan as approximately determined by the Village surveys in 1886 and
is hereby established as the horizontal plane 95.35 feet below a rectangular
bench mark in the concrete at the base of the iron flagpole on the Village
green at Hillgrove Avenue near Lawn Avenue. Said bench mark is also 673.329
feet above mean sea level as determined by the United States Coast and Geodetic
Survey in July, 1947 (said elevation being the preliminary field determination,
subject to minor correction when adjusted or fitted to the national level net).
(1997 Code)
8-1-3: GRADES OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
The grades of streets and sidewalks as shown upon the official maps of the
Village are hereby established as the grades of such streets and sidewalks.
(1997 Code)
8-1-4: NAMES OF STREETS:
The several streets and avenues in the Village shall be known and designated by
the names adopted by the several ordinances now in force and now respectively
assigned thereto on the House Number Map approved by the President and Board of
Trustees on July 11, 1927, and all amendments and revisions thereof, said Map
being on file in the Village Hall and being incorporated herein by reference.
(1997 Code)
8-1-5: NUMBERING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Building Numbering Required: All buildings situated or hereafter
erected or located on any lots fronting on any street or avenue within the
Village, except garages and other accessory buildings, shall be numbered in the
manner described herein and as may hereafter be provided by ordinance.
   B.   Method Of Numbering:
      1.   All buildings fronting on north and south streets or streets running
in a northerly or southerly direction shall be numbered consecutively from a
line running parallel with and located approximately six hundred feet (600')
north of the north section line of Section Six, Township Thirty-Eight North,
Range Twelve, East of the Third P.M. as a base line, beginning with the number
3800 at said line and increasing toward the south.
      2.   All lots or buildings located on east and west streets or streets
running in an easterly or westerly direction shall be numbered consecutively
from the west line of Gilbert Avenue (and its continuation as Willow Springs
Road) as a base line, beginning with the number 1 and increasing toward the
west.
      3.   The house numbers from their starting point shall commence with the
number 1 and run consecutively, the odd numbers being on the east and south and
the even numbers on the west and north sides of the respective streets or
avenues, as shown by the Map described in Section
8-1-4 of this Chapter.
   C.   Assignment Of Numbers: The Department of Code Enforcement shall assign
or cause to be assigned the proper house numbers to each lot or building and
shall at any time upon request inform the owner, agent or person in possession
of such premises what such number is.
   D.   Location And Size: Each of the figures of every house or building
number shall be not less than three inches (3") in height and so marked as to
be easily read. The numbers shall be placed in a conspicuous place on the side
or above the front door of the building to which the same are attached.
   E.   Adjustments To Numbers: The Department of Code Enforcement shall have
authority to adjust and reassign house numbers in order to avoid conflict or
correct mistakes.
   F.   Alteration Of Numbers Prohibited: Whenever any house or building shall
have been numbered or renumbered as provided in this Chapter, such number shall
not be altered without the consent of the Department of Code Enforcement.
   G.   Compliance With Numbering System: Any person being the owner, agent or
person in possession of any building now or hereafter erected in the Village
who shall, for thirty (30) days after demand by the Department of Code
Enforcement, neglect or refuse to number any such building owned or occupied by
him as provided by this Chapter, shall be fined as provided for by Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1997 Code)
8-1-6: BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES LOCATED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall erect or place any building or other structure except those
exempted by subsection
10-4-4F of the Village Development Control Ordinance, in whole or in part, upon
any street, sidewalk, alley or public ground in the Village except for approved
structures for receipt of the United States mail or for receipt of public
library materials. (1997 Code)
8-1-7: BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES ENCROACHING ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Removal Required: The owner of the building, porch, steps, fence or
other structure in violation of this Code now standing or which may hereafter
be placed upon any street, sidewalk, alley or public ground in the Village, or
which shall be left standing upon any new street or alley which may hereafter
be opened therein, shall, upon notice from the Department of Code Enforcement,
remove the same within a reasonable time to be stated in such notice.
   B.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement:
      1.   Nuisance Declared: Any private building, porch, steps, fence or
other structure in violation of this Code is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and may be abated as such.
      2.   Abatement Procedures: If the owner, after notice from the Department
of Code Enforcement, shall fail to remove such building, porch, steps, fence or
other structure in violation of this Code from such street, sidewalk, alley or
public ground, the Department of Public Works shall cause the same to be
removed or taken down, at the expense of such owner. Every person who shall
obstruct or hinder any of officers in effecting such removal shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (1997 Code)
8-1-8: STREET OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Building Materials: No person shall obstruct any street, alley or other
public place in the Village, or cause the same to be done, by placing any
building materials, refuse or other articles of any kind therein or thereon
without having first obtained a written permit from the Department of Public
Works.
   B.   Refuse Containers: No person shall obstruct any street, alley, parkway
or other public place in the Village, or cause the same to be done, by placing
any refuse container of any type thereon including but not limited to
containers more commonly referred to as garbage cans, dumpsters and roll-off
boxes. Where physical circumstances preclude the delivery of such refuse
containers on private property, the Department of Public Works may, at its
discretion, issue a permit for the temporary placement of refuse containers on
public property for a period not to exceed seven (7) days. In the case of the
issuance of such permits, the permittee shall be required to execute a hold
harmless agreement in a form prescribed by the Village Attorney and/or provide
a certificate of insurance in an amount prescribed by the Village Attorney
naming the Village as an additional insured.
   C.   Removal Requirements: The Department of Public Works is hereby
authorized to order any building material, other materials, other articles or
refuse containers which encumber or obstruct any street, alley or other public
place in the Village to be removed. If the owner of such materials, articles or
containers fails to remove the same immediately after notice to do so or
forthwith, if the owner cannot be found in the Village, the Department of
Public Works shall cause the same to be removed to some suitable place, at the
expense of said owner. (1997 Code)
8-1-9: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements; Fees And Deposit: No person shall make any opening
or excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the Village without
first obtaining a permit. Application for such permit shall be made to the
Department of Code Enforcement and shall state the location and approximate
dimensions of the proposed excavation and the purpose for which it is to be
used. The fees and deposit for such permit shall be as prescribed in Title 9,
Chapter 1, Article A of this Code. Work authorized under contract to the
Village shall be exempt from the provisions of this Section.
   B.   Completion Of Work; Protection: The permittee shall promptly complete
the work for which such excavation has been made and shall protect traffic by
surrounding such excavation with proper barriers and by maintaining thereon,
from sundown to sunrise, lighted red lamps which are plainly visible in all
directions.
   C.   Refilling Excavations: The permittee, upon completion of the work for
which excavation was made, shall immediately refill such opening or excavation.
Under the direction of the Department of Public Works, any refilled excavation
awaiting paving shall be appropriately barricaded as determined by the
Department of Public Works for the purpose of excluding traffic until the
street shall be fit for passage. Such refill shall be kept in position until
the paving thereon has been replaced.
   D.   Compaction Of Pits And Trenches: All open excavations for the
installation of underground facilities shall be properly backfilled. Under hard
surfaces, such as roadways, sidewalks and driveways, trench backfill shall be
compacted and certified to acceptable engineering standards. Under parkways and
other soft surface areas, backfill material shall be compacted in six inch (6")
lifts with the final six inch (6") lift being suitable topsoil.
   E.   Replacing Pavement: The permittee, when such excavation in any street,
alley or other public place has been refilled, shall restore and replace the
paving thereon as soon as practical, but no later than thirty (30) days
thereafter. The pavement shall be constructed to match the adjacent pavement
cross-section and shall be as approved by the Department of Public Works.
   F.   Pavement Warrantee: The permittee shall maintain and keep in good
repair, free from depressions, all such pavement patches for a period of one
year, following the installation of the patch. If the permittee shall fail to
do so, the village may repair the pavement patch at the expense of the
permittee as prescribed in title 9, chapter 1, article A of this code. (1997
Code)
8-1-10: RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Littering Public Ways: No person shall throw, drop, place or leave in
or on any street, sidewalk, alley or public place in the village any stones,
missiles, nails, ice, glass, metal, ashes, grass, garbage, fruit, peelings,
paper, boards or any other article.
   B.   Driving Over Curbs, Upon Lawns: No person shall drive any vehicle over
any curb or upon any lawn space between the curb line and building line of any
street in the village without first covering said curb or lawn space with
planks or other suitable material in such manner as to protect the same from
damage. No vehicle shall be parked at any time on such lawn space or parkway.
   C.   Disturbing Barriers: No person shall disturb, displace or remove any
warning barrier in any public right of way or cause any vehicle to pass upon
any public right of way which has been barricaded off without the written
consent of the department of public works. (1997 Code)
   D.   Landscaping Materials In Public Ways: No landscaping materials,
including dirt, sod, stone, sand or other such material, shall be placed or
stored in the public right of way, except as provided for in chapter 11 of this
title. Such materials may be removed by the public works department at the
violators expense. (Ord. 07-2456, 7-23-2007)
8-1-11: BLOCK PARTIES:
Permits to close a street for the purpose of a block party may be issued by the
department of public works upon fulfillment of the requirements established by
that department. A sufficient number of barricades/cones for such block parties
as determined by the department of public works shall be provided upon issuance
of the permit and a fifty dollar ($50.00) deposit. The deposit will be refunded
to the permittee upon return of the barricades/cones to the department of
public works. If the barricades/cones are not returned within seven (7) days,
the deposit shall become the property of the village. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Inspections Required
8-2-2: Contractors; License Requirements
8-2-3: Sidewalk Specifications
8-2-4: Concrete Specifications
8-2-5: Builder's Stamp
8-2-6: Nonconforming Sidewalks
8-2-7: Restricted And Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-2-8: Driveway Aprons
8-2-9: Private Improvements In Public Right Of Way
8-2-1: INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
The following regulation shall apply to platted subdivisions that already exist
within the village and that have some public sidewalks serving residences
already constructed therein. As part of any new construction, tear down
development, subdivision, planned development or an addition or renovation to
an existing residence or commercial building, a concrete sidewalk shall be
installed by the property owner in the public right of way along the street
frontage of the property extending from lot line to lot line where a sidewalk
does not currently exist or if a sidewalk already exists and is in poor
condition, as determined by the director of municipal services, or his
designee, the sidewalk or portions thereof shall be replaced as part of the
construction project. The village engineer shall designate the location and
grade of the sidewalk. The property owner shall be responsible for the cost of
the installation of the concrete sidewalk or any replacement portions of the
existing sidewalk. In the case of a corner lot, the sidewalk shall be installed
in the public right of way along both street frontages of the property and
shall extend from lot line to lot line. As an alternative to concrete
sidewalks, sidewalks installed in the public right of way may be constructed of
brick pavers or similar materials when authorized by the village board as part
of a planned development. No person shall construct, rebuild, repair or remove
any sidewalks on any public street or right of way in the village without first
obtaining a building permit and an inspection from the department of municipal
services.
The above regulation shall not apply to any tract of land or platted
subdivision that was annexed into the village's corporate boundaries after
November 29, 1948, the adoption date of the village's initial "official plan";
however, for any tract of land or platted subdivision that was annexed into the
village at any time under an annexation agreement that contained a sidewalk
installation plan, the plan shall control and govern the sidewalk installation
for that land and shall take precedence over the above regulation. If the
village approves a total street reconstruction project for a subdivision that
meets the above exemption, the village will engineer a sidewalk installation
plan for the subdivision and present to the village board for consideration the
installation of sidewalks throughout the subdivision or in portions of the
subdivision adjacent to the street reconstruction project. The amount and
payment method by the property owners for the sidewalk (if any) will be decided
by the village board. Upon approval by the village board of the street
reconstruction project that includes such a sidewalk installation plan, the
above exemption as applied to the subdivision would terminate. For purposes of
this section, the Ridgewood subdivision meets the above exemption.
If a subdivision is exempted from the above regulation, a sidewalk may still be
installed by an owner on his or her lot, or a sidewalk system may be installed
throughout some or all of the subdivision, subject to the issuance of the
appropriate village permit. The installation of a sidewalk by one or more
property owners in a subdivision that is exempted from the above regulation
shall not waive the exemption for the other property owners in the subdivision.
The above exemption does not prevent or bar the village from making a
determination that it is in the best interest of the residents of the
subdivision that sidewalks be installed throughout an exempted subdivision. In
accordance with accepted planning techniques and applicable engineering
standards, the above exemptions recognize that, where possible, sidewalks
should be installed on a block by block basis or throughout an entire
subdivision. See also section
9-13-6, "Required Plans And Specifications", of this code and section
10-10-6, "Pedestrian Circulation System", of the development control ordinance.
The sidewalk or pedestrian circulation system shall be constructed in
accordance with the provisions of section
10-10-16, "Engineering Specifications", of the development control ordinance.
(Ord. 09-2527, 2-23-2009)
8-2-2: CONTRACTORS; LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of
constructing or repairing sidewalks or driveways on the streets or public ways
of the village without having first obtained a license as a cement contractor,
as provided in title 3, chapter 3 of this code. The provisions of this section
shall not apply to any person desiring to lay or repair a sidewalk in front of
property owned by him.
      1.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter, grant or issuance of any Village approvals, certificates, licenses or
permits covered by this Chapter.
   B.   Effect Of Responsibility For Construction: Every cement contractor
shall maintain and keep in repair all sidewalks constructed by him in the
village for a period of one year from the date of completion thereof, and
failure to do so in any instance shall be sufficient cause for revocation of
his license, but no such requirement shall be made except as to repairs
necessitated by faulty or improper materials, poor workmanship or failure to
properly protect the sidewalk from damage by the elements while in the course
of construction and setting. (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022)
8-2-3: SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Grades: The grades or elevations of all sidewalks shall be fixed by the
department of public works.
   B.   Width And Slope: New sidewalks shall be five feet (5') in width (unless
connecting sidewalks are wider, then new sidewalks shall be the same width as
existing and connecting walks) and the upper surface thereof, when completed,
shall have a slope of one-fourth (1/4) of an inch to the foot toward the center
of the street or way on which such sidewalk is laid. The department of public
works may grant a permit for extending sidewalks to the curb line in front of
business property wherever, in the department's judgment, such extension is
desirable or necessary.
   C.   Surface Height: The surface of the inside edge of the sidewalk, nearest
the lot line, shall, when completed, be at least six inches (6") above the
grade of the curb, if any, or if there is no curb, six inches (6") above the
established grade of the centerline of the street. This provision may be
modified on a case by case basis as determined by the department of public
works.
   D.   Distance From Lot Line: The inside edge of every sidewalk, when
completed, shall be at a distance of two feet (2') from the line of the lot or
lots in front of or alongside of the lot or lots which it is constructed,
except where a different line shall be established by the department of public
works.
   E.   Foundation; Subgrade: Before laying a sidewalk, a subgrade foundation
shall first be prepared by cutting down or filling up the surface of the ground
to a grade which shall be five inches (5") below the final sidewalk grade. For
squares intersecting or crossing driveways, the subgrade foundation shall be
cut to a depth of seven inches (7") below the final sidewalk grade. The
excavated cut shall be no wider than the width of the sidewalk. Only steel
forms shall be used to frame the sidewalk unless obstructions preclude their
use, in which case, the excavation cut may be made such that wooden forms may
be used. Soft and spongy places, if any, shall be dug out and filled with
proper material. Filling shall be composed of earth, free from animal or
vegetable matter or stones measuring no more than four inches (4") in any
dimension. Gravel, crushed stone or similar material, with a suitable binder,
may also be used. The subgrade foundation shall in all cases be thoroughly
compacted by wetting and rolling with a self-propelled roller weighing at least
three (3) tons or ramming until solid and unyielding. After excavation of
sidewalks, barricades shall be placed around the hole.
   F.   Workmanship: All the work described herein shall be performed in a good
and workmanlike manner and under the direction and supervision of the
department of public works.
   G.   Width Of Walks And Parkways: No person shall extend or build any
sidewalk beyond the established width. On all streets where parkways or open
spaces are allowed for planting trees or for grass plots, the same shall not be
covered with the sidewalk, except such parts and portions of said space as may
be allowed for passageways to the curbing and carriage walks which can be
installed without damaging public trees or other public appurtenances.
Passageways and carriage walks constructed of concrete, brick, stone or other
approved materials may be allowed after obtaining a permit from the department
of public works. (1997 Code)
8-2-4: CONCRETE SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Specifications: All public sidewalks within the village shall be of
concrete, shall be constructed under the supervision of the department of
public works and, except where special assessment or special taxation
ordinances may provide otherwise, shall comply with the specifications set
forth below in this Chapter.
   B.   Concrete Proportioning:
      1.   Concrete cement shall be proportioned in accordance with article
408.04 of the Illinois Department of Transportation's Standard Specifications
with the modification specified therein.
      2.   The concrete, when tested in the form of six inch (6") cubes at the
age of one month, shall have a crushing strength of not less than two thousand
(2,000) pounds per square inch.
      3.   Concrete which has partially set shall not be retempered nor used
and shall be discarded.
   C.   Laying Cement:
      1.   Upon the subgrade foundation shall be placed a layer or course of
Portland cement concrete which shall be five inches (5") in thickness for the
full width of the walk. For squares intersecting or crossing driveways, the
subgrade foundation shall be cut to a depth of seven inches (7") below the
final sidewalk grade. This concrete shall consist of one part Portland cement,
two (2) parts sand and three and one-half (31/2) parts crushed stone or gravel,
as prescribed in subsection B of this Section.
      2.   The concrete shall be tamped and struck off with a template and
shall be floated with a wood or steel float until the surface has a true
contour at the exact grade of the finished walk. Care shall be taken not to
bring to the surface an excess of water and fine sand by over finishing. The
surface shall be given a light brooming after the concrete has begun to harden.
      3.   The walk shall be cut into separate rectangular blocks not more than
five feet (5') in length, the surface edges of each being rounded to a one-
quarter inch (1/4") radius.
      4.   Expansion joints shall be constructed across the walk and for the
full depth of the concrete, at intervals of not more than fifty feet (50'), the
edges of the concrete being rounded to a one-quarter inch (1/4") radius. These
joints shall be one-half inch (1/2") in width and shall be filled with
fiberboard expansion. Similar expansion joints shall be made at all points
where the new walk abuts on existing concrete walks, curbs or steps. (1997
Code)
8-2-5: BUILDER'S STAMP:
All concrete sidewalks hereafter constructed in any public street, alley, park
or place in the Village, whether the same shall be laid by public or private
contract, shall be stamped in plain characters showing the date of construction
and the name of the builder. For five (5) or more continuous squares, the stamp
shall be placed on the first and the last squares or every seventy five feet
(75'). (1997 Code)
8-2-6: NONCONFORMING SIDEWALKS:
If any person shall construct or cause to be constructed a sidewalk or curb
which fails to comply with the provisions of this Chapter, whether as to
location, grade or construction, such sidewalk shall be rebuilt or repaired in
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter, pursuant to an order from the
Department of Public Works. If such order be not obeyed, the Department,
without prejudice to the penalties hereinafter provided, may cause the
necessary work to be done at the expense of the person so in default. (1997
Code)
8-2-7: RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Encroaching On Sidewalk Space: No part of any sidewalk shall be taken
for private use by lowering or cutting down the sidewalk or by constructing
raised platforms thereon or by railing off the sidewalk or in any other manner
interfering with its use by the public.
   B.   Openings In Sidewalks: No person shall keep or leave open any cellar
door or grating of any vault on any highway or sidewalk or suffer the same to
be kept or left open or leave any opening in any sidewalk, so as to endanger
life or limb.
   C.   Storage On Walks; Snow And Ice: No street, alley, sidewalk or other
public place shall be used for the storage of goods or merchandise or for signs
of any kind. Snow removed from sidewalks in the business district shall be
piled in the roadway or gutter. (1997 Code)
   D.   Merchandise On Sidewalks: No person, while receiving or delivering
goods, wares or merchandise, shall permit the same to remain on any sidewalk or
in any street longer than one hour, and for this purpose, he shall occupy only
so much of the outer part of the sidewalk in front of his store or building as
will leave for the use of pedestrians an unoccupied space four feet (4') in
width free from skids and obstructions of every character. This provision may
be waived by the Department of Code Enforcement as provided in Section
10-4-5 of the Village Development Control Ordinance. (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 98-
2064, 12-21-1998)
   E.   Vehicles On Sidewalks: No person shall push, propel or back any
motorized vehicles over any sidewalk, unless it be in crossing to go into a
yard or lot where no other suitable crossing or means of access is provided, in
which case, suitable protection to said sidewalk shall be provided.
   F.   Blocking Sidewalks: No person owning or in charge or control of any
vehicle shall permit the same to block or obstruct any sidewalk, as defined in
Section
7-3-1 of this Code, except so far as may be necessary to cross it pursuant to
the provisions of Title 7 of this Code.
   G.   Damaging Sidewalks; Repair: No person shall damage any public sidewalk.
In case of damage, said person shall, within ten (10) days and at his own
expense, cause the same to be repaired, to the satisfaction of the Department
of Public Works.
   H.   Violations: The Department of Public Works or any police officer, in
case of violation of subsection C or D of this Section, may cause such
merchandise or other obstruction to be removed at the expense of the offender.
(1997 Code)
8-2-8: DRIVEWAY APRONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall construct or alter any driveway
apron over, across or upon any public sidewalk or parkway without first
obtaining a permit to do so from the department of code enforcement. A
"driveway apron" is defined as any paved roadway between the curb line of any
street and the adjacent property line or the parkway side of the edge of the
sidewalk, whichever is less.
      2.   Application For Permit: Application for such permit shall be in
writing, signed by the applicant; it shall designate the location of the
proposed driveway apron, the name and address of the owner of the property to
be served thereby and the address of the applicant, if other than the owner. It
shall be accompanied by plans and specifications for the proposed driveway
apron.
      3.   Issuance Of Permit: The department of code enforcement, upon
approval of the application and the plans and specifications submitted, shall
issue a permit; provided, that the prescribed fee has first been paid. The
plans and specifications shall be kept on file in the department of code
enforcement.
      4.   Permit Fee: The fee for such permit shall be as established in title
9 of this code.
      5.   Revocation Of Permit: All permits for driveway aprons issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall provide that they may be
revoked at any time without the consent of the permittee, by the department of
code enforcement, and that upon such revocation, all rights granted thereunder
shall terminate, and the sidewalk space, parkways and curbs shall be restored
to their former condition, all at the expense of the permittee or of the owner
of the property served by the driveway apron at the time of any such
revocation.
   B.   Construction Requirements And Specifications:
      1.   Materials For Construction:
         a.   Concrete: Concrete driveway aprons shall be constructed in
compliance with the provisions of sections
8-2-3 and
8-2-4 of this chapter, so far as they are applicable and shall be not less than
seven inches (7") thick if for residential use or eight inches (8") thick if
serving commercial or industrial property. In either case, reinforced concrete
seven inches (7") thick may be substituted.
         b.   Asphalt: Driveway aprons in residential districts may also be
constructed of asphalt or brick pavers according to specifications prescribed
by the department of municipal services.
      2.   Width: Residential driveway aprons shall not exceed twenty feet
(20') unless approved by the department of code enforcement. An approach radius
of an additional thirty six inches (36") at the curb line is permitted upon the
village parkway on each side of the garage driveway. This radius shall begin no
further back from the curb line than thirty six inches (36"), beyond which
point there shall be no encroachment whatsoever on the parkway in front of the
adjoining property.
      3.   Grades And Curbs: Driveway aprons shall conform to the existing
sidewalk grade. Where it is necessary to break the existing curb for the
driveway apron, the curb and gutter shall be completely removed and a new
section constructed or machine cut as approved by the department of public
works. Each such driveway apron shall be constructed and maintained so as to
permit free and unobstructed passage on, over or across the same and in such
manner as not to interfere with the proper drainage and safe grading of
streets. Gradual approaches to the regular sidewalk grade shall be made from
the grade of the driveway. The driveway apron entrance shall be one inch (1")
above the gutter slab. The slope of any driveway apron and the approaches
thereto shall not exceed two inches (2") to the foot in any direction. Each
such driveway apron shall be so constructed and maintained that its surface at
the point of crossing any sidewalk pavement shall be flush with the adjoining
sections of such sidewalk.
      4.   Number Of Aprons: Only one driveway apron and associated curb cut
shall be allowed for each residence.
         a.   Exceptions:
            (1)   One U-shape driveway and related aprons per residence in a
location and of a configuration, as approved by the village engineer.
            (2)   In the case of corner lots, one U-shaped driveway and related
aprons shall be allowed on one street frontage and one additional driveway and
related apron shall be allowed on the other street frontage in a location and
of a configuration, as approved by the village engineer, for the purpose of
allowing garage access.
Where a new residential driveway and apron are being constructed in a different
location, it shall be the responsibility of the resident to remove the existing
driveway and apron, make all necessary repairs to the adjacent curb and gutter
and restore the parkway.
   C.   Brick or other materials: Driveway aprons in residential districts may
also be constructed of brick pavers or other material. Construction details
must be submitted and reviewed by the department of municipal services during a
building permit application process. The Village shall not be required to
replace the same material for a Village project. (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 02-2208,
10-28-2002; Ord. 24-3166, 2-26-2024)
8-2-9: PRIVATE IMPROVEMENTS IN PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
Private improvements in the public right of way including but not limited to
underground sprinkler systems, liquid radiant heating coils, or any other
improvement as determined by the department of Municipal Services, shall be
permitted only upon the execution of a license agreement approved by the
village attorney and recorded against the property. In consideration for the
village granting the resident permission to install or construct such
improvements, the resident shall agree to assume the full cost for repair,
removal or replacement of such improvements or systems in public rights of way
should they be damaged by any cause or should the improvements or systems
require removal during the installation, maintenance or repair of a village
facility or any other utility located in the right of way and each subsequent
owner of the property after the license has been issued must provide proof of
insurance to the Village for review and approval by the Director of Municipal
Services and the Village Attorney. This license shall run with the land and
shall be binding upon the heirs or any successors in title to the property.
(1997 Code; amd. Ord. 24-3166, 2-26-2024)
CHAPTER 3
SUBSURFACE SPACE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Use Of Subsurface Space Prohibited
8-3-1: USE OF SUBSURFACE SPACE PROHIBITED:
No person shall use any space underneath the surface of any sidewalk or alley
in the Village, or construct or maintain any structure thereunder, or make or
maintain any openings in the surface thereof, except as otherwise expressly
permitted by this Code. (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 24-3166, 2-26-2024)
CHAPTER 4
NEWSPAPER DISPENSING DEVICES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Location, Permit Required
8-4-3: Permit For Privately Owned Devices
8-4-4: Permit For Village Owned Devices
8-4-5: Removal Of Privately Owned Devices
8-4-6: Emergency Provisions
8-4-7: Appeal, Privately Owned Devices
8-4-8: Revocation Of Permits
8-4-9: Enforcement
8-4-10: Penalties
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
DISTRIBUTOR: The person responsible for placing and maintaining a newspaper
dispensing device in a public right of way.
NEWSPAPER DISPENSING DEVICE: A container constructed of metal or other material
of substantially equivalent strength and durability which is used for the
dispensing of newspapers, flyers, handbills or other similar printed materials
either at a cost or free of charge.
PARKWAY: The area between the sidewalks and the curb of any street and where
there is no sidewalk, that area between the edge of the roadway and property
line adjacent thereto. "Parkway" shall also include any area within a roadway
which is not open to vehicular travel.
PICTORIAL MATERIAL: Any material suggesting or conveying a visual image and
includes, but is not limited to, a photograph, painting or drawing.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street, improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
SIDEWALK: Any surface provided for the exclusive use of pedestrians.
STREET: That area dedicated to public use for public street purposes and shall
include, but not be limited to, roadways, parkways, alleys and sidewalks. (1997
Code; amd. Ord. 05-2341, 3-21-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
8-4-2: LOCATION, PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No privately owned newspaper dispensing device shall be placed or
located at the Western Springs train station, except in the following area:
That area of Western Springs lying 48.50 feet south of the centerline of
Hillgrove Avenue, 89.70 feet north of the centerline of Burlington Avenue,
200.00 feet east of the centerline of Lawn Avenue and 171.70 feet west of the
centerline of Wolf Road. For purposes of this chapter, the "Western Springs
train station" shall be defined as that area of Western Springs lying south of
the centerline of Hillgrove Avenue, north of the centerline of Burlington
Avenue, east of the centerline of Lawn Avenue and west of the centerline of
Wolf Road. The definition of "Western Springs train station" shall include, but
not be limited to, any and all sidewalks, walkways, parking areas, bus and cab
stations, commuter platforms and waiting areas within the Western Springs train
station area.
   B.   The village shall place village owned newspaper dispensing devices at
the Western Springs train station, at such locations as it shall determine are
safe and convenient for users and attractive for the general public. No
newspapers shall be placed in any of said village owned newspaper dispensing
devices without a permit for such use, as set out in section
8-4-4 of this chapter.
   C.   At locations other than the Western Springs train station, no privately
owned newspaper dispensing device shall be placed or located within a public
right of way, along the streets, thoroughfares, parkways, sidewalks or on any
other village of Western Springs property, whether owned or leased by the
village within the village of Western Springs without a permit for such use, as
set out in section
8-4-3 of this chapter.
   D.   In the event that the implementation of these regulations prohibits the
continued use of a privately owned newspaper dispensing device at locations
identified in subsection A of this section, the permittee operating such device
may relocate said box to a location outside of said area, subject to village
approval, or may discontinue the use of such newspaper dispensing device and
use one of the village owned newspaper dispensing devices in accordance with
section
8-4-4 of this chapter, either option to be permitted without payment of an
additional fee for the permit year ending December 2005. (Ord. 05-2341, 3-21-
2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
8-4-3: PERMIT FOR PRIVATELY OWNED DEVICES:
   A.   Applications for a permit for a privately owned newspaper dispensing
device shall be made on forms approved by the village for permits allowing for
the installation and placement of newspaper dispensing devices at specified
locations within the public right of way, along the streets, thoroughfares,
parkways, sidewalks or on any other village property within the village. The
applications shall be provided by the village building and development
department upon request. The application must include a site plan and state the
exact location where the applicant wishes to install a newspaper dispensing
device. The application must also include a description of and the size and
color specifications for the intended newspaper dispensing device.
Misrepresentation of information, false statements or any other fraudulent
information supplied on or with the application shall be grounds for revocation
of a permit in compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Within five (5) business days of receipt of a completed application for
a permit and payment of applicable fee, the village shall issue a permit,
provided that the applicant meets conditions contained in subsection H of this
section. In the event that the terms and conditions of subsection H of this
section, where applicable, are not met, the village shall, within five (5)
business days of receipt of an application for a permit, deny the application,
state the reasons in writing for such denial and notify the applicant, in
writing, by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the reasons for the
denial. Any such denial may be appealed pursuant to the procedure set forth in
this chapter.
   C.   The applicant shall pay an annual administrative processing fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each location where a newspaper dispensing
device is installed. Newspaper dispensing devices established or located after
July 1 of the year shall pay fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each location where a
newspaper dispensing device is installed. All fees shall be payable to the
village of Western Springs and collected by the village building and
development department.
   D.   Permits shall be for a term of one year and shall not be assignable.
Permits shall expire on December 31 of each year. Applications for renewal of
permits shall be filed with the village no later than December 15 of each year.
Fees paid between December 15 and January 15 shall include a late fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00). In the event the renewal fees are not paid by January 15, the
location where the device is placed shall be considered forfeited. If the
permittee desires to retain the location for placement of a device by payment
of the required permit fees, said fees shall include an additional late fee of
sixty dollars ($60.00) if paid on or after January 16 of the permit year. All
fees shall be payable to the village of Western Springs and collected by the
village building and development department.
   E.   A permit shall allow the installation of a newspaper dispensing device
only at the location described in the application for the permit. The permit
shall contain a description of the authorized location and permits shall not be
transferable from one location to another or from one person to another.
   F.   As an express condition of the acceptance of a permit hereunder, the
permittee agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the village, its officers,
appointed and elected officials, president and trustees, agents, employees,
attorneys and volunteers against any loss or liability or damage, including
expenses and costs for bodily or personal injury and for property damage
sustained by any person as the result of the location, installation, use or
maintenance of a newspaper dispensing device within the village.
   G.   Each coin operated newspaper dispensing device shall be equipped with a
coin return mechanism to permit a person using the machine an immediate refund
in the event he is unable to receive the publication paid for. The coin return
mechanisms shall be maintained in good working order.
   H.   A permit issued for a privately owned newspaper dispensing device shall
be a mere license to use the public property subject to and granted upon the
following conditions, restrictions and requirements, and shall not be
considered a property interest in the public property:
      1.   Privately owned newspaper dispensing devices shall not be placed at
the "Western Springs train station" as defined in section
8-4-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Privately owned newspaper dispensing devices shall be placed
adjacent and parallel to building walls not more than six inches (6") distant
therefrom, or near and parallel to the curb not less than eighteen inches (18")
and not more than twenty four inches (24") distant from the curb.
      3.   No privately owned newspaper dispensing device shall be placed,
installed, located or maintained:
         a.   Within three feet (3') of any marked crosswalk.
         b.   Within twelve feet (12') of the curb return of any unmarked
crosswalk.
         c.   Within five feet (5') of any fire hydrant, fire call box, police
call box or other emergency facility.
         d.   Within five feet (5') of any driveway.
         e.   Within three feet (3') ahead or fifteen feet (15') to the rear of
any sign marking a designated bus stop.
         f.   Within three feet (3') of the outer end of any bus or train
bench.
         g.   At any location whereby the clear space for the passageway of
pedestrians is reduced to less than six feet (6').
         h.   Within three feet (3') of or on any public area improved with
lawn, flowers, shrubs, trees or other landscaping.
         i.   Within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any other newsrack on the
same side of the street in the same block containing the same issue or edition
of the same publication.
         j.   Within fifteen feet (15') of any intersecting driveway, alley or
street.
         k.   Within five feet (5') of any street sign, stoplight, parking
meter, streetlight, utility pole, or display window.
         l.   So as to be chained, bolted, or otherwise secured, to any fixture
located in the public right of way, except to other newsracks or unless so
authorized for reasons of safety by the village manager.
         m.   On or within any median within any public right of way.
         n.   Newspaper dispensing devices may be placed next to each other;
provided, that no group of newspaper dispensing devices shall extend for a
distance of more than eight feet (8') along a curb, and a space of not less
than three feet (3') shall separate each group of newspaper dispensing devices.
      4.   No publication may be displayed, offered for sale, or offered free
to the public on any public right of way by means of a newspaper dispensing
device in such manner as to expose to the public view any photograph, drawing
or depiction of any kind contained within such publication displaying any of
the following:
         a.   The genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region on any person;
         b.   Any portion of the breast, at or below the areola, of any female
person.
      5.   The permittee shall maintain the newspaper dispensing device in good
working order, in a safe and clean condition, in such a manner so that:
         a.   It is reasonably free of dirt and grease;
         b.   It is reasonably free of chipped, faded, peeling and cracked
paint in the visible painted areas thereof;
         c.   It is reasonably free of rust and corrosion in the visible
unpainted metal areas thereon;
         d.   The clear plastic or glass parts thereof, if any, through which
the publications therein are viewed are unbroken and reasonably free of cracks,
dents, blemishes and discoloration;
         e.   The paper or cardboard parts or inserts thereof are reasonably
free of tears, peeling or fading;
         f.   The structural parts thereof are not broken or unduly misshapen
and the device is level on the ground and not leaning or placed on uneven
portions of ground.
      6.   A legible telephone number shall be displayed on the newspaper
dispensing device for a user to call to obtain a refund in case of malfunction
of the newspaper dispensing device.
      7.   Newspaper dispensing devices may have the name of the newspaper or
the applicable publication displayed on the side, front and back of the device
provided that the lettering is no larger than two inches (2") in height.
      8.   The newspaper dispensing device shall not be used for advertising
signs or publicity purposes other than the purposes dealing with the display,
sale or distribution of the newspaper sold or distributed free therein.
      9.   Upon removal of the newspaper dispensing device, the permittee shall
restore the property of the village to the same condition as when the newspaper
dispensing device was initially installed, ordinary wear and tear excepted. If
those repairs are not made within thirty (30) days, the village shall undertake
that repair work and collect from the owner or permittee the costs thereof,
including reasonable attorney fees and related costs of collection. (Ord. 05-
2341, 3-21-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
8-4-4: PERMIT FOR VILLAGE OWNED DEVICES:
   A.   Village owned newspaper dispensing devices shall be located at the
"Western Springs train station", as defined in section
8-4-2 of this chapter, at such locations as determined by the village.
   B.   Permits for spaces within village owned newspaper dispensing devices
shall be a mere license to use the village owned newspaper dispensing device
and not a property interest therein, and shall be issued subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   Persons or entities wishing to place newspapers, flyers, handbills
or other printed materials in the village owned newspaper dispensing devices
must file a completed application for a permit on the forms that shall be
provided by the village building and development department upon request. The
permittee shall make those agreements and be in compliance with those
conditions set forth in the application. Said agreements and conditions will
include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Complete name, address and signature of applicant, address for
giving notices as may be required under this chapter, and statement that
applicant has capacity and authority to enter into said agreement.
         b.   Statement that the permittee understands the concept of freedom
of the press as it relates to permittee's publication, and agrees to waive any
and all objections to the use of the village owned newspaper dispensing devices
on such grounds.
         c.   Statement that the permittee understands and agrees that the
village shall not be responsible for loss of money or contents from the space,
and that the village shall not be responsible for loss of revenue in the event
of damages due to fire, flood or other events beyond the village's control.
The applicant shall provide such other information as may be requested on the
application form, as amended from time to time.
      2.   As part of the installation of the village owned newspaper
dispensing devices, each of the current permittees with newspaper dispensing
devices in the village will be provided with written notice from the village of
the opportunity to apply for one space in each village owned newspaper
dispensing device. As part of that notice, if an existing permittee
discontinues using an existing newspaper dispensing device in exchange for
locating to a space in the village owned newspaper dispensing device, the
permittee will not be charged an additional permit fee for the balance of that
permit year. Each permit year thereafter, the permittees who received an
initial permit for a space within a village owned newspaper dispensing device
may renew their permits in accordance with subsection B4 of this section.
      3.   For available spaces, permits shall be issued on a first come, first
served basis. Each applicant may receive a maximum of two (2) permits for two
(2) spaces in each village owned newspaper dispensing device. The director of
building and development shall be responsible for assigning available space to
successful applicants. In the event that the village has issued permits equal
to the number of available spaces in the newspaper dispensing devices,
additional applicants will be placed on a waiting list. As spaces become
available, additional permits shall be issued according to the provisions of
this chapter. Only one type of publication shall be allowed to be displayed in
each space of the village owned newspaper dispensing device.
      4.   The permittee shall pay an administrative processing fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) and maintenance fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each
space in the village owned newspaper dispensing device or devices if requesting
placement in more than one village owned newspaper dispensing device. The
initial administrative processing permit fee and maintenance fee shall be
applicable to the initial permit year, or any part thereof. The permittee shall
pay an annual renewal administrative processing fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) and maintenance fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per year for each
space. Permits shall be for a term of one year and shall not be assignable.
Permits shall expire on December 31 of each year. Applications and payment for
permits shall be filed with the village building and development department no
later than December 15 of each year. Fees paid between December 15 and January
15 shall include a late fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event the renewal
fees are not paid by January 15, the space shall be forfeited and the coin
mechanism locked by the village. If the permittee desires to retain a space in
the village owned newspaper dispensing device by payment of the required permit
fees, said fees shall include an additional late fee of sixty dollars ($60.00)
if paid on or after January 16 of the permit year. Upon payment of all fees the
village shall remove any locking devices placed on the coin mechanism.
      5.   The permittee during the term of the permit shall be responsible for
the following:
         a.   Providing and maintaining an adequate supply of newspapers,
flyers, handbills or other printed materials in the space.
         b.   Providing routine housekeeping and removal of trash and debris
from the space.
         c.   Repair and maintenance of the coin mechanism.
         d.   Maintaining the price display plaque and replacing, as necessary,
with approved replacement.
         e.   Repair and maintenance of all interior spaces and surfaces.
         f.   Displaying and maintaining a valid phone number on the space for
refunds or complaints.
      6.   The permittee, upon removal of the materials from the newspaper
dispensing device, shall restore the newspaper dispensing device to the same
condition as when the device was initially installed, ordinary wear and tear
excepted. The permittee shall be responsible for reimbursing the village for
the cost of any repairs to the newspaper dispensing device resulting from
damage caused by the permittee.
   C.   The village will be responsible for the exterior maintenance of village
owned newspaper dispensing devices including, but not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Faded, cracked or vandalized lenses.
      2.   Exposed door hardware.
      3.   Exterior surfaces of doors and boxes and all structural components.
The village specifically excludes maintenance responsibility for price display
plaques. (Ord. 05-2341, 3-21-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
8-4-5: REMOVAL OF PRIVATELY OWNED DEVICES:
   A.   In the event any newspaper dispensing device is placed or remains
within any public right of way, street, thoroughfare, parkway, sidewalk or
other village property without a permit being issued for the newspaper
dispensing device, or after the expiration or revocation of a previously issued
permit, or in violation of any other provision of this chapter, the village
shall send, by certified mail, with return receipt requested, a written notice
to the address of the owner or user of the newspaper dispensing device. The
notice shall state the address and telephone number of the village; a
description of why the newspaper dispensing device is in violation of the
requirements of this chapter; that the owner or user is ordered to cause
immediate removal of the newspaper dispensing device from public property; and
that the newspaper dispensing device will be removed by the village after a
date designated in the notice. The date shall be no less than ten (10) calendar
days after the date the notice is mailed; unless the owner or user requests a
hearing before the village board by filing a written appeal with the village
manager pursuant to subsection
8-4-7B of this chapter on or before the designated removal date.
   B.   If any newspaper dispensing device is still on public property after
the ten (10) calendar day period described above, or if an appeal is filed and
denied after hearing before the village board, the newspaper dispensing device
shall be removed by the village.
   C.   The owner of any newspaper dispensing device removed in accordance with
the terms of this chapter shall be responsible for all the expenses of the
removal and storage of such newspaper dispensing device. Should the newspaper
dispensing device fail to be claimed or should the owners fail to pay any money
due the village, after six (6) months, such newspaper dispensing device shall
be disposed of according to law.
   D.   If a newspaper dispensing device is unused for a period of more than
thirty (30) days in that no newspapers, flyers, handbills or other similar
printed materials are placed within the device and offered for sale or for
distribution at no cost, the newspaper dispensing device shall be considered
abandoned by the owner or permittee. It is a violation of this chapter for the
owner or permittee to abandon a newspaper dispensing device. In the case of
abandonment, the removal procedures of this section shall then be followed.
(Ord. 05-2341, 3-21-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
8-4-6: EMERGENCY PROVISIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the director of the
building and development department may order the removal of any newspaper
dispensing device from public property after finding that, because of its
location or condition, the device poses an immediate threat to the health,
safety and welfare of the public or a member thereof and the removal may occur
without prior notice to the permittee. In this event, the village shall send
written notice of the removal order to the permittee by certified mail. A
hearing before the village manager shall be held, upon the written request of
the permittee within three (3) business days following the village's receipt of
the permittee's request, for the purpose of determining whether there is a
continued need for the removal. The village manager shall issue a ruling
immediately at the time the hearing is concluded. This decision is appealable
pursuant to the provisions of subsection
8-4-7B of this chapter. (Ord. 05-2341, 3-21-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
8-4-7: APPEAL, PRIVATELY OWNED DEVICES:
   A.   The decision of the director of the building and development department
in refusing to grant or renew a permit shall be appealable. The applicant shall
have the right to appeal the decision to the village board provided that the
applicant files a written notice of appeal, including a statement of the
grounds of appeal, with the village manager, within ten (10) calendar days
after the date of the notice of denial. The village board shall set a hearing
on the appeal at its next regularly scheduled village board meeting and notice
of such time and place shall be given to the applicant by certified mail,
return receipt requested. The village board shall have the power to reverse,
affirm, or modify the original decision. In making its determination, the
village board shall only consider the standards set forth in this chapter. The
decision of the village board shall be rendered the same day as the hearing.
The decision of the village board shall be final.
   B.   The decision of the director of the building and development
department, and the decision of the village manager under section
8-4-6 of this chapter, to revoke a license or remove a newspaper dispensing
device shall be appealable. The applicant shall have the right to appeal the
decision to the village board provided that the applicant files a written
notice of appeal, including a statement of the grounds of appeal, with the
village manager, within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the notice of
removal or revocation or the date of the decision of the village manager under
section
8-4-6 of this chapter. The village board shall set a hearing on the appeal at
its next regularly scheduled village board meeting and notice of such time and
place shall be given to the owner/user of the newspaper dispensing device by
certified mail, return receipt requested. Except for removals under section
8-4-6 of this chapter, the newspaper dispensing device may remain in place
during the appeal period. The village board shall have the power to reverse,
affirm or modify the original decision. In making its determination, the
village board shall only consider the standards set forth in this chapter. The
decision of the village board shall be rendered the same day as the hearing.
The decision of the village board shall be final. (Ord. 05-2341, 3-21-2005,
eff. 6-1-2005)
8-4-8: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
The village board shall revoke a permit issued under the terms of this chapter
after a finding of guilt for any of the following causes, which shall
constitute violations of this chapter including:
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or any false statement contained in the
application for a permit.
   B.   Violation of any term or condition of the permit granted to the
permittee.
   C.   Violation of any term, condition or provision of this chapter or any
other chapter of this code. (Ord. 05-2341, 3-21-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
8-4-9: ENFORCEMENT:
Except as otherwise specifically stated herein, the director of the building
and development department, and his or her designees, shall be responsible for
enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 05-2341, 3-21-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
8-4-10: PENALTIES:
Any person or entity who shall be guilty of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A
separate offense shall be deemed committed for every day a violation continues.
(Ord. 05-2341, 3-21-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
CHAPTER 5
WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Plumbing Requirements
8-5-3: Service Connections; Deposits And Fees
8-5-4: Resale Of Water
8-5-5: Impure Water
8-5-6: Water Supply
8-5-7: Service Lines
8-5-8: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-5-9: Cross Connection Control Program
8-5-10: Penalty
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be found in the definitions section of chapter 10 of this
title, as amended.
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
DIRECTOR: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Approving Authority: The president of the village board.
Ordinance: The ordinance which enacted this title and which was approved by the
village president and board of trustees.
Village: The village of Western Springs.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
STATE GRANT: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois antipollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
STATE LOAN: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of sewerage works as provided for by the Illinois antipollution
bond act and for making such loans with the secretary of state of the state of
Illinois.
TYPES OF CHARGES:
Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system.
Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of loan, bond, etc. outstanding.
Local Capital Cost Charge: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances, which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
Surcharge: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt service
charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength
than the concentration values established in chapter 10 of this title.
Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
USER TYPES:
Commercial User: Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments
or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
Industrial Users: Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing activities
involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of substance
into products.
Institutional/Governmental User: Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments,
and permanent multi-family dwellings.
User Class: The type of user "residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial", or "industrial" as defined herein. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
8-5-2: PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS:
No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which the plumbing does
not comply with the provisions of the ordinances relating thereto; provided,
that water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings,
subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
8-5-3: SERVICE CONNECTIONS; DEPOSITS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit To Connect; Deposits And Fees: No connection with a water main
shall be made without a permit being issued and twenty four (24) hours' notice
having been given to the department of public works. The fees and deposits for
such permits shall be as prescribed in title 9, chapter 1 of this code. All
such connections shall be made by or under the supervision of the department of
public works.
   B.   Meter And Shutoff Box Required; Inspection: Before connection is made
with the water distribution system, the premises to be served must be equipped
with a meter and shutoff box properly installed on the service pipe, as
provided in this chapter. No installation shall be covered until it has been
inspected by the department of public works and found to be satisfactory. (Ord.
03-2233, 4-21-2003)
8-5-4: RESALE OF WATER:
No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the
village water supply to any premises other than that for which application has
been made and the meter installed, except in case of emergency. (Ord. 03-2233,
4-21-2003)
8-5-5: IMPURE WATER:
   A.   Authority To Establish Rules And Regulations: The department of code
enforcement shall have the power to make such rules for the handling, storing,
delivery and inspection of water to be sold for domestic use as shall from time
to time be necessary to prevent the distribution, for domestic purposes, of any
impure water or water that is contaminated either chemically or bacterially.
Any refusal or neglect to obey such lawful rule shall be punishable as a
violation of this chapter.
   B.   Compliance With State Requirements: No water shall be sold or offered
for sale for drinking or other domestic purposes which does not conform to the
standards prescribed by the Illinois department of public health. (Ord. 03-
2233, 4-21-2003)
8-5-6: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Water Supply Emergency: The president or the village manager is duly
authorized, if he or she should find and determine that a water supply shortage
exists in the village, to meet the health, sanitary, safety, fire protection
and public welfare needs of the village and its citizens, to declare that a
water supply emergency exists and to prohibit or restrict the drawing of water
from the water supply lines of the village or use of such water for any of the
following purposes during such emergency period:
      1.   Sprinkling or irrigation of lawns and gardens.
      2.   Car washing.
      3.   Air conditioning or cooling.
      4.   Commercial or industrial uses beyond requirements for sanitation or
preserving health.
      5.   Any other use that is not directly connected with the preservation
of health, sanitation, safety or public welfare. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
8-5-7: SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Installation Of Service Lines: All service lines from the mains to the
premises served shall be installed by a licensed plumber who shall provide a
copy of said license approved by the state and at the cost to the owner of
property to be served or the applicant for the service. Such installation shall
be under the supervision of the department of public works. All new lines
serving a building within the village shall use type "K" pipe and be one inch
(1") or greater.
   B.   Specifications For Service Lines: No service line shall be installed
unless it conforms to the specification of the village's plumbing code (title
9, chapter 4 of this code) as amended, which is kept on file in the office of
the department of code enforcement.
   C.   Maintenance: It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
maintain, in good repair, the entire length of his service line from the
premises to the supply main. Maintenance shall include any new replacement.
   D.   Water Leaks:
      1.   Reports Required: Every owner or other person discovering or
repairing any leak in the water supply or water distribution system of any
building or premises shall report the fact as soon as possible to the
department of public works. The report, which may be made orally, shall give
the date, the name of the person discovering and repairing the leak, its size
and location, its duration and, if possible, the rate of flow when discovered.
      2.   Repair Of Leaks: All repairs of leaks from the water main to the
premises served shall be made by and at the expense of the owner of said
premises served. All expenses for metered water lost due to a leak is the
responsibility of the owner. The village may, in the case of emergency, repair
any service pipes, and if this is done, the owner of said premises shall
reimburse the village for one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of said
repairs.
   E.   Excavations: Excavations for installing service pipes shall be made in
compliance with the provisions of this code relating to excavations in streets
1 ; provided, that it shall be unlawful to place any service pipe in the same
excavation with, or directly over, any drainpipe or sewer pipe.
   F.   Shutoff Boxes: Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every
service pipe and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line
where this is practicable. Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily
accessible and shall be protected from frost. The shutoff box shall be two and
one-half inches (21/2") in diameter the entire length.
   G.   Testing Meters:
      1.   Upon request of the customer, or as directed by the department of
public works, village water meters shall be removed and replaced with a similar
meter. The removed meter shall then be tested and the results given to the
customer upon request. If the meter replacement is initiated by the customer
and the meter test results indicate an accuracy rate between ninety eight and
one- half percent (98.5%) and one hundred one and one-half percent (101.5%) at
a two (2) gpm rate, the customer shall reimburse the village for the cost of
the test.
      2.   All persons shall grant access to the village meter within two (2)
weeks of notification. Failure to grant access is a violation of this code and
may result in penalties as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Failure to grant access may also result in termination of
water service as determined by the department of public works or department of
finance. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-9 of this title.
8-5-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Tampering With Water System: It shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by the village to tamper with, alter or injure any part of the
village waterworks system or any meter.
   B.   Water Wells: The installation or use of private water wells within the
village is prohibited.
   C.    Outdoor Watering Restrictions: Outdoor watering shall be prohibited
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
daily, beginning Memorial Day and concluding on Labor Day of each year. (Ord.
03-2233, 4-21-2003; amd. Ord. 24-3188, 4-22-2024)
8-5-9: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM:
   A.   Installation: All plumbing installed within the jurisdiction of the
village shall be installed in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77
Illinois administrative code 890. If in accordance with the Illinois plumbing
code or in the judgment of the cross connection control device operator an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply, the department of public works or village plumbing inspector will
give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such
an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the
Illinois plumbing code and the Illinois environmental protection agency and all
applicable local regulations and shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois plumbing
code, Illinois environmental protection agency and local regulations.
   B.   Private, Auxiliary Or Emergency Water Supply: No person shall establish
or permit to be established or maintain or permit to be maintained any
connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than
the regular public water supply of the village enters the supply or
distribution system of the village, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and the use of such supply shall have
been approved by the village plumbing inspector and the Illinois environmental
protection agency.
   C.   Required Surveys And Investigations: It shall be the duty of the
village plumbing inspector to cause surveys and investigations to be made of
commercial, industrial and other properties served by the public water supply
to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the public water supply may
exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public record
and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years or as often as the plumbing
inspector shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and
available for review for a period of at least five (5) years. The cost of the
inspection shall be borne by the water customer whose property is inspected.
   D.   Inspections; Entry Powers: The approved cross connection control device
inspector shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property
served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the
village for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross
connections, and the village plumbing inspector or his authorized agent shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time any properties served by
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the village for
the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the
required cross connection control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessee or
occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the plumbing inspector any
information which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or
water use on such property. The refusal of such information when demanded
shall, within the discretion of the village plumbing inspector, be deemed
evidence of a presence of improper connections as provided in this chapter.
   E.   Violations: The village plumbing inspector is authorized and directed
to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water
service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions
of this chapter is known to exist and to take other such precautionary measures
as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination to the
public water supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and until a reconnection fee of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) is paid to the village. Immediate disconnection
with verbal notice can be effected when the village plumbing inspector is
assured that the imminent danger of harmful contamination to the public water
supply or potential damage to the water distribution system exists. Such action
shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent
actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply;
provided, that in the reasonable opinion of the plumbing inspector or the
Illinois environmental protection agency, such action is required to prevent
actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply or
potential damage to the water distribution system. Neither the village or
village plumbing inspector or their agents or assigns shall be liable to any
customer for any injury, damages or loss of revenue which may result from
termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of
this chapter, whether or not said termination was with or without notice.
   F.   Responsibility For Cleanup Costs: The customer responsible for back
siphoned material or contamination through back flow, if contamination of the
potable water supply system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an
improperly installed, maintained or repaired device or a device which has been
bypassed, shall bear the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
8-5-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day on
which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
CHAPTER 6
SEWER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Definitions
8-6-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-6-3: Building Sewers And Connections
8-6-4: Use Of The Public Sewers
8-6-5: Protection Of Sewage Works From Damage
8-6-6: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-6-7: Wastewater Service Charges
8-6-8: Penalties
8-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
Federal Act: The federal clean water act (33 USC et seq.) as amended, (Pub. L.
95-217).
Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title 11 – grants for
construction of treatment works of the act and implementing regulations.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Approving Authority: The president of the village board.
Ordinance: This ordinance.
Village: The village of Western Springs.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
administrator, or, where appropriated by the director, after enactment of the
federal clean water act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the federal act.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES, AND APPURTENANCES:
Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
Combined Sewer: A sewer, which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, and surface and ground water drainage.
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the village
of Western Springs. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village
of Western Springs boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately
discharge into the village of Western Springs sanitary (or combined sewer
system), even though those sewers may not have been constructed with village of
Western Springs funds.
Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and ground waters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
Sewer Service Line: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Storm Water Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
State Grant: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois antipollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
TREATMENT:
Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
TYPES OF CHARGES:
Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system.
Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of loan, bond, etc. outstanding.
Local Capital Cost Charge: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances, which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewerage system.
Surcharge: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt service
charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength
than the concentration values established in chapter 10 of this title.
Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
Wastewater Service Charge: The charge per quarter or month levied on all users
of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined
in chapter 10 of this title and shall consist of the total or the basic user
charge, the local capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
USER TYPES:
Commercial User: Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments
or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the village of Western
Springs representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
Industrial Users: Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing activities
involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of substance
into products.
Institutional/Governmental User: Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments,
and permanent multi-family dwellings.
User Class: The type of user "residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial", or "industrial" as defined herein.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
Effluent Criteria: Are defined in any applicable "NPDES Permit".
Floatable Oil: Is oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that:
A.   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average workday;
or
B.   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the
municipal system receiving the waste; or
C.   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the federal act; or
D.   Is found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the issuance
of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the waste,
to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the "IEPA Division Of
Laboratories Manual Of Laboratory Methods".
Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will flow freely under the flow conditions that normally prevail in sewers,
with no particle greater than one-half (1 centimeters) in any dimension.
Sewage: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
Suspended Solids (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device, quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the "IEPA Division Of
Laboratories Manual Of Laboratory Methods".
Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
Water Quality Standards: Are defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
8-6-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village of Western Springs or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village
of Western Springs, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   C.   The owner of any residences, buildings, structures or properties used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within
the village of Western Springs and abutting on any street, alley, or right of
way in which there is now located or may in the future be located any public
sanitary (or combined) sewer of the village of Western Springs, is required at
his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly into the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days received date of
official notice to do so. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
8-6-3: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the department of code
enforcement.
   B.   The disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
   C.   The owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
attached to ordinance 03-2233 on file in the office of the village clerk. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent to the operation of the proposed sewer
connection and necessary to ensure compliance with all federal, state and
village laws and regulations, as determined by the director of the department
of code enforcement.
   D.   A permit and inspection fee as specified in title 9, chapter 1, of this
code for a residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be paid to the
village at the time the application is filed. The applicant, as a condition of
permit authorization, must provide in writing as part of the application,
sufficient information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics,
and type of activity.
   E.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated by the applicant that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   F.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the "sewer service line" shall be borne by the applicant or property owner. The
owner shall indemnify the village of Western Springs from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the "sewer
service line".
   G.   A separate and independent "sewer service line" shall be provided for
every building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on
an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one "sewer service line".
   H.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a sewer
service line, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the village building and plumbing code or other applicable
provisions and regulations of this code. In the absence of code provisions or
in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the "American Society Of Testing Materials", "Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual Of Practice No. 9", and "Standard Specifications For
Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois" shall also apply and govern such
work.
   I.   Connection To Village System: No person(s) shall make connection of
roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, sump pumps, or
other sources of surface runoff or ground water to any building sewer or
building drain, which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to village
sanitary sewerage system.
   J.   Conformance With Building And Plumbing Code: The connection of the
building sewer into the village sanitary or combined sewer shall conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other applicable provisions
and regulations of this code.
   K.   Notification: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the department of code enforcement when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the department of code enforcement.
   L.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored to its original condition in a manner
satisfactory to the director of the department of code enforcement.
   M.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may not be used in connection
with a new building. The existing service stub may be used only when they are
found, on examination by the building inspector, to meet all requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
   N.   Maintenance Of Private Sewer Line: It shall be the responsibility of
the property owner to maintain the entire length of the private sewer line from
its connection with the village's sewer main line in the village right of way
to and across the owner's property. All repairs to the private sewer line,
including the connection to the village's sewer main line in the village right
of way, shall be made by and at the expense of the private property owner.
(Ord. 06-2379, 1-23-2006)
   O.   Disconnection From Combined Sewer: All inflow sources connected to
combined sewers shall be disconnected within six (6) months after written
notification by the village, provided that the inflow source can be reconnected
to an available storm sewer. (Ord. 06-2408, 9-25-2006)
8-6-4: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet designated and approved by the department of municipal
services.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the department of municipal services that such wastes can harm
either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the department of municipal services will give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum
limits established by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0 and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the department of municipal services for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the department of municipal services as necessary after
treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state,
federal, or other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the
receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the department of municipal
services in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligrams
per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the department of municipal
services in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 grams per liter at any time except
as permitted by the department of municipal services in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations.
      11.   Materials, which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection C of this section, and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June 26,
1978, and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the director of
the department of municipal services may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the department of
municipal services may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment by the applicant or owner to the village to cover
the added costs of handling and treating the wastes not covered by existing
taxes or sewer charges. The design and installation any such plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the director of the
department of municipal services, and subject to the requirements of all
applicable federal, state and village ordinances and regulations. The applicant
or property owner shall pay to the village the costs it incurs (consultant
fees, engineer fees, determined expenses) in reviewing the plans for such
plants and facilities.
   F.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the department of municipal services they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
director of the department of municipal services, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   G.   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
   H.   Each business and commercial/industrial property shall be required to
install a control manhole and, when required by the director of the department
of municipal services, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the sewer service line to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the department of municipal services. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his/her expense, and shall be
maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   I.   The owner of any property serviced by a sewer service line carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the water and waste discharge. The number, type, and
frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as
stipulated by the village of Western Springs, but no less than once per year
each business must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
village standards is being met. Under emergency circumstances as determined by
the director of the department of municipal services, the owner, at its
expense, shall perform such testing and analyses upon the request of the
village. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analyses to the village of Western Springs at such times and in such a manner
as prescribed by the village of Western Springs. The owner shall bear the
expense of all measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the village of
Western Springs. At such times as deemed necessary the village of Western
Springs reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
outside laboratory service.
   J.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "IEPA Division Of Laboratories Manual Of
Laboratory Methods", and shall be determined at the control manhole provided,
or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required the control manhole shall be considered to be
the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-
2003)
8-6-5: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works system. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct and subject to the penalties provided for in subsection
8-6-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
8-6-6: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The department of municipal services and other duly authorized
employees of the village of Western Springs, the Illinois environmental
protection agency, and the U.S. environmental protection agency, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The director of the department
of municipal services or his representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste
treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this section, the director of the department of municipal
services or duly authorized employees of the village of Western Springs, the
Illinois environmental protection agency, and the U.S. environmental protection
agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the business and the business shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village of Western Springs employees and the village of Western Springs shall
indemnify the business against liability claims and demands for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the business and growing out of the gauging
and sampling operating, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure
of the company to maintain conditions as required in section
8-6-4 of this chapter. The department of municipal services and other duly
authorized employees or agents of the village of Western Springs, the Illinois
environmental protection agency, and the U.S. environmental protection agency
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the village of Western Springs holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works system lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
8-6-7: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the director of the department of municipal services for the purpose of
determining the volume of water obtained from these other sources. Devices for
measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by the director of the
department of municipal services if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records.
      2.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person at his/her expense. Following
approval and installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is
canceled, without the consent of the director of the department of municipal
services. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
8-6-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter should
be served by the village of Western Springs with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. The village of Western
Springs may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation
of any provision of this chapter.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A of this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount as specified in title 1,
chapter 4 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
CHAPTER 7
RAILROADS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Tracks To Conform To Street Grade
8-7-2: Obstructing Street Crossings
8-7-3: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-7-4: Permission For Railroad Construction
8-7-1: TRACKS TO CONFORM TO STREET GRADE:
All railroad companies and owners of any railroad track shall raise or lower
their railroad tracks, lying within the limits of the Village, so as to conform
to any grade which may at any time be established for any street, alley or
highway. Where said track runs across or lengthwise of any such street, alley
or highway, they shall keep the top of the rails of such tracks on a level with
the established grade of the streets and avenues, or the grade or grades that
may hereafter be established, and keep said streets in good order and repair so
that such tracks may be crossed at any place in such street, alley or highway.
Where they cross any street, they shall keep the same paved between the rails
from curb line to curb line of such street, alley or highway. All railroad
companies, and the owner of any railroad track or tracks, shall make and keep
open and keep in repair ditches and side drains, sewers and culverts along and
under their railroad tracks so that polluted or stagnant water cannot stand on
their grounds or right of way, and in such manner that the natural drainage of
the adjacent property shall not be impeded. (1997 Code)
8-7-2: OBSTRUCTING STREET CROSSINGS:
   A.   Time Limit; Exception: No railroad company, locomotive engineer, train
conductor or other person shall cause or allow a locomotive engine or car or
train of cars to stop in or remain upon any street or railroad crossing within
the Village for a longer period than ten (10) minutes at any one time;
provided, however, that if a collision or unavoidable accident should take
place at any of the crossings aforesaid, reasonable time shall be allowed for
the removal of any obstruction that may be caused thereby.
   B.   Removal Of Obstruction From Crossings: Should any street or railroad
crossing in the Village be and remain occupied and obstructed, in whole or in
part, by any train of railroad cars for the period of ten (10) minutes, it
shall be the duty of each and every railroad company upon whose line of road
such obstruction may occur, its agents or employees, on the expiration of said
ten (10) minutes, when from any cause the entire train cannot be propelled or
removed to any side of any street occupied or obstructed as aforesaid, to cause
such cars as may be on or near said crossing to be uncoupled, and some one
division of the train, as thus made, removed off from such street and railroad
crossing so as to leave said street entirely free and unobstructed, and said
train, when again coupled, shall be removed forthwith off from any such
crossing as aforesaid. (1997 Code)
8-7-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Cars Or Materials On Streets: No person shall place or deposit in the
street or any other public place any car, wagon, lumber, wood, coal or other
material, or load or unload any railroad car from the street, or erect or
maintain any switch house or other building upon any street, highway or alley
within the Village limits.
   B.   Switch Rail: No frog, switch rail or any part of a side track or
turnout shall be placed in or across any portion of a public street, nor shall
what is known as a "running switch" be permitted along or across a public
street. (1997 Code)
8-7-4: PERMISSION FOR RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION:
No person shall, directly or through any agent or employee, lay, construct,
operate or attempt to lay, construct or operate any railroad of any character
in, along, under, above or across any of the public streets within the
corporate limits of the Village. The permission to lay, construct or operate
any railroad in and along, under, above or across any of the public streets or
alleys within the corporate limits of the Village shall be given and granted
only by ordinance of the Village. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 8
TELECOMMUNICATIONS 1
SECTION:
8-8-1: Purpose
8-8-2: Definitions
8-8-3: General Requirements
8-8-4: Application To Existing Franchise Ordinances And Agreements
8-8-5: Registration Of Telecommunications Carriers And Providers
8-8-6: Telecommunications Licensing Requirements
8-8-7: Telecommunications Franchise
8-8-8: Fees And Compensation
8-8-9: Conditions Of Grant
8-8-10: Construction Standards
8-8-11: Penalties And Remedies
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 11, Chapter 1 of this Code for cable communications franchise
  agreement.
8-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to:
   A.   Establish a local policy concerning telecommunications providers and
services.
   B.   Establish clear local guidelines, standards and time frames for the
exercise of local authority with respect to the regulation of
telecommunications providers and services.
   C.   Promote competition in telecommunications.
   D.   Minimize unnecessary local regulation of telecommunications providers
and services.
   E.   Encourage the provision of advanced and competitive telecommunications
services on the widest possible basis to the businesses, institutions and
residents of the Village.
   F.   Permit and manage reasonable access to the public ways of the Village
for telecommunications purposes on a competitively neutral basis.
   G.   Conserve the limited physical capacity of the public ways held in
public trust by the Village.
   H.   Assure that the Village's current and ongoing costs of granting and
regulating private access to and use of the public ways are fully paid by the
persons seeking such access and causing such costs.
   I.   Secure fair and reasonable compensation to the Village and the
residents of the Village for permitting private use of the public ways.
   J.   Assure that all telecommunications carriers providing facilities or
services within the Village comply with the ordinances, rules and regulations
of the Village.
   K.   Assure that the Village can continue to fairly and responsibly protect
the public health, safety and welfare.
   L.   Enable the Village to discharge its public trust consistent with
rapidly evolving Federal and State regulatory policies, industry competition
and technological development. (1997 Code)
8-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, and the interpretation and enforcement
thereof, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings,
unless the context of the sentence in which they are used shall indicate
otherwise:
AFFILIATE: A person that (directly or indirectly) owns or controls, is owned or
controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with another person.
ANNUAL GROSS REVENUE: (Reserved)
CABLE ACT: The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 U.S.C. § 532 et
seq., as now and hereafter amended.
CABLE OPERATOR: A telecommunications carrier providing or offering to provide
"cable service" within the Village as that term is defined in the Cable Act.
CABLE SERVICE: Shall have the same meaning provided by the Cable Act.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Western Springs.
EXCESS CAPACITY: The volume or capacity in any existing or future duct,
conduit, manhole, hand hole or other utility facility within the public way
that is or will be available for use for additional telecommunications
facilities.
FCC OR FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION: The Federal administrative agency, or
lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications
carriers, services and providers on a national level.
ICC OR ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMMISSION: The State administrative agency, or lawful
successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications carriers,
services and providers in the State of Illinois.
OTHER WAYS: The highways, streets, alleys, utility easements or other rights of
way within the Village but under the jurisdiction and control of a governmental
entity other than the Village.
OVERHEAD FACILITIES: Utility poles, utility facilities and telecommunications
facilities located above the surface of the ground, including the underground
supports and foundations for such facilities.
PERSON: Means and includes corporations, companies, associations, joint stock
companies or associations, firms, partnerships, limited liability companies and
individuals and includes their lessors, trustees and receivers.
PUBLIC STREET: Any highway, street, alley or other public right of way for
motor vehicle travel under the jurisdiction and control of the Village which
has been acquired, established, dedicated or devoted to highway purposes not
inconsistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all "public streets" and "utility easements", as
those terms are defined herein, now or hereafter owned by the Village, but only
to the extent of the Village's right, title, interest or authority to grant a
license or franchise to occupy and use such streets and easements for
telecommunications facilities.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
SURPLUS SPACE: That portion of the usable space on a utility pole which has the
necessary clearance from other pole users, as required by the orders and
regulations of the Illinois commerce commission, to allow its use by a
telecommunications carrier for a pole attachment.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Means and includes every person that directly or
indirectly owns, controls, operates or manages plant, equipment or property
within the village, used or to be used for the purpose of offering
telecommunications service.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including,
but not limited to, cables, wires, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennas,
electronics and other appurtenances used or to be used to transmit, receive,
distribute, provide or offer telecommunications services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Means and includes every person who provides
telecommunications service over telecommunications facilities without any
ownership or management control of the facilities.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The providing or offering for rent, sale or lease,
or in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of voice, data,
image, graphic and video programming information between or among points by
wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities, with or without benefit of any closed transmission medium.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM: See definition of Telecommunications Facilities.
UNDERGROUND FACILITIES: Utility and telecommunications facilities located under
the surface of the ground, excluding the underground foundations or supports
for overhead facilities.
USABLE SPACE: The total distance between the top of a utility pole and the
lowest possible attachment point that provides the minimum allowable vertical
clearance as specified in the orders and regulations of the Illinois commerce
commission.
UTILITY EASEMENT: Any easement owned by the village and acquired, established,
dedicated or devoted for public utility purposes not inconsistent with
telecommunications facilities.
UTILITY FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including, but not
limited to, the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, cables, wires, plant and
equipment located under, on or above the surface of the ground within the
public ways of the village and used or to be used for the purpose of providing
utility or telecommunications services.
VILLAGE: The village of Western Springs, Illinois.
VILLAGE PROPERTY: Means and includes all real property owned by the village,
other than "public streets" and "utility easements" as those terms are defined
herein, and all property held in a proprietary capacity by the village, which
are not subject to right of way licensing and franchising as provided in this
chapter. (1997 Code)
8-8-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration: Except as otherwise provided herein, all
telecommunications carriers and providers engaged in the business of
transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications originating or
terminating in the village shall register with the village pursuant to section
8-8-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Telecommunications License: Except as otherwise provided herein, any
telecommunications carriers who desire to construct, install, operate,
maintain, or otherwise locate telecommunications facilities in, under, over or
across any public way of the village for the sole purpose of providing
telecommunications service to persons and areas outside the village shall first
obtain a license granting the use of such public ways from the village pursuant
to section
8-8-6 of this chapter.
   C.   Telecommunications Franchise: Except as otherwise provided herein, any
telecommunications carriers who desire to construct, install, operate, maintain
or otherwise locate telecommunications facilities in, under, over or across any
public way of the village, and to also provide telecommunications service to
persons or areas in the village, shall first obtain a franchise granting the
use of such public ways from the village pursuant to section
8-8-7 of this chapter.
   D.   Cable Television Franchise: Except as otherwise provided herein, any
telecommunications carrier who desires to construct, install, operate, maintain
or locate telecommunications facilities in any public way of the village for
the purpose of providing cable service to persons in the village shall first
obtain a cable franchise from the village as provided in title 11, chapter 1 of
this code. (1997 Code)
   E.   Compliance With Other Regulations: All telecommunication facilities
must comply with all applicable federal, state, county and village regulations,
including the provisions of title 10, chapter 4, part V of the development
control ordinance, if a tower or antenna is proposed. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
8-8-4: APPLICATION TO EXISTING FRANCHISE ORDINANCES AND AGREEMENTS:
This chapter shall have no effect on any existing franchise ordinance or
franchise agreement until:
   A.   The expiration of said franchise ordinance or agreement.
   B.   An amendment to an unexpired franchise ordinance or franchise
agreement, unless both parties agree to defer full compliance to a specific
date not later than the present expiration date. (1997 Code)
8-8-5: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS AND PROVIDERS:
   A.   Registration Required: All telecommunications carriers and providers
that offer or provide any telecommunications service for a fee directly to the
public, either within the village or outside the corporate limits from
telecommunications facilities within the village, shall register with the
village pursuant to this section on forms to be provided by the village clerk
which shall include the following:
      1.   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including any
affiliates.
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the officer, agent or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration statement.
      3.   A description of registrant's existing or proposed
telecommunications facilities within the village.
      4.   A description of the telecommunications service that the registrant
intends to offer or provide, or is currently offering or providing, to persons,
firms, businesses or institutions within the village.
      5.   Information sufficient to determine whether the registrant is
subject to public way licensing or franchising under this Chapter.
      6.   Information sufficient to determine whether the transmission,
origination or receipt of the telecommunications services provided or to be
provided by the registrant constitutes an occupation or privilege subject to
any Municipal telecommunications tax, utility message tax or other occupation
tax imposed by the Village 1 .
      7.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied
for and received any certificate of authority required by the Illinois Commerce
Commission to provide telecommunications services or facilities within the
Village.
      8.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied
for and received any construction permit, operating license or other approvals
required by the Federal Communications Commission to provide telecommunications
services or facilities within the Village.
      9.   Such other information as the Village Manager's office may
reasonably require.
   B.   Registration Fee: Each application for registration as a
telecommunications carrier or provider shall be accompanied by a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Purpose Of Registration: The purpose of registration under this Section
is to:
      1.   Provide the Village with accurate and current information concerning
the telecommunications carriers and providers who offer or provide
telecommunications services within the Village or that own or operate
telecommunication facilities within the Village.
      2.   Assist the Village in enforcement of this Chapter.
      3.   Assist the Village in the collection and enforcement of any
Municipal taxes, franchise fees, license fees or charges that may be due the
Village.
      4.   Assist the Village in monitoring compliance with local, State and
Federal laws. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 3, Chapter 2 of this Code.
8-8-6: TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: A telecommunications license shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier who desires to occupy specific public ways of the
Village for the sole purpose of providing telecommunications services to
persons or areas outside the Village.
      1.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Chapter.
   B.   Application For License: Any person that desires a telecommunications
license pursuant to this Section shall file an application with the Village
which shall include the following information:
      1.   The identity of the license applicant, including all affiliates of
the applicant.
      2.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by licensee over its telecommunications facilities.
      3.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
licensee to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
      4.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of
the facilities to be located within the Village, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The location of all overhead and underground public utility,
telecommunication, cable, water, sewer drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route.
         c.   The location(s), if any, for interconnection with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
         d.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate. Any trees that are temporarily removed or relocated shall
be maintained and guaranteed for not less than one year by the permittee. Any
of these trees that are determined to be unacceptable after one year by the
Village shall be replaced as directed by the Village. Underground installation
will be designed and installed in such a manner as to minimize the disturbance
and damage to the root system of existing trees, roadways or other Village
facilities. Plans will be reviewed so as to determine if augering or boring
under or around public facilities will be required.
         e.   That all proposed plans for the installation of underground or
overhead facilities shall be reviewed and approved by an arborist certified by
the International Society of Arboriculture.
      5.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence
that surplus space is available for locating its telecommunications facilities
on existing utility poles along the proposed route.
      6.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing
ducts or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      7.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
         a.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits.
         b.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits
after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      8.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion date.
      9.   A preliminary traffic-control plan in accordance with the IDOT
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
      10.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to
construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
      11.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the
telecommunications facilities and services described in the application.
      12.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services.
      13.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to Section
8-8-8 of this Chapter.
      14.   Such other and further information as may be required by the
Village Manager's office.
   C.   Determination By The Village: Within sixty (60) days after receiving a
complete application under subsection B hereof, the Village Manager's office
shall issue a written determination granting or denying the application in
whole or in part, applying the following standards. If the application is
denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for denial.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's
proposed facilities.
      4.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the license is granted.
      5.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the license is granted.
      6.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
      7.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
      8.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
license is granted.
      9.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed facilities.
      10.   Applicable Federal and State telecommunications laws, regulations
and policies.
      11.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
public ways will serve the community interest.
   D.   Extension Of Determination By The Village: The Village reserves the
right to extend the time period in which it shall issue a written determination
granting or denying the application in whole or in part an additional sixty
(60) days. Written notice containing the reasons for the extension shall be
provided to the applicant. The decision to extend the time period is at the
sole discretion of the Village.
   E.   Agreement: No license granted hereunder shall be effective until the
applicant and the Village have executed a written agreement setting forth the
particular terms and provisions under which the license to occupy and use
public ways of the Village will be granted.
   F.   Nonexclusive Grant: No license granted under this Section shall confer
any exclusive right, privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the
public ways of the Village for delivery of telecommunications services or any
other purposes.
   G.   Rights Granted: No license granted under this Section shall convey any
right, title or interest in the public ways but shall be deemed a license only
to use and occupy the public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in
the grant. Further, no license shall be construed as any warranty of title.
   H.   Term Of Grant: Unless otherwise specified in a license agreement, a
telecommunications license granted hereunder shall be in effect for a term of
five (5) years.
   I.   License Route: A telecommunications license granted under this Section
shall be limited to a grant of specific public ways and defined portions
thereof.
   J.   Location Of Facilities: Unless otherwise specified in a license
agreement, all facilities shall be constructed, installed and located in
accordance with the following terms and conditions:
      1.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists within such utility
facility.
      2.   A licensee with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing
utility poles only, and then only if surplus space is available.
      3.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the Village, a licensee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
      4.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the Village, a grantee that currently occupies the same public
way shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of
time, which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent
extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as determined by an engineer
employed by the Village, such relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize
the disruption of the public ways.
      5.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity
of a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future telecommunications carriers.
   K.   Construction Permits: All licensees are required to obtain construction
permits for telecommunications facilities as required in Section
8-8-10 of this Chapter; provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall
prohibit the Village and a licensee from agreeing to alternative plan review,
permit and construction procedures in a license agreement, provided such
alternative procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for
responsible construction practices.
   L.   Compensation To Village: Each license granted under this Section is
subject to the Village's right, which is expressly reserved, to annually fix a
fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for the property rights granted to
the licensee, provided, nothing in this Section shall prohibit the Village and
a licensee from agreeing to the compensation to be paid.
   M.   Service To Village Users: A licensee may be permitted to offer or
provide telecommunications services to persons or areas within the Village upon
submitting an application for approval pursuant to Section
8-8-7 of this Chapter.
   N.   Amendment Of Grant:
      1.   A new license application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend or locate its
telecommunications facilities in public ways of the Village which are not
included in a license previously granted under this Chapter.
      2.   If ordered by the Village to locate or relocate its
telecommunications facilities in public ways not included in a previously
granted license, the Village shall grant a license amendment without further
application.
   O.   Renewal Applications: A grantee that desires to renew its license under
this Section shall, not more than one hundred eighty (180) days nor less than
ninety (90) days before expiration of the current license, file an application
with the Village for renewal of its license which shall include the following
information:
      1.   The information required pursuant to subsection B hereof.
      2.   Any information required pursuant to the license agreement between
the Village and the grantee.
   P.   Renewal Determinations: Within sixty (60) days after receiving a
complete application under subsection B hereof, the corporate authorities shall
issue a written determination granting or denying the renewal application in
whole or in part, applying the following standards. If the renewal application
is denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
      4.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and
the license agreement.
      5.   Applicable Federal, State and local telecommunications laws, rules
and policies.
      6.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to
use the public ways will serve the community interest.
   Q.   Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal: No license shall be
renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the licensee's performance
of the license agreement, or of the requirements of this Chapter, have been
cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the grantee has
been approved by the Village. (1997 Code; amd. Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022)
8-8-7: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE:
   A.   Franchise Required: A telecommunications franchise shall be required of
any telecommunications carrier who desires to occupy public ways of the Village
and to provide telecommunications services to any person or area in the
Village.
   B.   Application For Franchise: Any person that desires a telecommunications
franchise pursuant to this Section shall file an application with the Village
which shall include the following information:
      1.   The identity of the franchise applicant, including all affiliates of
the applicant.
2.A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be offered
or provided by the franchise applicant over its existing or proposed
facilities.
      3.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
franchisee to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
      4.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of
the facilities to be located within the Village, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The location of all overhead and underground public utility,
telecommunication, cable, water, sewer drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route.
         c.   The location(s), if any, for interconnection with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
         d.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate. Any trees that are temporarily removed or relocated shall
be maintained and guaranteed for not less than one year by the permittee. Any
of these trees that are determined to be unacceptable after one year by the
Village shall be replaced as directed by the Village. Underground installation
will be designed and installed in such a manner as to minimize the disturbance
and damage to the root system of existing trees, roadways or other Village
facilities. Plans will be reviewed so as to determine if augering or boring
under or around public facilities will be required.
         e.   That all proposed plans for the installation of underground or
overhead facilities shall be reviewed and approved by an arborist certified by
the International Society of Arboriculture.
      5.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence
that surplus space is available for locating its telecommunications facilities
on existing utility poles along the proposed route.
      6.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing
ducts or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      7.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
         a.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits;
         b.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits
after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      8.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion dates.
      9.   A preliminary traffic-control plan in accordance with the Illinois
Department of Transportation (IDOT) Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
      10.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to
construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
      11.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the
telecommunications facilities and services described in the application.
      12.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services.
      13.   Whether the applicant intends to provide cable service, video dial
tone service or other video programming service and sufficient information to
determine whether such service is subject to cable franchising.
      14.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing
telecommunications facilities in the Village that applicant intends to use or
lease.
      15.   A description of the services or facilities that the applicant will
offer or make available to the Village and other public, educational and
governmental institutions.
      16.   A description of applicant's access and line extension policies.
      17.   The area or areas of the Village the applicant desires to serve and
a schedule for build-out to the entire franchise area.
      18.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to Section
8-8-8 of this Chapter.
      19.   Such other and further information as may be requested by the
Village Manager's office.
   C.   Determination By The Village: Within sixty (60) days after receiving a
complete application under subsection
8-8-6B of this Chapter, the Village Manager's office shall issue a written
determination granting or denying the application in whole or in part, applying
the following standards. If the application is denied, the written
determination shall include the reasons for denial.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's
proposed facilities.
      4.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the franchise is granted.
      5.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the franchise is granted.
      6.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
      7.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
      8.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
franchise requested is granted.
      9.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed facilities.
      10.   Applicable Federal and State telecommunications laws, regulations
and policies.
      11.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
public ways will serve the community interest.
   D.   Extension Of Determination By The Village: The Village reserves the
right to extend the time period in which they shall issue a written
determination granting or denying the application in whole or in part an
additional sixty (60) days. Written notice containing the reasons for the
extension shall be provided to the applicant. The decision to extend the time
period is at the sole discretion of the Village.
   E.   Agreement: No franchise shall be granted hereunder unless the applicant
and the Village have executed a written agreement setting forth the particular
terms and provisions under which the franchise to occupy and use public ways of
the Village will be granted.
   F.   Nonexclusive Grant: No franchise granted under this Section shall
confer any exclusive right, privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use
the public ways of the Village for delivery of telecommunications services or
any other purposes.
   G.   Term Of Grant: Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, a
telecommunications franchise granted hereunder shall be valid for a term of ten
(10) years.
   H.   Rights Granted: No franchise granted under this Section shall convey
any right, title or interest in the public ways but shall be deemed a franchise
only to use and occupy the public ways for the limited purposes and term stated
in the grant. Further, no franchise shall be construed as any warranty of
title.
   I.   Franchise Territory: A telecommunications franchise granted under this
Section shall be limited to the specific geographic area of the Village to be
served by the franchise grantee and the specific public ways necessary to serve
such areas.
   J.   Location Of Facilities: Unless otherwise specified in a franchise
agreement, all facilities shall be constructed, installed and located in
accordance with the following terms and conditions:
      1.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists within such utility
facility.
      2.   A franchisee with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing
utility poles only, and then only if surplus space is available.
      3.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the Village, a franchisee with permission to occupy the same public way must
also locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
      4.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the Village, a grantee that currently occupies the same public
way shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of
time, which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent
extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as determined by an engineer
employed by the Village, such relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize
the disruption of the public ways.
      5.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity
of a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future carriers.
   K.   Construction Permits: All franchisees are required to obtain
construction permits for telecommunications facilities as required in Section
8-8-10 of this Chapter; provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall
prohibit the Village and a franchisee from agreeing to alternative plan review,
permit and construction procedures in a franchise agreement, provided such
alternative procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for
responsible construction practices.
   L.   Compensation To Village: Each franchise granted under this Section is
subject to the Village's right, which is expressly reserved, to annually fix a
fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for the property rights granted to
the franchisee, provided, nothing in this Section shall prohibit the Village
and a franchisee from agreeing to the compensation to be paid.
   M.   Nondiscrimination: A franchisee shall make its telecommunications
services available to any customer within its franchise area who shall request
such service, without discrimination as to the terms, conditions, rates or
charges for grantee's services; provided, however, that nothing in this Section
shall prohibit a franchisee from making any reasonable classifications among
differently situated customers.
   N.   Service To The Village: A franchisee shall make its telecommunications
services available to the Village at its most favorable rate for similarly
situated users, unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement.
   O.   Amendment Of Grant:
      1.   A new franchise application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend its franchise territory or to
locate its telecommunications facilities in public ways of the Village which
are not included in a franchise previously granted under this Chapter.
      2.   If ordered by the Village to locate or relocate its
telecommunications facilities in public ways not included in a previously
granted franchise, the Village shall grant a franchise amendment without
further application.
   P.   Renewal Applications: A grantee that desires to renew its franchise
under this Section shall, not more than two hundred forty (240) days nor less
than one hundred fifty (150) days before expiration of the current franchise,
file an application with the Village for renewal of its franchise which shall
include the following information:
      1.   The information required pursuant to subsection B hereof.
      2.   Any information required pursuant to the franchise agreement between
the Village and the grantee.
   Q.   Renewal Determinations: Within sixty (60) days after receiving a
complete application under subsection P hereof, the corporate authorities shall
issue a written determination granting or denying the renewal application in
whole or in part, applying the following standards. If the renewal application
is denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
      4.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and
the franchise agreement.
      5.   Applicable Federal, State and local telecommunications laws, rules
and policies.
      6.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to
use the public ways will serve the community interest.
   R.   Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal: No franchise shall be
renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the grantee's performance
of the franchise agreement, or of the requirements of this Chapter, have been
cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the grantee has
been approved by the Village. (1997 Code)
8-8-8: FEES AND COMPENSATION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this Section to provide for the payment
and recovery of all direct and indirect costs and expenses of the Village
related to the enforcement and administration of this Chapter.
   B.   Application, Review And Construction Fee:
      1.   Any applicant for a license or franchise pursuant to Section
8-8-6 or
8-8-7 of this Chapter shall pay a fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
one percent (1%) of the estimated cost of applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities, as certified by the applicant's professional
engineer, whichever is greater, plus any and all direct and indirect costs
incurred by the Village in employing professional consultants that review the
application.
      2.   The application review and construction fee shall be deposited with
the Village as part of the application filed pursuant to Section
8-8-6 or
8-8-7 of this Chapter.
      3.   An applicant whose license or franchise application has been
withdrawn, abandoned or denied shall, within sixty (60) days of its application
review and construction fee written request, be refunded the balance of its
deposit under this Section, less:
         a.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) or one-half of one percent (0.5%)
of the estimated cost of applicant's proposed telecommunications facilities,
whichever is greater, as established pursuant to subsection B1 above, and
         b.   Any and all direct and indirect costs incurred by the Village in
employing professional consultants that review the application.
   C.   Other Village Costs: All license or franchise grantees shall, within
thirty (30) days after written demand therefor, reimburse the Village for all
direct and indirect costs and expenses incurred by the Village in connection
with any modification, amendment, renewal or transfer of the license or
franchise or any license or franchise agreement.
   D.   Reserved Compensation For Public Ways: The Village reserves its right
to annually fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for the property
rights granted to a telecommunications license or franchise grantee. Nothing in
this Section shall prohibit the Village and a grantee from agreeing to the
compensation to be paid for the granted property rights.
   E.   Compensation For Village Property: If the right is granted, by lease,
license, franchise or other manner, to use and occupy Village property for the
installation of telecommunications facilities, the compensation to be paid
shall be fixed by the Village.
   F.   Annual Fees: Unless otherwise agreed in a license or franchise grant
agreement, each license or franchise grantee shall pay an annual license fee to
the Village equal to five hundred dollars ($500.00) as reimbursement for the
Village's costs in connection with reviewing, inspecting and supervising the
use and occupancy of the public ways in behalf of the public and existing or
future users.
   G.   Cable Fees: Cable television franchisees shall be subject to the
franchise fees, payments and costs provided in Title 11, Chapter 1 of this
Code.
   H.   Regulatory Fees And Compensation Not A Tax: The regulatory fees and
costs provided for in this Section, and any compensation charged and paid for
the public ways provided for in subsection D hereof are separate from, and
additional to, any and all Federal, State, local and Village taxes as may be
levied, imposed or due from a telecommunications carrier or provider, its
customers or subscribers, or on account of the lease, sale, delivery or
transmission of telecommunications services. (1997 Code)
8-8-9: CONDITIONS OF GRANT:
   A.   Location Of Facilities: All facilities shall be constructed, installed
and located in accordance with the following terms and conditions, unless
otherwise specified in a license or franchise agreement:
      1.   A grantee shall install its telecommunications facilities within an
existing underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists within
such utility facility.
      2.   A grantee with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing
utility poles only, and then only if surplus space is available. All tree
trimming necessary for overhead line clearance shall be performed under the
direction of an arborist certified by the International Society of
Arboriculture.
      3.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the Village, a grantee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
      4.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the Village, a grantee that currently occupies the same public
way shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of
time, which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent
extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as determined by an engineer
employed by the Village, such relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize
the disruption of the public ways.
      5.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity
of a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future carriers.
   B.   Compliance With JULIE: All license or franchise grantees shall, before
commencing any construction in the public ways, comply with all regulations of
JULIE.
   C.   Construction Permits: All license or franchise grantees are required to
obtain construction permits for telecommunications facilities as required in
Section
8-8-10 of this Chapter. However, nothing in this Section shall prohibit the
Village and a grantee from agreeing to alternative plan review, permit and
construction procedures in a license or franchise agreement, provided such
alternative procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for
responsible construction practices.
   D.   Interference With The Public Ways: No license or franchise grantee may
locate or maintain its telecommunications facilities so as to unreasonably
interfere with the use of the public ways by the Village, by the general public
or by other persons authorized to use or be present in or upon the public ways.
All such facilities shall be moved by the grantee, temporarily or permanently,
as determined by the Village Engineer.
   E.   Damage To Property: No license or franchise grantee nor any person
acting on a grantee's behalf shall take any action or permit any action to be
done which may impair or damage any Village property, public ways of the
Village, other ways or other property located in, on or adjacent thereto.
   F.   Notice Of Work: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, no license or franchise grantee, nor any person acting on the
grantee's behalf, shall commence any nonemergency work in or about the public
ways of the Village or other ways without ten (10) working days' advanced
notice to the Village.
   G.   Repair And Emergency Work: In the event of an unexpected repair or
emergency, a grantee may commence such repair and emergency response work as
required under the circumstances, provided the grantee shall notify the Village
as promptly as possible, before such repair or emergency work or as soon
thereafter as possible, if advance notice is not practicable.
   H.   Maintenance Of Facilities: Each license or franchise grantee shall
maintain its facilities in good and safe condition and in a manner that
complies with all applicable Federal, State and local requirements.
   I.   Relocation Or Removal Of Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the Village, a license or franchise grantee shall, at its
own expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate, change or alter the
position of any telecommunications facilities within the public ways whenever
the corporate authorities shall have determined that such removal, relocation,
change or alteration is reasonably necessary for:
      1.   The construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any Village
or other public improvement in or upon the public ways.
      2.   The operations of the Village or other governmental entity in or
upon the public ways.
   J.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the Village, any grantee, telecommunications carrier or
other person that owns, controls or maintains any unauthorized
telecommunications system, facility or related appurtenances within the public
ways of the Village shall, at its own expense, remove such facilities or
appurtenances from the public ways of the Village. A telecommunications system
or facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in the following
circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the grantee's telecommunications
license or franchise.
      2.   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public ways of the
Village.
      3.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
prior grant of a telecommunications license or franchise.
      4.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
prior issuance of a required construction permit.
      5.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed at a location
not permitted by the grantee's telecommunications license or franchise.
   K.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The Village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any telecommunications facilities located
within the public ways of the Village, as the Village may determine to be
necessary, appropriate or useful in response to any public health or safety
emergency.
   L.   Damage To Grantee's Facilities: Unless directly and proximately caused
by the wilful, intentional or malicious acts by the Village, the Village shall
not be liable for any damage to or loss of any telecommunications facility
within the public ways of the Village as a result of or in connection with any
public works, public improvements, construction, excavation, grading, filling
or work of any kind in the public ways by or on behalf of the Village.
   M.   Restoration Of Public Ways, Other Ways And Village Property:
      1.   When a license or franchise grantee, or any person acting on its
behalf, does any work in or affecting any public ways, other ways or Village
property, it shall, at its own expense, promptly remove any obstructions
therefrom and restore such ways or property to as good a condition as existed
before the work was undertaken, unless otherwise directed by the Village.
      2.   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete
restoration required by this Section, the grantee shall temporarily restore the
affected ways or property. Such temporary restoration shall be at the
licensee's sole expense and the licensee shall promptly undertake and complete
the required permanent restoration when the weather or other conditions no
longer prevent such permanent restoration.
      3.   A grantee or other person acting in its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flagmen, lights, flares and other measures as required for
the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent injury or damage
to any person, vehicle or property by reason of such work in or affecting such
ways or property.
      4.   All open excavations necessary for the installation of underground
facilities shall be properly backfilled. Under hard surface areas, such as
roadways, sidewalks and drives, trench backfill shall be compacted and
certified to Village construction code standards. Under unpaved right of way
and other natural surfaced areas, backfill material shall be compacted in six
inch (6") lifts with the final six inch (6") lift being suitable topsoil.
   N.   Facilities Maps: Each license or franchise grantee shall provide the
Village with an accurate map or maps certifying the location of all
telecommunications facilities within the public ways. Each grantee shall
provide updated maps annually.
   O.   Duty To Provide Information: Within ten (10) days of a written request
from the Village Manager, each license or franchise grantee shall furnish the
Village with information sufficient to demonstrate:
      1.   That grantee has complied with all requirements of this Chapter.
      2.   That all Municipal sales, message and/or telecommunications taxes
due the Village in connection with the telecommunications services and
facilities provided by the grantee have been properly collected and paid by the
grantee 1 .
      3.   All books, records, maps and other documents, maintained by the
grantee with respect to its facilities within the public ways shall be made
available for inspection by the Village at reasonable times and intervals.
   P.   Leased Capacity: A license or franchise grantee shall have the right,
without prior Village approval, to offer or provide capacity or bandwidth to
its customers; provided:
      1.   Grantee shall furnish the Village with a copy of any such lease or
agreement.
      2.   The customer or lessee has complied, to the extent applicable, with
the requirements of this Chapter.
   Q.   Grantee Insurance: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, each grantee shall, as a condition of the grant, secure and maintain
the following liability insurance policies insuring both the grantee and the
Village and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees
as coinsureds:
      1.   Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and,
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
limit of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each person and three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each accident.
      3.   Worker's compensation within statutory limits and employer's
liability insurance with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00).
      4.   Comprehensive form premises-operations, explosions and collapse
hazard, underground hazard and products completed hazard with limits of not
less than three million dollars ($3,000,000.00).
      5.   The liability insurance policies required by this subsection shall
be maintained by the grantee throughout the term of the telecommunications
license or franchise and such other period of time during which the grantee is
operating without a franchise or license hereunder or is engaged in the removal
of its telecommunications facilities. Each such insurance policy shall contain
the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until ninety (90) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail, of a written notice addressed to the Village
Manager of such intent to cancel or not to renew.
      6.   Within sixty (60) days after receipt by the Village of said notice,
and in no event later than thirty (30) days prior to said cancellation, the
grantee shall obtain and furnish to the Village replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this subsection.
   R.   General Indemnification: Each license or franchise agreement shall
include, to the extent permitted by law, grantee's express undertaking to
defend, indemnify and hold the Village and its officers, employees, agents and
representatives harmless from and against any and all damages, losses and
expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of suit or defense,
arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or result from the
negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct
of the grantee or its affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or
subcontractors in the construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal
of its telecommunications facilities, and in providing or offering
telecommunications services over the facilities or network, whether such acts
or omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited by this Chapter or by a
grant agreement made or entered into pursuant to this Chapter.
   S.   Performance And Construction Surety: Before a license or franchise
granted pursuant to this Chapter is effective, and as necessary thereafter, the
grantee shall provide and deposit such monies, bonds, letters of credit or
other instruments in form and substance acceptable to the Village as may be
required by this Chapter or by an applicable license or franchise agreement.
   T.   Security Fund: Each grantee shall establish a permanent security fund
with the Village by depositing the amount of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) with the Village in cash, an unconditional letter of credit or
other instrument acceptable to the Village, which fund shall be maintained at
the sole expense of grantee so long as any of grantee's telecommunications
facilities are located within the public ways of the Village.
      1.   The fund shall serve as security for the full and complete
performance of this Chapter, including any costs, expenses, damages or loss the
Village pays or incurs because of any failure attributable to the grantee to
comply with the codes, ordinances, rules, regulations or permits of the
Village.
      2.   Before any sums are withdrawn from the security fund, the Village
shall give written notice to the grantee:
         a.   Describing the act, default or failure to be remedied, or the
damages, cost or expenses which the Village has incurred by reason of grantee's
act or default.
         b.   Providing a reasonable opportunity for grantee to first remedy
the existing or ongoing default or failure, if applicable.
         c.   Providing a reasonable opportunity for grantee to pay any monies
due the Village before the Village withdraws the amount thereof from the
security fund, if applicable.
         d.   That the grantee will be given an opportunity to review the act,
default or failure described in the notice with the Village Manager or his
designee.
      3.   Grantees shall replenish the security fund within fourteen (14) days
after written notice from the Village that there is a deficiency in the amount
of the fund.
   U.   Construction And Completion Bond: Unless otherwise provided in a
license or franchise agreement, a performance bond written by a corporate
surety acceptable to the Village equal to at least one hundred percent (100%)
of the estimated cost of constructing grantee's telecommunications facilities
within the public ways of the Village shall be deposited before construction is
commenced.
      1.   The construction bond shall remain in force until sixty (60) days
after substantial completion of the work, as determined by an engineer employed
by the Village, including restoration of public ways and other property
affected by the construction.
      2.   The construction bond shall guarantee, to the satisfaction of the
Village:
         a.   Timely completion of construction.
         b.   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits,
technical codes and standards.
         c.   Proper location of the facilities as specified by the Village.
         d.   Restoration of the public ways and other property affected by the
construction.
         e.   The submission of as-built drawings after completion of the work
as required by this Chapter.
         f.   Timely payment and satisfaction of all claims, demands or liens
for labor, material or services provided in connection with the work.
   V.   Coordination Of Construction Activities: All grantees are required to
cooperate with the Village and with each other.
      1.   By February 1 of each year, grantees shall provide the Village with
a schedule of their proposed construction activities in, around or that may
affect the public ways.
      2.   Each grantee shall meet with the Village, other grantees and users
of the public ways annually or as determined by the Village to schedule and
coordinate construction in the public ways.
      3.   All construction locations, activities and schedules shall be
coordinated, as ordered by an engineer employed by the Village, to minimize
public inconvenience, disruption or damages.
   W.   Transfer And Assignment:
      1.   Except in the event of the merger, consolidation or reorganization
of a licensee or franchisee, the licensee or franchisee shall not have the
right to assign its rights and privileges under this Chapter or to otherwise
transfer them in any manner whatsoever, without the prior written approval of
the Village, pursuant to an ordinance enacted by the corporate authorities.
      2.   In the event of a transfer or assignment of the rights and
privileges of the licensee or franchisee under this Chapter, all provisions of
this Chapter which are obligatory upon, or which inure to the benefit of a
licensee or franchisee shall also be obligatory upon and shall inure to the
benefit of any and all successors and assigns of the licensee or franchisee.
   X.   Transactions Affecting Control Of Grant: Any transactions which
singularly or collectively result in a change of ten percent (10%) or more of
the ownership or working control of the grantee, of the ownership or working
control of a telecommunications license or franchise, of the ownership or
working control of affiliated entities having ownership or working control of
the grantee or of a telecommunications system, or of control of the capacity or
bandwidth of grantee's telecommunication system, facilities or substantial
parts thereof, shall be considered an assignment or transfer requiring Village
approval pursuant to subsection W hereof. Transactions between affiliated
entities are not exempt from Village approval.
   Y.   Revocation Or Termination Of Grant: A license or franchise granted by
the Village to use or occupy public ways of the Village may be revoked for the
following reasons:
      1.   Construction or operation in the Village or in the public ways of
the Village without a license or franchise grant of authorization.
      2.   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location.
      3.   Unauthorized substantial transfer of control of the grantee.
      4.   Unauthorized assignment of a license or franchise.
      5.   Unauthorized sale, assignment or transfer of grantee's franchise or
license assets, or a substantial interest therein.
      6.   Misrepresentation or lack of candor by or on behalf of a grantee in
any application to the Village.
      7.   Abandonment of telecommunications facilities in the public ways.
      8.   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this
Chapter.
      9.   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due
the Village.
      10.   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee.
      11.   Violation of material provisions of this Chapter.
      12.   Violation of the material terms of a license or franchise
agreement.
   Z.   Notice And Duty To Cure: In the event that the Village Manager believes
that grounds exist for revocation of a license or franchise, he shall give the
grantee written notice of the apparent violation or noncompliance, providing a
short and concise statement of the nature and general facts of the violation or
noncompliance, and providing the grantee a reasonable period of time not
exceeding thirty (30) days to furnish evidence:
      1.   That corrective action has been, or is being actively and
expeditiously pursued, to remedy the violation or noncompliance.
      2.   That rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance.
      3.   That it would be in the public interest to impose some penalty or
sanction less than revocation.
   AA.   Hearing: In the event that a grantee fails to provide evidence
reasonably satisfactory to the Village Manager as provided in subsection BB
hereof, the Manager shall refer the apparent violation or noncompliance to the
corporate authorities. The corporate authorities shall provide the grantee with
notice and a reasonable opportunity to be heard concerning the matter.
   BB.   Standards For Revocation Or Lesser Sanctions: If persuaded that the
grantee has violated or failed to comply with material provisions of this
Chapter, or of a franchise or license agreement, the corporate authorities
shall determine whether to revoke the license or franchise, or to establish
some lesser sanction and cure, considering the nature, circumstances, extent
and gravity of the violation as reflected by one or more of the following
factors:
      1.   Whether the misconduct was egregious.
      2.   Whether substantial harm resulted.
      3.   Whether the violation was intentional.
      4.   Whether there is a history of prior violations of the same or other
requirements.
      5.   Whether there is a history of overall compliance.
      6.   Whether the violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or cured.
(1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 3, Chapter 2 of this Code.
8-8-10: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
No person shall commence or continue with the construction, installation or
operation of telecommunications facilities within the Village except as
provided in this Section.
   A.   Construction Codes: Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed,
installed, operated and maintained in accordance with all applicable Federal,
State and local codes, rules and regulations including the National Electrical
Safety Code 1 .
   B.   Construction Permits Required: No person shall construct or install any
telecommunications facilities within the Village without first obtaining a
construction permit therefor; provided, however:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities within the Village unless the telecommunications
carrier has filed a registration statement with the Village pursuant to Section
8-8-5 of this Chapter.
      2.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities in the public ways unless the telecommunications
carrier has applied for and received a license or franchise pursuant to Section
8-8-6 or
8-8-7 of this Chapter or Title 11, Chapter 1 of this Code.
      3.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities without payment of the construction permit fee
established in subsection
8-8-8B of this Chapter.
   C.   Applications For Permits: Applications for permits to construct
telecommunications facilities shall be submitted upon forms to be provided by
the Village and shall be accompanied by drawings, plans and specifications in
sufficient detail to demonstrate:
      1.   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with all
applicable codes, rules and regulations.
      2.   The location and route of all facilities to be installed on existing
utility poles.
      3.   The location and route of all facilities to be located under the
surface of the ground, including the line and grade proposed for the burial at
all points along the route which are within the public ways.
      4.   The location of all existing underground utilities, conduits, ducts,
pipes, mains and installations which are within the public ways along the
underground route proposed by the applicant.
      5.   The location of all other facilities to be constructed within the
Village, but not within the public ways.
      6.   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures and facilities within or adjacent to the public ways.
      7.   The location, dimension and types of all trees within or adjacent to
the public ways along the route proposed by the applicant, together with a
landscape plan for protecting, trimming, removing, replacing and restoring any
trees or areas to be disturbed during construction.
   D.   Engineer's Certification: All permit applications shall be accompanied
by the certification of a registered professional engineer that the drawings,
plans and specifications submitted with the application comply with applicable
technical codes, rules and regulations.
   E.   Traffic-Control Plan: All permit applications which involve work on,
in, under, across or along any public ways shall be accompanied by a traffic-
control plan demonstrating the protective measures and devices that will be
employed, consistent with the Uniform Manual of Traffic Control Devices, to
prevent injury or damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to
efficient pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   F.   Issuance Of Permit: Within forty five (45) days after submission of all
plans and documents required of the applicant and payment of the permit fees
required by this Chapter, an engineer employed by the Village, if satisfied
that the applications, plans and document comply with all requirements of this
Chapter, shall issue a permit authorizing construction of the facilities,
subject to such further conditions, restrictions or regulations affecting the
time, place and manner of performing the work as he may deem necessary or
appropriate.
   G.   Construction Schedule: The permittee shall submit a written
construction schedule to an engineer employed by the Village ten (10) working
days before commencing any work in or about the public ways. The permittee
shall further notify an engineer employed by the Village not less than two (2)
working days in advance of any excavation or work in the public ways.
   H.   Compliance With Permit: All construction practices and activities shall
be in accordance with the permit and approved final plans and specifications
for the facilities. The Village Engineer and his representatives shall be
provided access to the work and such further information as he or she may
require to ensure compliance with such requirements.
   I.   Display Of Permit: The permittee shall maintain a copy of the
construction permit and approved plans at the construction site, which shall be
displayed and made available for inspection by an engineer employed by the
Village or his representatives at all times when construction work is
occurring.
   J.   Survey Of Underground Facilities: If the construction permit specifies
the location of facilities by depth, line, grade, proximity to other facilities
or other standard, the permittee shall cause the location of such facilities to
be verified by a registered Illinois land surveyor. The permittee shall
relocate any facilities which are not located in compliance with permit
requirements.
   K.   Noncomplying Work: Upon order of an engineer employed by the Village,
all work which does not comply with the permit, the approved plans and
specifications for the work or the requirements of this Chapter shall be
removed.
   L.   Completion Of Construction: The permittee shall promptly complete all
construction activities so as to minimize disruption of the village ways and
other public and private property. All construction work authorized by a permit
within Village ways, including restoration, must be completed within one
hundred twenty (120) days of the date of issuance.
   M.   As-Built Drawings: Within sixty (60) days after completion of
construction, the permittee shall furnish the Village with two (2) complete
sets of plans, drawn to scale and certified to the Village as accurately
depicting the location of all telecommunications facilities constructed
pursuant to the permit.
   N.   Restoration Of Improvements: Upon completion of any construction work,
the permittee shall promptly repair any and all public and private property
improvements, fixtures, structures and facilities in the public ways or
otherwise damaged during the course of construction, restoring the same as
nearly as practicable to its condition before the start of construction.
   O.   Landscape Restoration:
      1.   All trees, landscaping and grounds removed, damaged or disturbed as
a result of the construction, installation maintenance, repair or replacement
of telecommunications facilities, whether such work is done pursuant to a
franchise license or permit shall be replaced or restored as nearly as may be
practicable, to the condition existing prior to performance of work.
      2.   All restoration work within the public ways shall be done in
accordance with landscape plans approved by an engineer employed by the
Village.
   P.   Construction Surety: Prior to issuance of a construction permit, the
permittee shall provide a performance bond, as provided in subsection
8-8-9S of this Chapter.
   Q.   Exceptions: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, all telecommunications carriers are subject to the requirements of
this Section.
   R.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner of the facilities to be constructed
and, if different, the license or franchise grantee, are responsible for
performance of and compliance with all provisions of this Section. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 3 of this Code.
8-8-11: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Penalties: Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense
shall be deemed committed each day on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Other Remedies: Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as limiting
any judicial remedies that the Village may have, at law or in equity, for
enforcement of this Chapter. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 9
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
(Rep. by Ord. 07-2466, 11-19-2007)
CHAPTER 10
WATER AND SEWER CHARGES REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Definitions
8-10-2: Initiating Service
8-10-3: Application For Service; Fee; Deposit Required
8-10-4: Water Meters; Rates And Charges
8-10-5: Stormwater Utility Fee
8-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter and in chapters 5 and 6 of this title shall be as follows:
CAPITAL MAINTENANCE FEE: A fee charged to each person who maintains a water
account in order to generate additional revenue to pay for future capital
improvement projects to expand, maintain, repair, replace or upgrade the
Village's waterworks system.
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
ORDINANCE: The ordinance which enacted chapters 5 and 6 of this title and this
chapter which was approved by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
PERSON: Any and all persons including any individual, firm, company, municipal,
or private corporation, association, society, institution, enterprise,
governmental agency or other entity.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances, which are necessary during the useful life of the works to
maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were designed and
constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes replacement.
SERVICE BOX: A valve box used with corporation of curb cock.
SEWERAGE SYSTEM: Any or all of the following: a sewerage treatment plant or
plants, collecting, intercepting and outlet sewers, lateral sewers, and drains,
including combined and separate stormwater and sanitary drains, force mains,
conduits, pumping stations, ejector stations and all other appurtenances,
extensions and improvements necessary, useful, or convenient for the
collection, treatment, and disposal in a sanitary manner of sewerage and
industrial waste.
STATE LOAN: The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of waterworks as provided for by the Illinois Antipollution Bond
Act and for making such loans as filed with the Secretary of State of Illinois.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the waterworks and sewerage
systems will be operated.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of water and sewerage works for the cost
of operation, maintenance, and replacement.
VILLAGE: The Village of Western Springs.
WATER AND SEWER OPERATING FUND: The principal accounting designation for all
revenues received in the operation of the waterworks and sewerage systems.
WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per bimonthly levied on all users
of the water and sewerage facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in subsection
8-10-4E of this chapter and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge
and the local capital cost if applicable.
WATERWORKS SYSTEM: A waterworks system in its entirety or any integral part
thereof, including mains, hydrants, meters, valves, standpipes, storage tanks,
pump tanks, intakes, wells, impounding reservoirs, pumps, machinery,
purification plants, softening apparatus, and all other elements useful in
connection with a water supply or water distribution system. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-
21-2003; amd. Ord. 17-2864, 1-23-2017)
8-10-2: INITIATING SERVICE:
Prior to initiating service from the Village, an account must first be
established through the Department of Finance. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
8-10-3: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; FEE; DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Application: Any person owning or occupying any dwelling in the Village
may make application to be provided with water and sewerage service.
Application to have water turned on and authorization to use the sewerage
system shall be made in writing to the Department of Finance and shall contain
an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept all the provisions of this
chapter as conditions governing the use of Village water supply and sewerage
system. The owner of the property and any tenant renting said property shall be
jointly and severally liable for the cost of the use of water and sewer at the
property. (Ord. 03-2249, 7-14-2003)
   B.   Fee: A nonrefundable application fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be
paid to open a new account. Each new property owner shall be required to open a
new account.
   C.   Deposit Required: In addition to the application fee required above,
any person owning or occupying any dwelling in the Village who files an
application for water and sewerage service shall pay a one hundred dollar
($100.00) deposit with the application for said water and sewerage service. The
Village has the authority to terminate water service if the deposit is not
received within ten (10) days of notification of occupancy. Such application
and deposit must be filed with the Department of Finance.
   D.   Deposit Retained Until Service Termination: The money deposited as
aforesaid will be retained by the Village as a guarantee for payment of water
and sewerage service, and if any applicant shall terminate his or her occupancy
of the premises serviced, he or she shall notify the Village. The Village will
cause the water to be turned off, and if all bills rendered to the date of
termination of the use of the services have been paid, then any money remaining
on deposit shall be refunded to the person who deposited same, without
interest. If there are any outstanding charges for water and sewerage services
that remain unpaid at the time such person terminates such services, the
Village may reimburse itself for such sum as due for said service out of the
deposit, and the remainder of the deposit, if any, shall then be refunded to
the depositor, without interest. (Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003)
   E.   Tap On Fees For New Construction, Tear Downs Or Major Renovations And
Additions For Certain 45th Street Properties: The following properties shall be
required to pay a onetime tap-on fee as set forth below to the Village at the
time the person owning or occupying the property applies to the Village to
connect onto the eight inch (8") water main line installed in the north public
right-of-way of 45th Street between Howard Avenue and Clausen Avenue or in the
event that the property owner or occupant files for a permit to redevelop the
property with new construction, such as a replacement of the principal
structure as a result of a tear down development, or in the event a major
renovation or addition is proposed for the principal structure:
 
Property        PIN           Tap-On Fee
302 45th Street 18-05-308-023 $6,855.00
303 45th Street 18-05-314-030 6,855.00
304 45th Street 18-05-308-030 6,855.00
319 45th Street 18-05-314-025 6,855.00
 
After payment of the above onetime tap-on fee of six thousand eight hundred
fifty five dollars ($6,855.00), each additional or subsequent water main tap-on
by the owners of the above listed properties will cost one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) as set forth in subsection 9-1A-5A of this Code. (Ord. 04-2307, 7-
26-2004)
   F.   Tap On Fees For New Construction, Tear Downs Or Major Renovations And
Additions For Certain Garden Avenue Properties: In accordance with this
subsection, the owners of the following properties shall be required to pay the
below reimbursement fee ("reimbursement fee"), pursuant to one of the below
payment options to be selected by each property owner:
 
Property           PIN                Reimbursement Fee
3903 Garden Avenue 18-06-105-002-0000 "Not to exceed" amount equal to $6,849.17
3909 Garden Avenue 18-06-105-004-0000 "Not to exceed" amount equal to $6,849.17
3911 Garden Avenue 18-06-105-005-0000 "Not to exceed" amount equal to $6,849.17
 
The payment options available to the owners of the above properties (or any
successor owner of record, occupant, developer, builder, lessee/licensee or
agent) are as follows:
      1.   The "payment-in-full option" involves payment in full of the final
reimbursement fee, without any accrued interest due within thirty (30) calendar
days of the Village's written notice of the project completion and final
assessed reimbursement fee. The failure of a property owner to make a timely
payment in full shall automatically default the property owner into the
building permit application payment or sale/closing option.
      2.   The "36 month payment plan option" allows the reimbursement fee to
be paid within a thirty six (36) month period, with the payment of accrued
simple interest at three percent (3.0%) per annum. Interest will start to
accrue thirty (30) calendar days after the date of the Village's written notice
of the project completion and final assessed reimbursement fee. The first
monthly payment will be due on the first day of the month following the date of
the Village's written notice of the project completion and final assessed
reimbursement fee, and each subsequent monthly payment is due on the first day
of each subsequent month. The Village will provide to the owner a thirty six
(36) month principal and interest payment schedule. There shall be no pre-
payment penalty, and accrued interest shall be prorated on a 1/365th day basis,
based on the outstanding balance due, through the date of final payment in
full.
      3.   The "building permit application payment or sale/closing option"
requires the payment of the final assessed reimbursement fee at the time that
the property owner (or any successor owner of record, occupant, developer,
builder, lessee/licensee or agent) applies for a building permit to redevelop
with new construction, such as a replacement of the principal structure as a
result of a tear-down development, or a major renovation or addition is
proposed for the principal structure or the construction of a garage or as
otherwise provided in this section or at the closing in the event the property
owner sells the property. The property owner (or any successor owner of record,
occupant, developer, builder, lessee/licensee or agent) shall pay the final
assessed reimbursement fee and shall also pay the water meter fee, the sewer
and water tap-on fees, and the user fees relating to sewer and water
installations and services for those charges generally applicable in the
Village for similar installations or services at the time that the fees or
charges are due. The monthly payments, the interest rate, the simple accrual of
the interest, no pre-payment penalty and the proration of any interest for this
option are the same as in the thirty six (36) month payment plan option above,
except that there shall be no limit on duration on the accrual of interest
other than the date of payment in full of the reimbursement fee and the accrued
interest.
The property owners (or any successor owner of record, occupant, developer,
builder, lessee/licensee or agent) shall pay the final assessed reimbursement
fee, plus interest if applicable, and all of the other required fees, including
the water meter fee, except that no permit fees or water tap on fee shall be
charged as part of the payment of the reimbursement fee for the Rose/Garden/
39th Street Service Line Improvements Project. The reimbursement fee is a "not
to exceed" fee based on the final project costs and shall be charged to each
property owner (if the final project costs are equal to or above the "not to
exceed" reimbursement fee) or reduced to match the actual project costs
incurred, if the actual project costs are less than the reimbursement fee. As
part of the public benefit of this project, the Village agrees to waive the
permit fee and water tap on fee required to be paid by each property owner and
agrees to pay any additional project costs that exceed the reimbursement
amount. If necessary, the Village shall amend this subsection F to reflect the
actual, final project costs and the final reimbursement fee. For any other
additional or future sewer and water service line connections, the sewer and
water tap on fees and the user fees relating to sewer and water installations
and services shall be those charges generally applicable in the Village for
similar installations or services at the time that the fees or charges are due.
The estimated Total Water Main and Service Line Improvements Project costs are
one hundred ninety one thousand two hundred sixty seven dollars fifty cents
($191,267.50), which includes the Village's payment for certain improvements to
a water main crossing at Flagg Creek (estimated to be $129,952.50), the
installation of water service line tap-on connections and water service lines
extending from the water mains in the front yard public rights-of-way to the
buffalo boxes for all of the project properties (estimated to be $39,195.00),
and the abandonment in place of the rear yard water mains (estimated to be
$22,120.00). After the project is completed, if necessary, this subsection F
will be amended to state the final reimbursement fee.
After full payment of the reimbursement fee, the Village will file a release of
lien and confirmation of payment in full against title to each subject property
with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds Office. The Municipal water system lien
authority of the Village is contained in section 11-126-4 of the Illinois
Municipal Code1.
Each additional or subsequent water main tap on by the owners of the above
listed properties will cost one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) as set forth in
subsection 9-1A-5A of this Code. (Ord. 18-2928, 7-23-2018)
8-10-4: WATER METERS; RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Meters Required: Each individual occupancy connected to the public
water supply must be equipped with a water meter and exterior touch pads as
prescribed by the Village, at the owner's expense.
   B.   Location Of Meters: Meters shall be installed in a location that will
be easily accessible by the Village or its agent for purposes of reading said
meters.
   C.   Reading Meters:
      1.   The Department of Finance shall read or cause to be read every water
meter connected with the Village water system at such times as are necessary so
that the bills may be sent out at the proper time.
      2.   All persons shall grant access to the Village meter within two (2)
weeks of notification. Failure to grant access is a violation of this Code and
may result in penalties as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Failure to grant access may also result in termination of
water service as determined by the Department of Public Works or Department of
Finance.
   D.   Basis For Water And Sewerage System Charges: The water and sewerage
system service charges for the consumption of water and the use of the
wastewater facilities supplied by the Village of Western Springs shall consist
of a basic user charge, a debt service charge, a capital improvement charge and
applicable surcharges.
   E.   Computation Of Water And Sewerage System Service Charge: The water and
sewerage service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
C = DSP + OMR + CC / WS
C = Amount of water/sewer charge ($) per thousand gallons
DSP = Debt service payment
OMR = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement
WS = Water sold (thousand gallons)
   F.   Rates Established: Effective for the water billing cycle commencing on
January 1, 2022, all property upon which any building has been or may be
hereafter erected having a connection with the Village water and sewerage
system shall pay bimonthly charges (6 times per year) at the applicable rate
for users of the Village water and sewerage system based on the amount of water
consumed, as shown by the water meter(s):
 
Residents:                                             
 Per 1,000 gallons                                   $14.00
 Minimum charge without regard to gallons consumed   56.00
Eligible senior discount residents:                    
 Per 1,000 gallons                                   10.00
 Minimum senior discount charge without regard to    40.00
  gallons consumed
Capital maintenance fee (applies to all water account $10.00 per billing cycle
holders)
 
The senior citizen discounted water rate shall be available only to eligible
Village residents who are at least sixty five (65) years of age and who
annually demonstrate that his/her/their income level does not exceed the then-
current maximum income level required to be eligible for the Cook County Senior
Real Property Tax Freeze Program. A Village- issued application form must be
completed and submitted on an annual basis, as directed by the Village, for
review and approval by the Finance Director in order to be eligible for the
senior citizen discounted water rate.
The owner of property receiving water and sewerage service and any tenant
renting said property shall be jointly and severally liable for the cost of the
water and sewerage service provided to the property.
   G.   Notice Of Rates: Each user will be notified by the Village in
conjunction with a regular bill of the rate.
   H.   Bills For Service:
      1.   Obligation To Pay: The owner of the premises or any building
thereon, the occupant thereof and the user of water and sewerage services shall
be jointly and severally liable to pay for the services to such premises or
building and the services are furnished to the premises or building by the
Village of Western Springs only upon the condition that said owner, occupant
and user of the services agree to be jointly and severally liable for payment
thereof to the Village of Western Springs.
      2.   Penalties; Late Fees: All bills for water and sewerage services
shall be sent out bimonthly by the Department of Finance and are due and
payable twenty (20) days after being sent out. If the rates or charges for such
services are not paid within twenty (20) days after the rendition of the bill
for such service, there shall be a penalty imposed of ten percent (10%) of the
amount of the bill. After notice of impending service discontinuation is given
by the Department of Finance, such services shall be discontinued without
further notice and shall not be reinstated until all past due bills, including
penalties thereon and late fees, are paid in full, together with a charge of
twenty dollars ($20.00) for reinstating such services during scheduled working
hours or thirty five dollars ($35.00) for reinstating such services after
normal working hours. The user of water and sewer service and the owner of the
property shall be obligated to pay the following late fees in the event of a
failure to pay any outstanding balance due after the notice of impending
service discontinuation has been provided by the Village to the user or owner:
all certified mailing fees and postage associated with notifying the user or
owner of the outstanding bill and the notice of impending service
discontinuation, a fifteen dollar ($15.00) administrative fee associated with
the time spent by the Village attempting to collect the outstanding balance due
on the account, and any out of pocket charges or fees incurred by the Village
as a consequence of having to retain a third party to assist with the
collection of the outstanding balance due on the account.
      3.   Estimated Readings; Adjustments: If weather or other unfavorable
conditions exist requiring the issuing of the water bill based upon estimated
readings, such bills shall be due and payable as herein provided. Adjustments
caused by estimating said bills shall be made at the time the next regular
bills are prepared, or whenever such conditions have diminished allowing for
the Village to resume its normal billing procedures. The owner, occupant and
user of the water and sewerage service remains liable to pay for the actual
amount of services as determined after adjustment.
   I.   Lien For Unpaid Bills; Delinquencies:
      1.   Whenever a bill for water and sewerage service remains unpaid for
forty (40) days after it has been rendered, such service shall be discontinued
without further notice and shall not be reinstated until all claims are
settled. Whenever a bill for water and sewerage services remains unpaid for
ninety (90) days for bimonthly service after it has been rendered, the Village
Treasurer shall file against title to the property within ninety (90) days
thereafter, with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds, a statement of lien claim.
This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the
amount of the unpaid bill, the amount of late fees defined in subsection H2 of
this section and a notice that the Village claims a lien for this amount as
well as for all charges for water subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      2.   The failure of the Department of Finance to record such lien claim
or to mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall
not affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water and sewerage
service bills as mentioned in the foregoing subsection.
      3.   If the user of water and sewerage services whose bill is unpaid is
not the owner of the premises, and the Department of Finance has knowledge of
this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of record of the premises whenever
such bill remains unpaid for a period of twenty (20) days after it has been
rendered.
      4.   Property subject to a lien for unpaid water and sewer charges shall
be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in
the name of the Village. The Village Attorney is authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings in the name of the Village, in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters, against any property for which the bill for
water has remained unpaid for forty (40) days after it has been rendered.
      5.   Landlords shall be responsible for the payment of bills for water
and sewerage usage not paid by their tenants.
   J.   Disposition Of Revenues:
      1.   Funds To Be Kept Separate: All revenues derived from the operation
of the waterworks and sewerage systems shall be held by the Village Treasurer
separate and apart from his/her private funds and all other funds of the
Village and be deposited in the sewer account of the Water and Sewer Operating
Fund not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such more
frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the President and
Board of Trustees.
      2.   Water And Sewer Operating Fund: The Village Treasurer shall deposit
all revenues mentioned in subsection J1 of this section in a separate fund
designated as the Water and Sewer Operating Fund, and said Village Treasurer
shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by the
provisions of section 5/11-139 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1  as amended.
(Provided by the statute of the "Revised Cities and Villages Act", effective
1942.)
   K.   Accounts Kept: The Department of Finance shall establish a proper
system of accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
waterworks and sewerage systems.
   L.   Review; Audit Report: The adequacy of the water and sewer service
charges shall be reviewed, not less often than annually, by certified public
accountants for the Village of Western Springs in their annual audit report.
The water and sewerage rates may be revised from time to time by the Village to
reflect a change in capital costs or operations, maintenance and replacement
costs. In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual report
shall also reflect the revenue and operating expenses of the waterworks and
sewer systems, including a replacement cost, to indicate that the water and
sewer charges under the waterworks and sewer systems meet all applicable
Federal and State laws and regulations. The financial information to be shown
in the audit report shall include the following:
      1.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      2.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      3.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for
current fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
   M.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of
this chapter shall be fined as specified in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code for
each offense.
   N.   Access To Records: The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
("IEPA") or its authorized representative shall have access to any books,
documents, papers and records of the Village which are applicable to the
Village relative to its waterworks and sewerage systems for the purpose of
making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure
compliance with the terms of the State loan agreement and rules of any State
loan.
   O.   Appeals: The method for computation of rates and service charges
established for user charges in this chapter shall be made available to a user
within thirty (30) days of receipt of a written requirement for such. Any
disagreement over the method used or in the computations thereof shall be
remedied by the Finance Department within sixty (60) days after notification of
a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Ord. 03-2233, 4-21-2003; amd. Ord. 03-2249, 7-14-2003; Ord. 18-2936, 12-17-
2018; Ord. 21-3059, 10-25-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-139 et seq.
8-10-5: STORMWATER UTILITY FEE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to establish a stormwater
utility fee program for the assessment, collection and expenditure of
stormwater utility fees, rates and charges to make infrastructure improvements
intended to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the Village of Western Springs from damage to property and local waterways from
stormwater runoff and floods from local waterways, through the construction and
operation of flood reduction and control facilities, and through water quality
management and floodplain management. It is also the purpose of this Section to
provide an effective and long-term approach to stormwater management within the
Village by identifying and providing an adequate and stable funding source for
stormwater management.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
Section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CREDIT: A conditional reduction in the amount of a stormwater user fee to an
individual property based on the provisions of the Village of Western Springs
Stormwater Credit Manual.
   DEVELOPED LAND: Property that has been altered from its natural state by the
addition of impervious area.
   DEVELOPMENT CONTROL ORDINANCE (DCO): The set of regulations contained at
Title 10 of the Village’s Municipal Code.
   EQUIVALENT RUNOFF UNIT (ERU): A unit of measure of impervious surface (in
square feet, which can be whole or fractional) that represents the impervious
surface area on a Parcel. The ERU shall be used as the basis for determining
the stormwater user fee for a Parcel. Three thousand seven hundred eight
(3,708) square feet of impervious area shall equal one ERU.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA or IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Those areas that prevent or
significantly impede the infiltration of stormwater into the soil as defined in
Section
10-2-2 (Definitions) of the Development Control Ordinance. Common impervious
areas include, but are not limited to, residential/non-residential/ mixed use
structures (including rooftops and awnings) and any other impervious surfaces,
including, but not limited to, accessory structures, detached garages,
driveways, aggregate or stone surfaces, outdoor residential recreational
facilities (including all swimming pools or similar structures), private
sidewalks, terraces, and patios.
   MIXED-USE PARCEL: Developed land that has been improved with one or more
buildings, containing a mix of allowable zoning uses including but not limited
to commercial, retail / service, residential, industrial, manufacturing and/or
office uses, located on it.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PARCEL: Developed land that has one or more
residential buildings, containing multiple dwelling units, located on it.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL PARCEL: Developed land that is not a Single-Family
Residential Parcel or Multi-Family Residential Parcel.
   NPDES or NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM: The national
permitting program implemented under the Clean Water Act.
   OPEN SPACE: Pervious land to be retained as pervious land which is not part
of a larger development. Open space may also include sidewalk, bike path,
nature or walking trail development less than or equal to fourteen feet in
width, and outdoor accessory features less than or equal to 0.10 acre in area,
including, but not limited to, playgrounds, restrooms, and open-air shelters.
To be considered open space, the accessory features must be surrounded by a
majority of pervious land and be located on property holdings that are less
than 30% impervious. Bodies of water are excluded from the calculation of the
percentage of imperviousness. See, MWRD WMO Appendix A - Definitions, Page A-
11.
   PARCEL: An area of land within the corporate limits of the Village that has
been established by a plat, a tax division filing, or other legal means and has
been assigned a one or more Property Index Numbers (PIN) by Cook County,
Illinois.
   PROPERTY OWNER AREA: The impervious area that each individual property owner
in a Multi-Family Residential Parcel is responsible for. This area is used to
place individual property owners into the tiered rate structure.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PARCEL (SFR): Developed land containing one
dwelling structure which is not attached to another dwelling structure and
which contains one or more bedrooms, one or more bathrooms, and kitchen
facilities, designed for occupancy by one family. SFR Parcel units may include
houses, manufactured homes and mobile homes located on one or more individual
lots or parcels of land.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM: A conveyance or system of conveyances that include
sewers, storm drains, curbs, gutters, ditches, retention ponds or basins, dams,
stream impoundments, manmade channels or storm drains, pumping stations, and
flood control facilities and appurtenances thereof which is designed or used
for the collection, control, transportation, treatment or discharge of
stormwater.
   STORMWATER UTILITY FEE: The fee(s) charged by the Village of Western Springs
as part of its Stormwater Utility Fee Program established by this Section for
the management, billing, operation, maintenance, engineering, planning, and
capital investments related to the stormwater system.
   STORMWATER UTILITY or STORMWATER UTILITY FEE PROGRAM: The Village of Western
Spring’s stormwater utility fee program established by this section for the
management, billing, operation, maintenance, engineering, planning, and capital
investments related to the stormwater system.
   UNDEVELOPED LAND (or UNDEVELOPED PARCEL): A property that remains in its
natural state with no impervious area.
   USER: The owner of a Parcel that uses, benefits from, or connects to the
Village’s stormwater system.
To the extent any of the defined terms in the Definitions are listed in this
Section either with initial capitals or small case text, they shall have the
same defined meaning.
   C.   Establishment of a Stormwater Utility and Stormwater Utility Fee:
      1.   The Village establishes a stormwater utility to provide for the
management, billing. regulation, construction, maintenance, and improvement of
the handling of stormwater runoff in the Village, and for such purposes may
include all or part of the necessary engineering, planning, operations,
maintenance, repair, administration and enforcement, capital programs, and
education efforts related thereto.
      2.   Effective May 1, 2023, with the passage of Ordinance 23-______, the
Village established a Stormwater Utility Fee Program and Stormwater Fund
fulfill the purposes of this Section. The Village shall maintain an impervious
area database for all Parcels within the Village which will serve as the basis
for determination of the number of ERUs associated with each Parcel. The
database will be based on available information, including building permit
applications, geographic information systems analysis, aerial photographs,
mapping information, site examination and other available information, and will
be periodically updated based on available information. All rates, fees and
charges collected pursuant to this Section shall be used only for the purposes
of the stormwater utility as deemed appropriate by the Village and all funds
shall be deposited into the Village’s established Stormwater Fund. The
management and supervision of the stormwater utility shall be under the
direction of the Director of Engineering Services/Village Engineer.
      3.   The Stormwater Utility Fee Program applies to all Parcels that are
located within the Village’s corporate boundaries and shall apply to all real
property that is annexed into the Village’s corporate boundaries. Because the
existing Stormwater System within the Timber Trails Subdivision was privately
owned at the time of the adoption of the Stormwater Utility Fee Program, the
owners of Parcels located within the Timber Trails Subdivision will be charged
a Stormwater Utility Fee once the portion of the Subdivision’s Stormwater
System that is required to be transferred to the Village by the Developer
pursuant to the Timber Trails Subdivision Annexation Agreement is conveyed to
and accepted by the Village.
   D.   Rates, Fees and Charges for Stormwater Utility Service:
A user, except otherwise exempted in this section, shall be charged for such
service in accordance with rates, fees and charges established from time-to-
time by an ordinance adopted by the Village Board as set forth below:
Single-Family Residential Parcels Stormwater Utility Fee
                                  (Rates, Fees and Charges)
                                                                                  Stormwater
                                                                                  Utility
Single-Family Residential Parcels                                                 Fee
                                                                                  (Rates,
                                                                                  Fees and
                                                                                  Charges)
   Tier 1: Parcels with less than 3,000 square feet of impervious area shall be$12.25
billed for 0.75 ERU.
   Tier 2: Parcels with 3,000 square feet or more, and up to 4,600 square feet $17.50
impervious surface area shall be billed for 1 ERU.
   Tier 3: Parcels with greater than 4,600 square feet of impervious surface ar$24.50
will be billed for 1.4 ERU.
Multi-Family Residential Parcels                                                   
                                                                                  Property
                                                                                  owners are
                                                                                  placed
                                                                                  into Tier
                                                                                  1, Tier 2
   Total property impervious area (sq. ft.) / number of property owners =      or Tier 3,
“Property Owner Area”                                                         outlined
                                                                                  above,
                                                                                  based on
                                                                                  the
                                                                                  Property
                                                                                  Owner
                                                                                  Area.
Non-Residential Parcels                                                            
                                                                                  Total
                                                                                  Impervious
                                                                                  Area /
                                                                                  3,708
                                                                                  square
   Parcels are billed based on the measured impervious area (sq. ft.), rounded feet = X
to the next whole ERU                                                             ERUs
                                                                                  X ERUs
                                                                                  multiplied
                                                                                  by $17.50
                                                                                  = Monthly
                                                                                  Fee
Mixed-Use Parcels                                                                  
                                                                                  Total
                                                                                  Impervious
                                                                                  Area /
                                                                                  3,708
                                                                                  square
   Parcels are billed based on the measured impervious area (sq. ft.), rounded feet = X
to the next whole ERU.                                                            ERUs
                                                                                  X ERUs
                                                                                  multiplied
                                                                                  by $17.50
                                                                                  = Monthly
                                                                                  Fee
 
   E.   Basis for Stormwater Utility Fee:
      1.   The stormwater utility fee shall be based on the extent to which
each Parcel creates a need for stormwater management; the amount of impervious
area on each Parcel; and the cost of debt service and operating, maintaining,
and improving the stormwater system.
      2.   The adequacy of the stormwater utility fee shall be reviewed
annually by the Village. The stormwater utility fee shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in debt service or a change in operation,
maintenance and improvement costs.
   F.   Stormwater Utility Fee Structure:
      1.   Fee Imposed. A stormwater utility fee is imposed on users in
accordance with the terms of this Section. The stormwater utility fee,
including all related rates, fees and charges, for all Parcels within the
Village and shall be based on the measured number of ERUs on the user’s Parcel.
A user will not be charged a separate stormwater utility fee for each platted
lots, tax division lot, or PIN, that are part of a Parcel.
      2.   Fee Ordinance. The stormwater utility fee shall be set from time-to-
time by an ordinance as provided in subsection 8-10-5(D) (Rates, Fees and
Charges for Stormwater Utility Service) above.
      3.   Single-Family Residential and Multi-Family Residential Parcels shall
be billed based on the following impervious area tiers:
         a.   Tier 1: Parcels with less than 3,000 square feet of impervious
area shall be billed for 0.75 ERU.
         b.   Tier 2: Parcels with 3,000 square feet or more, and up to 4,600
square feet of impervious surface area shall be billed for 1 ERU.
         c.   Tier 3: Parcels with greater than 4,600 square feet of impervious
surface area shall be billed for 1.4 ERU.
      4.   All Non-Residential Parcels and Mixed-Use Parcels in the Village
shall be billed based on the measured impervious area on the Parcel, rounded up
to the next whole ERU.
      5.   Fees to qualifying Parcels may be adjusted if stormwater utility fee
credits are approved by the Village for onsite stormwater management. See
Subsection 8-10-5(M)(Stormwater Utility Fee Credits).
   G.   Billing for Stormwater Utility Fees:
      1.   Issuance of bill. The Finance Department shall issue all bills for
stormwater utility fees as follows:
         a.   For users of the stormwater system that have an existing utility
account with the Village, the Finance Department may include the stormwater
utility fee on the same statement issued for such other utility service.
         b.   The Finance Department may issue a separate bill to the owner of
any Parcel that does not have an existing utility account with the Village. If
the owner of such Parcel has not provided the Finance Department with a billing
address, then the Finance Department may mail the stormwater utility bill to
the same person who receives property tax bills for that Parcel.
         c.   For condominium buildings, apartment buildings or similarly
divided ownership buildings and Parcels, a separate bill shall be sent to each
Parcel owner and the homeowners association or shall be billed to the property
management company, as appropriate.
      2.   All bills for the stormwater utility fee will be billed on a common
statement, and collected along with the charges including but not limited to
water usage, sewer user usage, the Capital Maintenance Fee, and the refuse fee
except as otherwise provided for in this Section or as otherwise agreed upon
between users and the Village’s Finance Department.
      3.   Responsibility for payment. The owner of any Parcel, building or
premises and the occupant thereof and the customer of the utility service of
said system shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for such stormwater
utility fee for said premises.
      4.   Application of payments. If the stormwater utility fee is included
on a common statement and the user does not pay the total amount due on the
statement, the payment shall be applied first to the stormwater utility fee. If
any amount on a utility bill is past due, the payment will first be applied to
such past due amounts.
      5.   The stormwater utility fee for more than one Parcel may be combined
and billed upon a single utility bill if the respective Parcels are contiguous
to each other and owned by the same user.
      6.   The stormwater utility fee for more than one Parcel may be combined
and billed upon a single utility bill if the respective Parcels are contiguous
to each other and are used for a common or accessory purpose to one another.
      7.   The stormwater utility fee for a Parcel that is used as a common
area and not used for independent use may be separated and billed in a prorated
amount and attributed to each Parcel that the common area serves.
      8.   In the event a Parcel does not have an existing utility billing
account, the Village may create a new utility bill under the current user’s
name and issue a bill for the stormwater utility fee.
   H.   Liens for Unpaid Stormwater Utility Fees: The Village may file a lien
against title to the Parcel with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds Office
(“CCRD”) and foreclose upon a lien for an unpaid bill for the stormwater
utility fee in the same manner as provided for elsewhere in the Village Code,
the Illinois Municipal Code or by another other lawful means available to the
Village.
   I.   Other Remedies: To the extent permitted by law, in addition to filing
and foreclosing on a lien, the Village may seek payment for past due stormwater
utility fees, late fees, interest, penalties, administrative fees, and
recording fees by sending same to a collection agency or by filing a lawsuit in
the State circuit court, and may also recover its actual expenses so incurred,
including but not limited to, court costs, collection agency fees, and
reasonable attorney’s fees.
   J.   Interference With Stormwater System:
      1.   No Interference With System. No person shall alter, interfere with
or disturb the stormwater system or appurtenances thereto without the
permission of the Village Manager, or their designee.
      2.   No Damaging of System. No person shall willfully or negligently
break, injure or deface such stormwater system and appurtenances, or commit any
act which is intended to or which shall obstruct or impair the intended use
thereof.
   K.   Change in Ownership: Irrespective of any change in ownership, the owner
of each Parcel of real estate shall be liable for the payment of any unpaid
stormwater utility fees.
   L.   Exemptions from Stormwater Utility Fee:
      1.   Exempt Parcels. The following Parcels shall be exempt from the
stormwater utility fee:
         a.   Parcels that are:
            (1)   Dedicated public rights-of-way, such as roadways, sidewalks
and alleys; and
            (2)   Railway lines; and
            (3)     Non-Single-Family Residential Parcel with an impervious
area of 400 square feet or less.
         (4)   Public path systems (i.e., sidewalk, bike path, nature or
walking trail) as defined in the term Open Spaces found in Subsection
8-10-5(B) (Stormwater Utility Fee; Definitions) of this section.
   M.   Stormwater Utility Fee Credits: The Director of Engineering Services/
Village Engineer, or their designee, shall recommend to the Village Board, a
Stormwater Utility Fee Credit Manual, for approval. The Stormwater Utility Fee
Credit Manual shall have the purpose of establishing a program of credits that
will reduce the stormwater utility fee that particular property owners will be
required to pay, in order to promote efforts by said property owners to
mitigate the effects of stormwater on the Stormwater System. The Director of
Engineering Services/Village Engineer may, from time to time, make changes to
the Stormwater Utility Fee Credit Manual, with approval by the Village Manager.
   N.   Adjustments to Stormwater Bills:
      1.   Process for Adjustments. A Parcel’s impervious area, which is used
to compute the number of ERUs, may be adjusted by the Director of Engineering
Services/Village Engineer, or their designee, to an amount which more properly
represents the impervious surfaces on a Parcel. This may be done upon
presentation by: (a) the user of factual evidence that in the Director’s sole
discretion, establishes that the impervious area used to determine the Parcel’s
stormwater utility tier or the computed number of ERUs was incorrect; and (b)
Village staff of factual evidence that in the Director’s sole discretion,
establishes that the impervious area used to determine the Parcel’s stormwater
utility tier or the computed number of ERUs is no longer correct based on
Village issued site development or building permits or work that required a
Village site development or building permit. On a periodic basis, the Village
will re-evaluate the computations involved in determining the stormwater
utility fee for all Parcels that are subject to the fee.
      2.   Responsibility for Initiating Adjustment Process. The user is
responsible for initiating any review of the impervious area computation for a
Parcel or any other computations involved in determining the stormwater utility
fee for that Parcel by filing an application for an adjustment of the fee,
hereinafter referred to in this Section as an “application for an adjustment,”
and presenting factual evidence in support of a change in the fee.
      3.   Application for Adjustment. The user must file an application for an
adjustment on forms provided by the Village and file the application which
shall include factual evidence in support of the adjustment with the Director
of Engineering Services/ Village Engineer, or their designee.
      4.   Decision on Application. The Director of Engineering Services/
Village Engineer, or their designee, shall make a decision approving or denying
the application for an adjustment within ninety (90) calendar days of receipt
of a completed application for an adjustment. The Director’s decision shall be
in writing and shall state the reasons for the grant of an adjustment or the
denial. The decision shall be sent to the applicant via First Class United
States Mail at the address as shown on the application for an adjustment or
sent via e-mail to the e-mail address, if provided in the application.
      5.   Effective Date of Adjustment. If an application for an adjustment is
approved by the Director of Engineering Services/Village Engineer, or their
designee, the stormwater fee shall be adjusted accordingly for the specified
Parcel and will apply to the next regularly generated bill.
      6.    Appeal from Denial of Application for an Adjustment.
         a.   General. An applicant for an adjustment may appeal a denial of
said application with the Village Manager by filing a written appeal addressed
to the Village Manager and delivered to the office of the Village Manager
within ten (10) calendar days of the date of mailing of the decision denying
said application.
         b.   Form for appeal. An appeal to the Village Manager shall be made
in writing and must be accompanied by any documentation or other evidence the
applicant wishes the Village Manager to consider in deciding the appeal.
      7.   Time and Form of Decision on Appeal. The Village Manager shall
review and make a decision whether to grant or deny the appeal within thirty
(30) calendar days of receipt of a completed appeal application. The Village
Manager has the discretion to: (i) grant an adjustment, as proposed by the
applicant; (ii) grant an adjustment at a level as determined appropriate by the
Village Manager; or (iii) sustain the decision to deny the adjustment made by
the Director of Engineering Services/Village Engineer, or their designee. Said
decision shall be a final administrative decision, shall be issued in writing,
and shall state the reasons for the grant of an adjustment or the sustaining of
the denial of the appeal. The decision shall be sent to the applicant via First
Class United States Mail at the address as shown on the application for an
adjustment or sent via e-mail to the e-mail address, if provided in the
application.
   O.   Violation; Fines And Penalties: Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this Section 8-10-5 shall be subject to a fine of not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation for each day that the
violation continues, and each day that the violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense subject to a separate penalty. Such a fine shall be in
addition to any other fee or charge authorized pursuant to the terms of this
Code. (Ord. 23-3133, 5-8-2023; amd. Ord. 23-3144, 9-25-2023)
CHAPTER 11
STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES ON RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
8-11-1: Purpose And Intent
8-11-2: Definitions
8-11-3: Annual Registration Required
8-11-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
8-11-5: Action On Permit Applications
8-11-6: Effect Of Permit
8-11-7: Revised Permit Drawings
8-11-8: Insurance
8-11-9: Indemnification
8-11-10: Security
8-11-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
8-11-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
8-11-13: General Construction Standards
8-11-14: Traffic Control
8-11-15: Location Of Facilities
8-11-16: Construction Methods And Materials
8-11-17: Vegetation Control
8-11-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
8-11-19: Cleanup And Restoration
8-11-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
8-11-21: Variances
8-11-22: Penalties
8-11-23: Enforcement
8-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the village's
jurisdiction which will provide public benefit consistent with the preservation
of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village rights of way
and the village as a whole. In enacting this chapter, the village intends to
exercise its authority over the rights of way in the village and, in
particular, the use of the public ways and property by utilities, by
establishing uniform standards to address issues presented by utility
facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased storm water runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the village's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights of way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   B.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of
way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   C.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   D.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility (e.g., cable company, natural gas company, electric company, etc.)
other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or similar
agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar agreement shall
govern and control during the term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or
extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   E.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict. This chapter also supplements the provisions of this
title, "Public Ways And Property", and title 11, "Franchises And Utilities", of
this code, and any other applicable provisions of this code and the more
restrictive provisions of this code shall control.
   F.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   G.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in section
10-2-2 of the development control ordinance or 92 Illinois administrative code
section 530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: As defined in section
10-2-2 of the development control ordinance.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide", as amended.
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The municipal code of the village of Western Springs, Illinois.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTOR OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES: The director of municipal services or his or
her designee, which may include the village engineer.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil; and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, equipment
enclosures, cabinets or boxes, communications and video cables and wires,
antennas, vaults, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables,
and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across,
or within rights of way under this chapter, except those owned or operated by
the village. For purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not
include any facility owned or operated by the village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A roadway, usually parallel, that provides access to land
adjacent to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a
highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
director of municipal services to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the
life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of
the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under a right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
8-11-4 and
8-11-5 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) calendar days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, easement, highway, roadway, or other
area disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility and/or storm water drainage easements in which the
village has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the
location of facilities other than those of the village. "Right of way" shall
not include any real or personal village property that is not specifically
described in the previous sentence and shall not include village buildings,
fixtures, and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are
situated in the right of way. The term right of way or rights of way also shall
not include the inventory of village owned rights of way listed in the village
excess rights of way disposal policy and procedures dated March 26, 2007,
approved under resolution 07-1955, as amended from time to time, as these
parcels of land are not commonly used for utility purposes. It is the village's
intent that these parcels of land be vacated in accordance with the policy and
returned to private ownership so that they are added to the real estate tax
rolls.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
8-11-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
STRUCTURE: As defined in section
10-2-2 of the development control ordinance.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the
federal communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as
now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form. "Telecommunications provider" also shall
include "cable service providers" and "video service providers" as those terms
are used in the cable and video competition law of 2007 1 .
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this section.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The village of Western Springs, Illinois.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 07-2463,
11-19-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.
8-11-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the director of municipal services, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in section
8-11-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 07-
2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any village
right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the right of way (as defined in this chapter), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the director of municipal services and obtaining a
permit from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the
right of way.
      1.   Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Chapter.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the latest edition
of the "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury
or damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to efficient
pedestrian and vehicular traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including a site plan and a landscape plan as well as the certification of an
Illinois registered professional engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
8-11-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in section
8-11-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
8-11-21 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power, cable
television, telecommunications or natural gas distribution system, evidence
that any "certificate of public convenience and necessity" or other regulatory
authorization that the applicant is required by law to obtain, or that the
applicant has elected to obtain, has been issued by the ICC or other
jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District, and any other local or state entities with jurisdiction, have been
satisfied;
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed; or
      6.   In the case of small wireless facilities and associated utility
poles or wireless support structures in the right-of-way, demonstrated
conformance with the Village's adopted general guidelines and small wireless
facility design, aesthetic, stealth and concealment standards, where
applicable, as such standards may be amended from time to time.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility, in writing, to the village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee as required by section
8-8-8 of this title. No application fee is required to be paid by any
telecommunications retailer that is paying the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax pursuant to section
3-2-5 of this code or by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the electricity
infrastructure maintenance fee act. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007; amd. Ord. 20-
3002, 3-16-2020 ; Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022 )
8-11-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the director of
municipal services within a reasonable time after filing. If the application
does not conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws,
rules, and regulations, the director of municipal services shall reject such
application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the director of
municipal services is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the
requirements of this chapter and all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the director of municipal services shall issue a permit
therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the
applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the director of municipal
services, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers And Holders Of State Authorization Under The Cable And Video
Competition Law Of 2007:
      1.   Notification To Village: Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone
company act, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer
shall notify the village that it intends to commence work governed by this
chapter for facilities for the provision of telecommunications services. Such
notice shall consist of plans, specifications, and other documentation
sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall
be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten
(10) days prior to the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not
less than thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of work requiring
excavation. The director of municipal services shall specify the portion of the
right of way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   No Permit Required: In the event that the director of municipal
services fails to provide such specification of location to the
telecommunications retailer within either: a) ten (10) days after service of
notice to the village by the telecommunications retailer in the case of work
not involving excavation for new construction, or b) twenty five (25) days
after service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case of work
involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications retailer may
commence work without obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      3.   Permit Required; Application: Upon the provision of such
specification by the village, where a permit is required for work pursuant to
section
8-11-4 of this chapter, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
      4.   Holders Of State Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition
Law Of 2007: Applications by a utility that is a holder of a state issued
authorization under the cable and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed
granted forty five (45) days after submission to the village, unless otherwise
acted upon by the village, provided the holder has complied with applicable
village codes, ordinances, and regulations. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the village with such village
representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights of way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Business License Required: All contractors and subcontractors
performing work or construction activities authorized by a permit issued by the
village shall be properly licensed and bonded in accordance with the
requirements of this code. Issuance of a permit by the village does not excuse
the contractors and subcontractors of the applicant from obtaining the proper
village licenses to do business in the village.
   E.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and all applicable federal, state, county and local statutes, laws,
ordinances, rules, and regulations. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with section
8-11-21 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee, at its cost, shall either remove the facility from the right of
way or modify the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised
drawings or plans therefor. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying a right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and specifically naming the village, and its elected and appointed officials,
officers, president and trustees, agents, employees, representatives, and
volunteers as additional insureds on the policies listed in subsections A1 and
A2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
Note: If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors
and subcontractors performing the work, then the contractors and subcontractors
shall each comply with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Manager of such intent to cancel or not
to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be written under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
All insurance companies and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and be of a class size "X" or higher as rated by A.M. Best Company or any
similar insurer rating company. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected and
appointed officials, officers, president and trustees, agents, employees,
representatives, and volunteers harmless from and against any and all injuries,
claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable
attorney fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or
alleged to arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the
construction of facilities or occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing
or offering service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are
authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license,
or similar agreement; provided, however, that the utility's indemnity
obligations hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands,
judgments, damages, losses or expenses arising out of or resulting solely and
exclusively from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this chapter by the
village, its officials, officers, employees, agents, representatives or
volunteers. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   The reimbursement of all consultant, engineering and legal fees and
related expenses incurred by the village in the review and processing of the
application or any variance request;
      3.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      4.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Provide a location convenient to the village and within the state of
Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to satisfy the items identified in
subsection A of this section, and shall be determined by the village engineer,
in his discretion, based on estimated project costs as set forth in the
permittee's application. The restoration of the right of way shall be performed
to at least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction
under the permit, as determined by the village director of municipal services,
and may also include reasonable, directly related costs that the village
estimates are likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such
restoration. Where the construction of facilities proposed under the permit
will be performed in phases in multiple locations in the village, with each
phase consisting of construction of facilities in one location or a related
group of locations, and where construction in another phase will not be
undertaken prior to substantial completion of restoration in the previous phase
or phases, the director of municipal services may, in the exercise of sound
discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of security which shall
be applicable to each phase of the construction under the permit. The amount of
the security fund for phased construction shall be equal to the greatest amount
that would have been required under the provisions of this subsection for any
single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit as confirmed by the village, the permittee shall be
entitled to the return of the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains
on deposit, within a reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets
necessary to compensate the village for failure by the permittee to comply with
any provisions of this chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any
revocation of the permit, the security fund, and any and all accrued interest
therein, shall become the property of the village to the extent necessary to
cover any reasonable costs, loss or damage incurred by the village as a result
of said revocation, provided that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or
damage shall be refunded to the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of any right with respect to said security fund shall
affect any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights, which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-
19-2007)
8-11-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   The permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of
way presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or
welfare; or
      4.   The permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the village, providing written proof of such removal to
the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation. The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this subsection C.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of
this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the village or
its designee may, at the option of the village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the village for all costs of removal, storage or disposal of any
equipment or facilities and any contractor fees, consultant fees or legal fees
and related expenses incurred by the village as a consequence of the
permittee's failure or refusal to comply with subsection C of this section.
(Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 07-2463,
11-19-2007)
8-11-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable federal, state, county and local laws, ordinances,
codes, rules and regulations, and commonly recognized and accepted traffic
control and construction principles, sound engineering judgment, including
section
11-1-21 of this code. Where applicable, the principles and standards set forth
in the following IDOT publications, as amended:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the director of municipal services shall determine, based on the
recommendation of the village engineer, which principles apply and such
decision shall be final. If requested, the director of municipal services shall
state which standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance,
or operation of a facility in the future. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices", and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the village (the village
manager or the director of law enforcement services) and the resident, business
or institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
8-11-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the director of municipal services determines that
the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
village's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
      6.   New Utility Facilities (Utility Service Cables, Wires, Ducts And
Lines): All new service facilities, which include utility service cables,
wires, ducts and lines, that serve new customers within the village that
traditionally are installed overhead shall be installed underground, at the
cost of the utility. Utilities may repair and replace existing overhead service
facilities without having to install such facilities underground, unless
underground placement is requested by the village and the parties reach a
mutual agreement regarding the payment of the costs of the underground
installation.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2.0') behind the face of the
curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4.0') outside the outer
shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1.0')
of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than five feet (5.0') from the right of way line, and
any aboveground appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1.0') of the
right of way line or as near as practicable;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   The design and separation parameters specified in subsection B2a
of this section shall be used as guidelines to be followed in all cases unless
special circumstances, as determined by the director of municipal services,
warrant consideration of a variance.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1.00') of the right of way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707,
as amended).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: As part of
its application, the permittee shall be required to submit a site plan showing
the proposed location of the facilities for village approval by the director of
municipal services when the permittee desires to locate any facilities in a
public right of way. The site plan shall be drawn to scale on a sheet not less
than eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11"), which contains
the location of property lines; location of proposed facilities, all buildings,
structures, improvements, fences, and paved areas on immediately adjacent
properties; location of each natural landscaping area; the type of screening
and landscape buffer to be installed around the perimeter of the facilities, a
list by scientific and common name of vegetative species intended to be
planted, cultivated, and maintained as part of the landscape buffer; and the
setback distance of the facilities and landscape buffer that will be located
near any property line. The village may require that facilities be located
within particular rights of way that are not highways, rather than within
particular highways. The placement of facilities in the right of way shall be
approved by the director of municipal services, based on the sound engineering
judgment of the village engineer as well as aesthetic considerations to
preserve the visual quality, appearance, character, health, safety, and welfare
of the community. The permittee may appeal the decision of the director of
municipal services regarding the approved location of the facilities based only
on engineering considerations (e.g., the facility will not operate in
accordance with industry standards at the approved location based on the
opinion of the permittee's engineer), and not on financial or aesthetic
considerations. Such appeal shall be heard by the zoning board of appeals in
accordance with the provisions of section
10-3-13 of the development control ordinance. The landscaping and screening
requirements specified herein are intended to foster aesthetically pleasing
improvements within rights of way which will protect and preserve the visual
quality, appearance, character, health, safety, and welfare of the community.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The director of municipal services may restrict the location and
size of any proposed freestanding facility to be located within a right of way
as part of the approval of the application, the site plan and the landscape
plan. The permittee shall use commercially reasonable efforts to design and
utilize facilities with a minimal visual footprint. Any restriction on the size
of a facility shall be based on the village engineer's sound engineering
judgment and the reasonable commercial availability of a smaller scale,
compatible facility that meets industry standards. An appeal of such decision
shall be heard by the zoning board of appeals in accordance with the provisions
of section
10-3-13 of the development control ordinance.
      2.   Except for telephone poles and related wires, any freestanding
facility located within a right of way shall be screened with earthen berms,
landscape materials or a solid wood or masonry fence or a combination of such
screening in accordance with the provisions of section
10-4-9 of the development control ordinance, as determined appropriate and
necessary by the director of municipal services, to effectively screen the
facility from public view.
   F.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality, appearance,
character, health, safety, and welfare of the community.
      2.   Effective year round landscape screening shall be provided to lessen
the visual prominence of facilities in accordance with the provisions of
section
10-4-9 of the development control ordinance. Innovative landscape design
proposals that promote sustainability, reduce irrigation requirements, and that
utilize effective on site storm water management techniques are encouraged.
Thoughtful selection and placement of plant material based on ecological
principles are also encouraged.
      3.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed or create a
safety hazard to pedestrians, bicycle riders and motorists using the right of
way or adjacent streets, parkways and sidewalks.
      4.   All screening (fences) and landscape materials shall be maintained
in good condition so as to present a healthy, neat and orderly appearance;
shall be replaced when dead or dying or in disrepair; and shall be kept free of
refuse and debris. The permittee shall be responsible for the maintenance,
repair and replacement of all required screening and landscape materials or may
contract with the village to provide such services.
   G.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing (or substantially similar) design and color of utility poles
and light standards shall be used wherever practicable; the installation of
additional utility poles is strongly discouraged.
   H.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
   I.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing Requirements: Ground-mounted
equipment, where necessary, shall be sited in locations approved by the
Director of Municipal Services, in a manner that will most effectively minimize
public impact, optimize safety, and incorporate aesthetic concerns. (Ord. 18-
2929, 7-23-2018)
8-11-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Director
of Municipal Services from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking
shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or
jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly
marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6.00") in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (1.00").
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6.00") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the Village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction" and any open trench areas not backfilled by the end of any
workday shall be enclosed with construction fencing in accordance with the
provisions of section
9-13-9 of this Code.
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the Director of Municipal Services.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location. All work that requires excavation
within the Village of Western Springs ROW shall comply with the requirements of
OSHA standard 29 CFR section 1926, subpart P, "excavations".
         c.   Tree Drip Line: The utility shall not trench within the drip line
of any tree designated by the Village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the director of municipal services, the utility, at its expense,
shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed
facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new
pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by
the director of municipal services.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
8-11-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under or within two feet (2.0') of any paved areas
shall be backfilled and compacted as soon as practicable with granular material
of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by the director of municipal
services.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1.00') of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair,
and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
Type Of Facility  Minimum Cover
Type Of Facility                              Minimum Cover
                                             
Power or communication line (in general;     30 inches
electric lines)
                                             
Communication, cable or video service lines  18 to 24 inches
                                             
Gas or petroleum                             30 inches
products
                                             
                                              Sufficient cover to pro-
Water line                                   vide freeze protection or
                                              66 inches, as determined
                                              by the village engineer
                                             
Sanitary sewer,                               Sufficient cover to pro-
storm sewer, or                              vide freeze protection or 48
drainage line                                 inches, as determined by the
                                              village engineer
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communication lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so that guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be
allowed if there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with
guy guards for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation, or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1.00') in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the director of municipal services. With the
approval of the director of municipal services, shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for
ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the director of municipal
services. No such material shall be stored within the drip line of any trees.
When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or
other materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other property. If
materials are to be stored on right of way during the project, prior written
approval must be obtained from the director of municipal services and at the
end of any workday, such materials shall be enclosed with construction fencing
in accordance with the provisions of section
9-13-9 of this code.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the director of municipal
services when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of construction
are those set forth in section
5-2-3 of this code.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 07-
2463, 11-19-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
8-11-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois and local
laws and regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other
agreement with the village as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way, and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use: No utility shall spray, inject or pour any chemicals on
or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation in the village for any purpose,
including the control of growth, insects or disease, unless the utility
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the director of municipal services that
such spraying is the only practicable method of vegetation control. (Ord. 07-
2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the village has determined
that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary
for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any village
improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon, the rights
of way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the village shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice, the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the director of
municipal services determines that such removal will be in the best interest of
the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) working days after any portion of the rights
of way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance
by the utility, all to the satisfaction of the village as determined by the
director of municipal services. This includes restoration of entrances and side
roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and
methods approved by the director of municipal services. Such cleanup and repair
may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or
any other requirement to restore the right of way to a condition substantially
equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. The
time period provided in this section may be extended by the director of
municipal services for good cause shown. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking of equipment on the shoulder in order to make repair
operations, adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the
shoulder in such an emergency will be permitted only when no other means of
access to the facility is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
director of municipal services or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the utility shall immediately notify the village police.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file, in writing, with the village
a description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the director of
municipal services as a part of the permit application. The request shall
identify each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and
the reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The director of municipal services shall
decide on an individual basis whether a variance is authorized for each
provision of this chapter identified in the variance request.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The director of municipal services
may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the director of municipal services may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
   E.   Appeal Of Decision: An appeal of any decision, determination or order
of the director of municipal services, or his or her designee, including denial
of a variance, under the provisions of this chapter shall be heard by the
zoning board of appeals in accordance with the provisions of section
10-3-13 of the development control ordinance, except that there shall be no
newspaper publication requirement for the hearing (only compliance with the
notice and publication requirements of the open meetings act) and the time
periods for filing and holding a hearing on the appeal shall be as set forth in
this subsection. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to
the village clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such decision,
determination or order. The zoning board of appeals shall commence its
consideration of the appeal at the board's next regularly scheduled meeting
occurring at least seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal or within
fifteen (15) days of the filing date of the appeal. The zoning board of appeals
shall timely decide the appeal and the decision shall be final. (Ord. 07-2463,
11-19-2007)
8-11-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code, as amended. There may be times when the village will incur
delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility will
not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the
utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested
action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the village's costs of damages
and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing
the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency
or commission may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the
village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs
apportioned to it. (Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
8-11-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
CHAPTER 12
PREVAILING WAGE RATES FOR PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS
SECTION:
8-12-1: Prevailing Wage Rates
8-12-2: Landscape Maintenance Work
8-12-1: PREVAILING WAGE RATES:
   A.   To the extent and as required by the prevailing wage act 1 , as
amended, the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers,
mechanics and other workers engaged in the construction of public works coming
under the jurisdiction of this village are ascertained to be the same as the
prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the Cook County area as
determined on an annual basis by the department of labor of the state of
Illinois as of June of each year. The definition of any terms appearing in this
section which are also used in the aforementioned act shall be the same as in
the act. The village shall pass an ordinance each year that ascertains the
prevailing wage rates for that year (the "annual determination").
   B.   To the extent required, the village will adhere to and abide by the
Davis-Bacon act of 1931 for all federally funded or assisted public works
contracts. The general prevailing rate of wages in the village for laborers,
mechanics and other workers engaged in the construction of public works
projects coming under the jurisdiction of the Davis-Bacon act of 1931 are
ascertained to be the same as the prevailing wage rates as determined by the
U.S. department of labor.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply the general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works projects that are subject to the aforesaid acts.
   D.   The clerk, or his/her designee, shall publicly post or keep available
for inspection by any interested party, in the main office of the village, the
annual determination of the prevailing rate of wages. A copy of the annual
determination or of the current revised determination of prevailing rate of
wages in effect shall be attached to or incorporated by reference into all
building and contract specifications for public works contracts prepared by the
village.
   E.   The clerk, or his/her designee, shall mail a copy of the annual
determination to any employer, and to any association of employers and to any
person or association of employees who have filed, or file their names and
addresses, requesting copies of any determination stating the particular rates
and the particular class of workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   F.   Each year, the clerk, or his/her designee, shall promptly file a
certified copy of the ordinance approving the annual determination with both
the secretary of state - index division and the state of Illinois - department
of labor, as required by the prevailing wage act.
   G.   The clerk, or his/her designee, shall cause a notice to be published in
a newspaper of general circulation within the area that the annual
determination of prevailing wages has been made. The notice that the annual
determination has been made shall mention that the ordinance passed according
to this section is available for viewing in the village clerk's office. (Ord.
12-2686, 6-25-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.
8-12-2: LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE WORK:
   A.   Landscape maintenance work is not subject to the prevailing wage rates
of section
8-12-1 of this chapter. "Landscape maintenance work" is generally defined as
work performed in connection with the general maintenance of existing lawns,
vegetation and landscaped areas such as lawn mowing and grass cutting, tree and
shrub pruning, the planting of annuals, the replacement of preexisting shrubs
and trees, grass seeding and fertilizing and herbicide application, laying sod,
and the planting of trees and shrubs. Landscape maintenance work shall not
include landscape construction work.
   B.   "Landscape construction work" is generally defined as any and all work
performed by a landscape contractor, including any of its laborers, foremen,
drivers and operators in connection with contracts for: 1) the original
installation of any landscaping materials as part of any new construction
projects; 2) landscaping done in connection with any road, boulevard, street,
highway, bridge, park, sewer or underground utility construction project; 3)
lawn and landscape restoration where there has been construction involving
trenches and manholes, pipes, cables and conduits; 4) the preparation and
landscaping of approaches associated with construction involving shafts,
tunnels, subways and sewers; 5) the landscaping of the old and new site where
underpinning, lagging, bracing, propping and shoring has occurred; and 6)
landscaping associated with construction involving general excavation and
grading and the general landscaping of sites of demolished structures.
Landscape construction work is covered by the prevailing wage rates of section
8-12-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 12-2686, 6-25-2012)
CHAPTER 13
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-13-1: Purpose
8-13-2: Interaction With Other Code Provisions And Laws
8-13-3: Definitions
8-13-4: Zoning
8-13-5: Permits; Application Process
8-13-6: Construction
8-13-7: Permit Duration
8-13-8: Height Limitations
8-13-9: General Requirements
8-13-10: Stealth, Concealment And Design Standards
8-13-11: Reservation Of Village Utility Pole Space
8-13-12: Applicability Of Existing Agreements
8-13-13: Collocation On Village Owned Infrastructure
8-13-14: Notice Of Sale Or Transfer
8-13-15: Abandonment
8-13-16: Dispute Resolution
8-13-17: Indemnification
8-13-18: Insurance
8-13-19: Maintenance Of Small Wireless Facilities
8-13-20: Revocation Of Permit
8-13-21: Exceptions To Applicability
8-13-1: PURPOSE:
Consistent with the requirements of the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act (Public Act 100-585), and in anticipation of a continued increased demand
for placement of small wireless facilities of the type regulated by the Act
both within the public rights-of-way and in other locations within the
jurisdiction of the Village, the Village Board has found it to be in the best
interests of the public health, safety and general welfare of the Village to
adopt the Code amendments set forth in this chapter in order to establish
generally applicable standards for the design, permitting, location,
construction, deployment, regulation, operation, maintenance, repair and
removal of such small wireless facilities both within the public rights-of-way
and in other locations within the jurisdiction of the Village so as to, among
other things:
   A.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
Village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located both within public
rights-of-way and in other locations within the jurisdiction of the Village;
   B.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which such small
wireless facilities are installed;
   C.   Minimize any adverse visual impact of small wireless facilities and
prevent visual blight in the neighborhoods in which such facilities are
installed;
   D.   Ensure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to small wireless facilities;
   E.   Provide appropriate aesthetic protections to any designated historic
landmarks or districts within the Village; and
   F.   Ensure that the placement of small wireless facilities does not
negatively impact public safety and the Village's public safety technology.
(Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018)
8-13-2: INTERACTION WITH OTHER CODE PROVISIONS AND LAWS:
   A.   Other Code Provisions: The provisions of this chapter are intended to
supplement general requirements and standards relative to the siting of
telecommunication facilities and generally applicable requirements for
construction within public rights-of-way set forth elsewhere within this Code,
including but not limited to the regulations set forth in chapter 11,
“Standards For Construction Of Utility Facilities On Rights-Of-Way”, of this
title and title 10, chapter 4, “Development Standards Of General
Applicability”, of the development control ordinance, as well as reasonable and
nondiscriminatory wiring and cabling requirements, grounding requirements,
utility pole extension requirements, acoustic regulations, and signage
limitations. In the event of a conflict, however, the provisions of this
chapter shall control in all matters involving small wireless facilities, as
defined below.
   B.   State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable Federal or State
laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this chapter, a wireless
provider shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the maximum
extent possible without violating such Federal or State laws or regulations.
(Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018; amd. Ord. 22-3090, 7-11-2022)
8-13-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
ACT: Means the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (Public Act 100-585).
ANTENNA: Means communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless
services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Means Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical
Codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to
those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Means any person who submits an application and is a wireless
provider.
APPLICATION: Means a request submitted by an applicant to the Village for a
permit to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
AUTHORITY: Means the Village or other unit of local government that has
jurisdiction and control for use of public rights-of-way as provided by the
Illinois Highway Code for placements within public rights-of-way or has zoning
or land use control for placements not within public rights-of-way.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: Means to install, mount, maintain, modify, operate,
or replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure
or utility pole, whether existing or new.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Means cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(33), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: Means a cable operator, as defined in 47 USC
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153
(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51),
as amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: Means the Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: Means a one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: Means a building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section
VI.D.1.a.i through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked
building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the
Village pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the
Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Office or where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois
State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: Means a Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation,
order, or local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: Means a small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
PERMIT: Means a written authorization required by the Village or other
permitting authority to perform an action or initiate, continue, or complete a
project.
PERSON: Means an individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization, including an
authority.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: Means the functional division of the Federal government,
the State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Shall have the same meaning as set forth in section 3-105 of
the Public Utilities Act, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-105.
RATE: Means a recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Means the area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. "Right-of-way" does not include authority-owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: Means a wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
STRUCTURAL ENGINEER: Means a person licensed under the laws of the State of
Illinois to practice structural engineering.
UTILITY POLE: Means a pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in
part by a communications service provider or for electric distribution,
lighting, traffic control, or a similar function.
VILLAGE: Means the Village of Western Springs, Cook County, Illinois.
VILLAGE UTILITY POLE: Means a utility pole owned or operated by the Village in
public rights-of-way.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Means equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
"Wireless facility" includes small wireless facilities. "Wireless facility"
does not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which
the equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or
fiber optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles
or coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to
or directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Means any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: Means a wireless infrastructure provider and/or a wireless
services provider. This does not include, and expressly excludes, any person
who is providing service to or for a private niche market.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Means any services provided to the general public, including
a particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory
basis using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or
mobile, provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: Means a person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Means a freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. "Wireless support structure" does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
18-2929, 7-23-2018)
8-13-4: ZONING:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and shall not be subject to zoning review, if collocated in
rights-of-way in any zoning district, or outside rights-of-way in the following
zoning districts:
 
C2  Community Shopping District
O   Limited Office District
ORI Office Research and Limited Industrial District
 
   B.   Prohibited Locations: Small wireless facilities shall be prohibited
uses in the following zoning districts, except as otherwise required by
applicable law:
A   Single-Family Residence District
R1  Single-Family Residence District
R2  Single-Family Residence District
R3  Two-Family Residence District
R4  Multiple-Family Residence District
RB  Residential Buffer District
SFA Single-Family Attached Residence District
R5  Continuing Care Retirement Community Residence District
 
   C.   Other Districts: In all other zoning districts, the Village's normal
zoning approvals, processes and restrictions shall apply, if zoning approval,
processes or restrictions are required by the Village's zoning ordinance. (Ord.
18-2929, 7-23-2018; amd. Ord. 20-3002, 3-16-2020)
8-13-5: PERMITS; APPLICATION PROCESS:
Unless otherwise specifically exempted in this chapter, a permit to collocate a
small wireless facility within the Village is required in all cases. Permits
are subject to the following:
   A.   Permit Applications: Permit applications for the collocation of small
wireless facilities shall be made on a form provided by the Village for such
purpose. In addition to any generally applicable information required of other
communications service providers or for other installations in the public
right-of-way, applicants must, when requesting to collocate small wireless
facilities on a utility pole or wireless support structure, provide the
following information:
      1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Village utility pole,
make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is defined
in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989, that includes
addressing the acceptability of the site for factors such as pole loading from
existing utility equipment and conductors as well as the small wireless
facility, and that specifically includes evaluations pursuant to American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) standards relating to heavy loads and wind;
      2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and digital photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. The photographs shall include a digital
photo simulation of the proposed location providing "before and after" views
demonstrating the true visual impact of the proposed small wireless facilities
on the surrounding environment;
      3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
      4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      5.   To the extent commercially available, technologically compatible
with the local network system, and already used in its national or regional
wireless network system, the wireless provider is required to install small
wireless facilities with antenna and other equipment that have the smallest
visual profile;
      6.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
      7.   Certification that, to the best of the applicant's knowledge, the
collocation complies with the written design standards established by the
Village, and with the various other requirements set forth in this Chapter and
Code;
      8.   Copies of all licenses, permits and approvals required by or from
the Village (for example, zoning approval, where required), other agencies and
units of government with jurisdiction over the design, construction, location
and operation of the small wireless facility. The applicant shall maintain such
licenses, permits and approvals in full force and effect and provide evidence
of renewal or extension thereof when granted;
      9.   In the event the small wireless facility is proposed to be attached
to an existing utility pole or wireless support structure owned by an entity
other than the Village, legally competent evidence of the consent of the owner
of such pole or wireless support structure to the proposed collocation;
      10.    Information on whether a pre-application review was conducted with
Village staff. It is recommended that applicants arrange a review of the
proposed location and design of small wireless facilities and new wireless
support structures with the Director of Municipal Services and other applicable
staff prior to application. Such review does not constitute approval, but is
instead designed to promote administrative efficiency by identifying existing
utility conflicts, allowing consideration of possible alternative locations,
and other issues that might be readily identified and/or resolved by
communication between the applicant and Village staff. In addition, a baseline
test of the radio frequency emissions of a small wireless facility shall be
performed by the wireless provider, at its sole cost and expense, at the time
of initial activation, and the results provided to the Director of Municipal
Services;
      11.   A written affidavit signed by a radio frequency engineer certifying
the small wireless facility's compliance with applicable FCC rules and
regulations relative to radio frequency emissions, as well as technical data
such as the frequencies in use, power output levels and antenna specifications,
reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance with maximum permissible exposure
levels set by the FCC, as well as a monitoring plan for the applicant's
facility capable of tracking and recording the daily amounts or levels of radio
frequency emissions produced by the equipment, in order to verify on an ongoing
basis that the small wireless facility will not exceed applicable FCC radio
frequency emissions;
      12.   Proof of all applicable licenses or other approvals required by the
FCC;
      13.    A written report that analyzes acoustic levels for the small
wireless facility and all associated equipment including, but not limited to,
temporary or permanent backup generators, in order to demonstrate compliance
with applicable Village noise regulations, including, but not limited to,
Chapter 5-2 and any codes adopted thereunder. The acoustic analysis must be
prepared and certified by an engineer and include an analysis of the
manufacturers’ specifications for all noise-emitting equipment and a depiction
of the proposed equipment relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a
written report, the applicant may submit evidence from the equipment
manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the proposed equipment
will not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits;
      14.   Information showing the small wireless facility has received any
required review (for example, environmental assessment and review) by the FCC
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA"), or is exempt from
such requirements. If the applicant claims the small wireless facility is
exempt, it must state the basis for the exemption and provide proof, including
supporting documents that establish that the facility meets such exemption;
      15.   A written description and/or map identifying the geographic service
area for the small wireless facility;
      16.   A sample of the proposed notice to be mailed pursuant to subsection
B, below, and a list of intended recipients (including content and mailing
envelope);
      17.   For work in the public right- of-way, evidence of posting of the
security fund as required in Section 8-11-10 of this Code;
      18.   Where installation is proposed in right-of-way, as defined in this
Chapter, that consists of an "easement for compatible use", a certified copy of
the original easement documents and other supporting documentation
demonstrating that the applicant has the right to install, mount, maintain and
remove a small wireless facility and associated equipment in or on the easement
for the length of the permit. If the applicant is claiming access to the
easement as an assignee or successor in interest, the applicant shall, in
addition, provide documents demonstrating that its assigned or successor rights
in the easement are sufficient to allow it to install, mount, maintain and
remove the small wireless facility and associated equipment for the length of
the permit; and
      19.   Applicants are required to include with any application a master
plan which identifies the location of the proposed small wireless facility in
relation to all existing and potential locations in the Village that are
reasonably anticipated for construction within two (2) years of submittal of
the application.
   B.   Notice: Within three (3) business days of submission of an application
containing all information required by this Chapter and any associated
regulations, an applicant, at its sole cost and expense, shall provide written
notice, by first class United States mail, to the owners and occupants of all
real property at the addresses on file with the United States Postal Office,
and the residential manager for any multi-family dwelling unit that includes
ten (10) or more units at the manager's business mailing address, any part of
which is located within a two hundred and fifty foot (250') radius of the
location of the applicant's proposed small wireless facility. Such notice shall
be in a form provided by the Village, as may be revised from time to time, and
shall be clearly marked as a notification of proposed small wireless facility
installation, identify the applicant and wireless provider(s) who will utilize
the facility, and include a plain language description of the proposed
facility, photo simulations or illustrations depicting theproposed wireless
facility, and the address where comments may be sent to the wireless provider
and Village Manager within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of the
notice. The applicant shall supplement its application with proof of mailing of
required notices no less than two calendar (2) days after mailing of the
notices.
   C.   Means Of Submission; Multiple Applications For Same Location: Permit
applications, along with all supporting information, for the collocation of
small wireless facilities shall be submitted by personal delivery or by other
means approved by the Village. Multiple applications for collocation on the
same utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed based on a
first fully complete application, first-served basis.
   D.   Permit Application Fees: All applications for collocation of small
wireless facilities shall be accompanied by a non- refundable application fee
in the following amounts:
 
Request to collocate a small wireless
facility that includes the installation of $1,000.00
a new utility pole
Request to collocate a single small
wireless facility on an existing utility   $650.00
pole or wireless support structure
Request to collocate multiple small
wireless facilities on existing utility    $350.00 per small wireless facility
poles or wireless support structures
addressed in a single application
 
   E.   Permit Review Timelines:
      1.   Completeness Of Application: Requests for the collocation of small
wireless facilities shall be reviewed for conformance with the requirements of
the Act, this Chapter, and other applicable provisions of this Code. Within
thirty (30) days after receiving an application, the Village must determine
whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an application
is incomplete, the Village must specifically identify the missing information.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the Village sends a notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information. An
application shall be deemed complete if the Village fails to provide
notification to the applicant within thirty (30) days of the date when all
documents, information, and fees specifically enumerated in the Village's
permit application form are submitted by the applicant to the Village.
      2.   Existing Utility Pole Or Wireless Support Structure: Requests for
the collocation of small wireless facilities on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and
either approved or denied within ninety (90) days of submission of a completed
application. A permit application shall be deemed approved if the Village fails
to approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days, subject to the
following: if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application. The permit shall be
deemed approved on the later of the ninetieth day after submission of the
completed application, or the tenth day after receipt of the deemed approved
notice by the Village. Receipt of a deemed approved notice by the Village shall
not preclude the Village from denying the permit within the allowed time limit.
      3.   New Utility Pole: Requests for the collocation of small wireless
facilities that include the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and either approved or denied within one
hundred and twenty (120) days of submission of a completed application. A
permit application shall be deemed approved if the Village fails to approve or
deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days, subject to the
following: if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application. The permit shall be
deemed approved on the later of the one hundred twentieth day after submission
of the completed application, or the tenth day after receipt of the deemed
approved notice by the Village. Receipt of a deemed approved notice by the
Village shall not preclude the Village from denying the permit within the
allowed time limit.
   F.   Tolling: The time limitations for approval or denial of applications
shall be tolled by notice to an applicant that its application is incomplete as
set forth above, upon mutual agreement of the parties, or by a local, State or
Federal disaster declaration or similar emergency that causes a delay.
   G.   Pole Replacement: Permit approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of a utility pole or wireless support structure at the applicant's
sole cost where such replacement is deemed necessary for compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter or Code relative to the siting of small wireless
facilities, or other applicable codes and regulations that concern public
safety.
   H.   Denial: The Village shall deny an application that does not meet the
requirements of this Chapter. The reasons for any denial of a permit shall be
provided in a written notice of denial sent to the applicant, and shall include
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based.
   I.   Resubmittal After Denial: In the case of a permit denial, an applicant
may cure the deficiencies identified in the notice of denial and resubmit a
revised application once within thirty (30) days after the notice of denial is
sent without payment of an additional application fee. The Village shall have
thirty (30) days to approve or deny the resubmitted application or it is deemed
approved, if the applicant has notified the Village of its intention to proceed
with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which notification may
be submitted with the resubmitted application. Review of a resubmitted
application is limited to the deficiencies cited in the original notice of
denial. This subsection does not apply if a revised application is not
resubmitted within thirty (30) days, or curing any deficiencies in the original
application requires review of a new location, new or different structure for
collocation, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility. In such cases, a new application and application fee
are required.
   J.   Consolidated Applications: Consolidated applications for small wireless
facilities for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities shall be allowed if the collocations each involve substantially the
same type of small wireless facility and substantially the same type of
structure. Each consolidated application shall provide all the information
required by this Chapter for each small wireless facility at each location. If
such an application includes incomplete information for one (1) or more small
wireless facility collocations, or includes requests for small wireless
facilities that do not qualify for consolidated treatment, or that are
otherwise denied, the Village may remove such collocation requests from the
application and treat them as separate requests. Separate permits may be issued
for each collocation approved in a consolidated application.
   K.    Alternate Locations: If an applicant is seeking to install a small
wireless facility or new utility pole as part of its application, the Village
may propose that the small wireless facility be located on an existing utility
pole or existing wireless support structure within two hundred feet (200') of
the proposed collocation. Where an existing utility pole is proposed for
collocation, the entity owning the utility pole shall provide access for that
purpose, and the fee charged to the applicant shall be the lowest rate charged
by the entity for other wireless providers and shall not exceed the entity’s
actual costs, as required by Section 11-80-24 of the Act. The applicant shall
accept the proposed alternate location so long as it has the right to use the
location on reasonable terms and conditions, unless the alternate location
imposes technical limits or additional material costs as determined by the
applicant. If the applicant refuses an alternate location based on the
foregoing, the applicant shall provide legally competent evidence in the form
of a written certification, under oath, describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons that prevent the alternate location
from being utilized.
   L.   Exemptions: No application, permit approval or fee shall be required
from a communications service provider authorized to occupy the right-of-way
when the work in question is for:
      1.   Routine maintenance not requiring replacement of wireless facilities
if the wireless provider notifies the Village in writing at least forty eight
(48) hours prior to the planned maintenance;
      2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless provider
notifies the Village in writing at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications, including: (i) equipment
type and model numbers, for the replacement of equipment consistent with the
equipment specifications information required on a permit application for
original installation; and (ii) information sufficient to establish that the
replacement is substantially similar. To the extent commercially available,
technologically compatible with the local network system, and already used in
its national or regional wireless network system, the wireless provider is
required to, when replacing such small wireless facilities, install wireless
facilities with antenna and other equipment that have the smallest visual
profile. The wireless provider shall provide all information necessary and
requested by the Village to establish that the replacement is substantially
similar. In addition, when a radio transceiver or antennas are replaced or
added to an existing small wireless facility, the wireless provider shall
provide certification from a radio engineer that the continuing operation of
the small wireless facility complies with all applicable FCC standards,
including, but not limited to, radio frequency emissions. Wireless facilities
that vary significantly in design, or increase power output, frequency,
bandwidth or performance, or change the location of the small wireless facility
upon the utility pole or wireless support structure, or increase signal
strength, or make other modifications in other key components, are not
substantially similar, and are subject to standard application processes,
permitting requirements, and fees. The Village has the sole right and
responsibility to determine if a proposed small wireless facility is
substantially similar to the existing small wireless facility; or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes. The
foregoing shall not exempt communications service providers from Village
permitting requirements where traffic patterns are affected or lane closures
are required. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018; amd. Ord. 20-3002, 3-16-2020; Ord. 22-
3090, 7-11-2022)
8-13-6: CONSTRUCTION:
Collocations for which permits are approved shall be completed within one
hundred eighty (180) days of issuance of the permit, unless the Village agrees
to extend the period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Village
utility pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the
site, provided the applicant has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Permits that are not completed
within applicable timelines shall be void absent an extension granted in
writing by the Village. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018)
8-13-7: PERMIT DURATION:
Permits issued for small wireless facilities pursuant to this chapter shall be
for a period of five (5) years. Permits are subject to renewal at the end of
the five (5) year permit period for a successive five (5) year term so long as
the installation complies with the applicable Code provisions in force at the
time of renewal. A finding by the Village at the time of a request for renewal
that an installation does not comply with the applicable Code provisions in
force at the time of the renewal request shall be in writing. If the Act is
repealed or found unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, all
permits granted by the Village under this chapter shall terminate at the end of
their current term. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018)
8-13-8: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Antenna Installations: The maximum permitted height of a small wireless
facility is ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support structure
on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
   B.   New Poles: The maximum permitted height of new or replacement utility
pole or wireless support structure on which a small wireless facility is
collocated is the higher of:
      1.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted, and that is located within three
hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support
structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the Village. The Village
may designate which intersecting right-of- way within three hundred feet (300')
of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the
height limitation for such facility; or
      2.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
   C.   Variance Process: A wireless provider may receive a variance from the
Director of Municipal Services or his or her designee, pursuant to the
procedures set forth in section
8-11-21, "Variances", of this title, from the maximum permitted height of a new
pole set forth in this section, if the wireless provider, in addition to
demonstrating the conditions set forth in section
8-11-21 of this title have been established, can establish that:
      1.   Because of a particular unusual condition, a particular hardship or
practical difficulty to the wireless provider would result, as distinguished
from a mere inconvenience, and such hardship or difficulty has not been created
by the wireless provider; and
      2.   Existing utility poles or wireless support structures, or a new
utility pole at the maximum permitted height for a new pole allowed by this
section cannot accommodate the wireless facility at a height necessary to
function effectively, under reasonable terms and conditions; and
      3.   The use of existing utility poles or other wireless support
structures, or a new utility pole at the maximum permitted height for a new
pole allowed by this section, is not technically feasible. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-
2018)
8-13-9: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Public Safety Technology: A wireless provider's operation of a small
wireless facility may not interfere with the frequencies used by a public
safety agency for public safety communications. A wireless provider must
install small wireless facilities of the type and frequency that will not cause
unacceptable interference with a public safety agency's communications
equipment. Unacceptable interference is determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licenses by a public safety agency. If a small wireless facility causes such
interference, and the wireless provider has been given written notice of the
interference by the public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own
expense, shall take all reasonable steps necessary to correct and eliminate the
interference, including, but not limited to, powering down the small wireless
facility and later powering up the small wireless facility for intermittent
testing, if necessary. The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless
facility based on such interference if the wireless provider is not making a
good faith effort to remedy the problem in a manner consistent with the
abatement and resolution procedures for interference with public safety
spectrum established by the FCC, including 47 CFR Parts 22.970 through 22.973
and 47 CFR Parts 90.672 through 90.675. The burden to establish the good faith
effort shall be on the wireless provider, which shall timely deliver to the
Village all information necessary to demonstrate its efforts to resolve the
interference consistent with the Code of Federal Regulations sections cited
above. Failure to remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a
public nuisance and the small wireless facility may be abated through the
procedures for abatement of such nuisances set forth in this Code.
   B.   A wireless provider shall not construct or maintain any small wireless
facility that:
      1.   Obstructs, impedes or hinders the usual travel or public safety on a
right-of-way;
      2.   Obstructs the legal use of right-of-way by utility users;
      3.   Violates nondiscriminatory applicable codes;
      4.   Violates or conflicts with Chapter 8-11 (Standards For Construction
Of Utility Facilities On Rights-Of-Way) or Chapter 10-4 (Development Standards
Of General Applicability) of this Code, or other applicable regulations set
forth in this Code or otherwise adopted by the Village, except to the extent
such chapters, sections or regulations may be modified by the provisions of
this Chapter; or
      5.   Violates the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.)
   C.   Contractual Requirements: Wireless providers shall comply with all
requirements imposed by a contract between the Village and any private property
owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to utility poles
and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   D.   Ground-Mounted Equipment: Wireless providers shall comply with the
ground mounted equipment spacing requirements, if any, within rights-of-way as
set forth in Chapter 8-11 (Standards For Construction Of Utility Facilities On
Rights- Of-Way) of this Code.
   E.   Undergrounding:
      1.   The wireless provider shall comply with Village Code provisions or
regulations concerning undergrounding requirements, if any, that prohibit the
installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles or equipment
in the right-of-way.
      2.   A wireless provider may receive a variance from the Director of
Municipal Services or his or her designee, pursuant to the procedures set forth
in Section
8-11-21 (Variances) of Chapter 8-11 (Standards For Construction Of Utility
Facilities On Rights-Of-Way) of this Code, to allow a small wireless facility
to be located above ground in an area where Village ordinances or regulations
prohibit or restrict above ground facilities if, in addition to demonstrating
the conditions of Section
8-11-21 have been established, the wireless provider can establish that:
         a.   Underground equipment is not technically feasible and there is no
reasonable alternative or location that is more aesthetically favorable to
adjacent property owners and to effective use and management of the right-of-
way; and
         b.   An above-ground small wireless facility at the proposed location
is necessary at the proposed location to provide coverage in a specified area;
and
         c.   An above-ground small wireless facility at the proposed location
will not disrupt traffic or pedestrian circulation or constitute a safety
hazard; and
         d.   An above-ground small wireless facility at the proposed location
will not interfere with public safety uses or frequencies; and
         e.   Space exists within the public right-of-way to accommodate the
above-ground small wireless facility at the proposed location; and
         f.   An above-ground small wireless facility at the proposed location
will not create a safety hazard; and
         g.   The above-ground small wireless facility is located and designed
in such a way so as to minimize its visual impact on adjacent properties; and
         h.   In any historical area, that the above-ground small wireless
facility will not detrimentally affect the historical nature of the area.
      3.   Screening For Ground- Mounted Facilities: Where a ground-mounted
facility is allowed, such equipment shall be screened around the perimeter in
accordance with a landscape plan sealed by a professional landscape engineer.
Plant materials shall include a mixture of deciduous and coniferous planting
materials. The owner or wireless provider shall be responsible for maintenance
of all landscaping as provided in the approved landscape plan.
      4.   Future Undergrounding: The Village may, from time to time, make a
decision to eliminate above-ground utility poles of a particular type
generally, such as electric utility poles, in all or a significant portion of
the Village. In the event that such a utility pole has a collocated small
wireless facility in place at the time of such a decision, the Village shall
either:
         a.   Continue to maintain the utility pole, or install and maintain a
reasonable utility pole or wireless support structure for the collocation of
the small wireless facility; or
         b.   Offer to sell the utility pole to the wireless provider at a
reasonable cost, or allow the wireless provider to install its own utility pole
so it can maintain service from that location.
   F.   Collocation Limits: Wireless providers shall not collocate small
wireless facilities on Village utility poles that are part of an electric
distribution or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone
of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole. However, the antenna and
support equipment of the small wireless facility may be located in the
communications space on the Village utility pole and on the top of the pole, if
not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider complies with applicable
codes for work involving the top of the pole. For purposes of this subsection,
the terms "communications space", "communication worker safety zone", and
"electric supply zone" have the meanings given to those terms in the National
Electric Safety Code as published by the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers.
   G.   Code Compliance: Wireless providers shall comply with applicable codes
and local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
   H.   Radio Frequency Compliance: Wireless providers shall comply with the
FCC's radio frequency emissions standards at all times. Wireless providers are
required to perform on-going monitoring of small wireless facilities to ensure
all equipment continues to operate within allowable FCC radio frequency
emission ranges and shall, on a quarterly basis, provide to the Village a
certification with supporting information confirming whether all of the
wireless provider's small wireless facilities within the Village operated in
compliance with all FCC radio frequency emission limits during the quarterly
reporting period. The certified quarterly report shall be delivered to the
Village Manager by the thirtieth of the month following the end of the calendar
quarter. A wireless provider shall, upon request of the Village at any time,
perform radio frequency testing of all or specific small wireless facilities,
provide such testing results to the Village, and shall promptly respond to all
Village requests for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the
foregoing. Village staff may, at the Village's option, accompany the wireless
provider or its agents in the performance of such testing. The Village has the
right, but not the obligation, to employ a qualified radio frequency engineer
to conduct periodic random and unannounced testing of permitted small wireless
facilities, including micro wireless facilities and other similar
telecommunications equipment, to determine their compliance with all FCC radio
frequency emission limits. In the event the Village decides to perform its own
testing, the Village may, where it deems it necessary, request that the
wireless provider be present for the test. Any small wireless facility found
not to comply with FCC radio frequency emission standards shall be immediately
reported by the wireless provider to the FCC, with a copy of such report sent
at the same time to the Village Manager, and shall be powered-down, adjusted,
repaired, and/or replaced, or shut off and/or removed by the wireless provider
within three (3) calendar days of the provider becoming aware of the violation.
Small wireless facilities that exceed the FCC's radio frequency emissions
standards are declared a public nuisance, and may be summarily abated by the
Village. Failure by a wireless provider to cure a violation of the FCC radio
frequency emission standards within three (3) calendar days shall result in a
revocation of the applicable small wireless facility permit, and/or a citation
for maintaining a public nuisance with a fine in the amount of seven hundred
and fifty dollars ($750.00), with each day of continued operation without cure
being a separate violation. In the event the Village determines through its own
testing that a small wireless facility is not in compliance with any legal
requirements or conditions related to radio frequency, the wireless provider
shall, in addition to the foregoing, be responsible for all costs and expenses
incurred by the Village in connection with the investigation, testing,
enforcement and/or remediation of such noncompliance.
   I.   Annual Certification: Each year on July 1, a wireless provider shall
submit an affidavit to the Village which shall list, by location, all small
wireless facilities it owns within the Village, and shall certify (1) each such
installation remains in use; (2) such in-use facility remains covered by
required insurance; and (3) each such installation which is no longer in use.
Any small wireless facility that is no longer in use shall be removed by the
wireless provider within ninety (90) calendar days of delivery of the
affidavit.
   J.   Utility worker safety: Prior to the commencement of construction of a
small wireless facility, the wireless provider must provide the Village with
any required safety precautions for individuals working on or near the facility
site. If refresher training, personal protective equipment, or tools are
required for safety purposes related to a small wireless facility collocated on
a Village-owned utility pole, then the wireless provider must reimburse the
Village for all of its actual costs of those elements. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-
2018; amd. Ord. 20-3002, 3-16-2020)
8-13-10: STEALTH, CONCEALMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
Every small wireless facility installation shall comply with the following
standards:
   A.   General Stealth, Concealment And Design Standards: Installations shall
comply with any stealth, concealment, design and aesthetic standards applicable
to utility installations in the public right-of-way, as set forth in chapter
11, "Standards For Construction Of Utility Facilities On Rights-Of-Way", of
this title, as well as any written design standards that are generally
applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable stealth, concealment,
design and aesthetic requirements that are otherwise identified by the Village
in an ordinance, written policy adopted by the Village Board of Trustees, in
the Village's comprehensive plan, or in a written design plan that applies to
other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a
historic district.
   B.   Historic Districts And Landmarks: For areas designated as historic
districts, or on buildings or structures designated as historic landmarks, in
addition to the stealth, concealment and design requirements referenced above,
the following additional restrictions/conditions apply to the installation of
small wireless facilities:
      1.   Small wireless facilities shall be comprised of materials that are
consistent with the surrounding elements so as to blend architecturally with
any buildings or structures designated as historic landmarks or located within
a designated historic district, and shall be designed to blend with the
surrounding historical landmarks and/or district in design and color.
      2.   Small wireless facilities shall not be mounted upon any structure
designated as a historic landmark, including but not limited to the Village's
historic water tower.
   C.   Historic District Or Landmark Limitations:
      1.   Any stealth, concealment and design standards in a historic district
or on a historic landmark, including restrictions on a specific category of
utility poles, may not have the effect of prohibiting any provider's
technology. Such stealth, concealment and design measures shall not be
considered a part of the small wireless facility for purposes of the size
restrictions of a small wireless facility.
      2.   This section shall not be construed to limit the Village's
enforcement of historic preservation in conformance with the requirements
adopted pursuant to the Illinois State Agency Historic Resources Preservation
Act or the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 54 USC section 300101 et
seq., and the regulations adopted to implement those laws. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-
2018)
8-13-11: RESERVATION OF VILLAGE UTILITY POLE SPACE:
The Village may reserve space on Village-owned utility poles for future public
safety uses or for Village electric utility uses. Such reservation may preclude
collocation of small wireless facilities if the Village reasonably determines
that the Village's utility pole cannot accommodate both uses. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-
23-2018)
8-13-12: APPLICABILITY OF EXISTING AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Existing Installations: Subject to any applicable termination
provisions, where an existing agreement is in place between the Village and a
wireless provider relating to the collocation of small wireless facilities on
Village utility poles on June 1, 2018, such agreement shall remain in effect
for all small wireless facilities collocated on the Village's utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted prior to June 1, 2018.
   B.   Applications Received Between June 1, 2018 And June 1, 2020: Subject to
any applicable termination provisions, where an existing agreement is in place
between the Village and a wireless provider relating to the collocation of
small wireless facilities on Village utility poles on June 1, 2018, such
agreement shall remain in effect for all small wireless facilities collocated
on the Village's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted after June 1,
2018, but prior to June 1, 2020, until June 1, 2020 or receipt by the Village
from the wireless provider of a notice that it is opting to accept the rates,
fees and terms of this chapter and the Act received after June 1, 2020,
whichever is later.
   C.   Applications Received After June 1, 2020: Subject to any applicable
termination provisions, where an existing agreement is in place between the
Village and a wireless provider relating to the collocation of small wireless
facilities on Village utility poles on June 1, 2018, such agreement shall
remain in effect for all small wireless facilities collocated on the Village's
utility poles pursuant to applications submitted after June 1, 2020, until
receipt by the Village of a notice from the wireless provider that it is
accepting the rates, fees, terms and conditions of this chapter. (Ord. 18-2929,
7-23-2018)
8-13-13: COLLOCATION ON VILLAGE OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE:
   A.   Fee: The annual fee to collocate a small wireless facility on a
Village-owned utility pole located in a right-of-way shall be the higher of:
      1.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00)/year per small wireless facility; or
      2.   The actual, direct, and reasonable costs related to the wireless
providers use of space on the pole.
   B.   Exception: Small wireless facilities collocated on Village- owned
utility poles located outside of public right-of-way are not subject to the
rate limitations in this section.
   C.   Attachment Agreement: An attachment agreement in a form approved by the
Village is required for any collocation upon any Village owned utility pole or
wireless support structure. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018)
8-13-14: NOTICE OF SALE OR TRANSFER:
A wireless provider shall, prior to any sale or transfer of ownership or
control of a small wireless facility located within the jurisdiction of the
Village, provide written notice to the Village of such sale or transfer of
control. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018)
8-13-15: ABANDONMENT:
   A.   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period
of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of the
facility shall remove the small wireless facility and any associated wireless
support structure or utility pole within ninety (90) days after receipt of
written notice from the Village notifying it of the abandonment. The
requirement that a wireless support structure or utility pole associated with
an abandoned small wireless facility be removed does not apply if the owner of
the facility does not own or otherwise have the right to remove the structure
or pole, and does not apply to Village-owned utility poles unless requested by
the Village. The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the Village to the owner at its last known address. If
the small wireless facility and associated wireless support structure or
utility pole, if any, is not removed within ninety (90) days after receipt of
such notice, such wireless facility and associated structure or pole shall be
deemed to be a nuisance and the Village may remove or cause the removal of such
facility, structure or pole, and recover or place a lien for its costs,
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment or other agreement for Village
utility poles or through the procedures for abatement of nuisances set forth in
this Code.
   B.   In the event the Village suspects that the wireless provider is no
longer using the small wireless facilities to provide wireless service, it may
send the wireless provider written notice that requires the wireless provider
to remove the small wireless facility and associated wireless support structure
or utility pole or provide proof that the small wireless facility is
operational and still being used within thirty (30) days, and informs the
wireless provider that failure to provide proof or to remove the small wireless
facility, and any associated wireless support structure or utility pole will
result in the Village removing the small wireless facility, structure or pole,
at the wireless provider's cost. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018; amd. Ord. 20-3002,
3-16-2020)
8-13-16: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Cook County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve
all disputes arising under the Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning
rates for collocation of small wireless facilities on Village utility poles
within the right-of-way, the Village shall allow the collocating person to
collocate on its poles at annual rates of no more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year per pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution
of the dispute. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018)
8-13-17: INDEMNIFICATION:
Other than for liabilities and losses due to or caused by the sole negligence
of the Village or its employees or agents, a wireless provider shall indemnify
and hold the Village harmless against any and all liability or loss from
personal injury or property damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole
or in part, the use or occupancy of the Village infrastructure or improvements,
or right-of-way associated with such infrastructure or improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless
provider proceeding under this chapter waives any claims it may have against
the Village with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018)
8-13-18: INSURANCE:
At all times during the period in which a wireless provider's facilities are
located on Village infrastructure, improvements or in right-of-way, the
wireless provider shall, at its own sole cost and expense, carry the following
insurance coverages:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' compensation insurance within statutory limits as required by
law; and
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the Village infrastructure, improvements or rights- of-way, including
coverage for bodily injury and property damage, with limits not less than:
      1.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death to
each person;
      2.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage resulting
from any one accident; and
      3.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
The wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and shall provide certificates of insurance
and proof of inclusion of the Village in a commercial general liability policy
to the Village prior to the collocation of any small wireless facility, and
shall keep updated certificates and proof of inclusion on file with the Village
at all times that the provider maintains small wireless facilities within the
Village.
   D.   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limits required by the Village. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement that the Village be named an additional insured. A wireless
provider that self- insures shall provide to the Village evidence sufficient to
demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance limits required
by the Village. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018)
8-13-19: MAINTENANCE OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   A wireless provider shall maintain all small wireless facilities
installed within the Village in a condition that maintains the safety,
integrity and aesthetics of such facilities. Small wireless facilities shall
not appear to be unkempt. In the event of a failure to properly maintain such
facilities, the Village shall notify the wireless provider, in writing, who
shall have thirty (30) days to correct the identified maintenance violation. If
not corrected within such period, the Village reserves the right to take such
action as it deems necessary, including revocation of the permit. Maintenance
and replacement of small wireless facilities shall be performed by the wireless
provider at the wireless provider's sole cost and expense.
   B.   In the event of an emergency involving an imminent threat to life or
property, the Village may take corrective action to eliminate such emergency at
the wireless provider's expense. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-2018)
8-13-20: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   A permit to collocate a small wireless facility may be revoked for one
(1) or more of the following reasons:
      1.   The wireless provider obtained approval by means of fraud or made a
misrepresentation of a material fact with respect to the permit application, or
any required documentation or submittal.
      2.   The wireless provider failed to construct the small wireless
facility in accordance with the approved plans.
      3.   The wireless provider failed to comply within any material condition
of a permit issued.
      4.   The wireless provider substantially expanded or altered the use or
the structure of the small wireless facility beyond what was requested in the
permit application or approved, without the approval of the Village.
      5.   The wireless provider failed to notify the Village of the
replacement of small wireless facilities as required by this chapter.
      6.   A substantial change of law has occurred affecting the wireless
provider's authority to occupy or use the property upon which the small
wireless facility is located.
      7.   The small wireless facility interferes with vehicular or pedestrian
use of the public right-of-way.
      8.   The wireless provider has failed to make a safe and timely
restoration of the right-of-way or the property upon which the small wireless
facility is located.
      9.   The wireless provider has failed to properly maintain the small
wireless facility as required by this Chapter.
      10.   The wireless provider has failed to abate interference with public
safety communications in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR Parts 22.970 through 22.973 and 47 CFR Parts 90.672 through
90.675.
      11.   The small wireless facility has been abandoned and the wireless
provider has failed to remove the small wireless facility as provided in this
Chapter.
      12.   The small wireless facility is found to have been in violation of
FCC radio frequency emission standards and the wireless provider, after
becoming aware of such violation, fails to shut-down or otherwise cure the
violation within three (3) calendar days.
   B.   Written notification of the permit revocation shall be sent by
certified mail or shall be personally delivered to the wireless provider
setting forth the basis for the revocation. The wireless provider shall, within
fourteen (14) days of the notice of revocation, file a written response with
the Director of Municipal Services or his or her designee setting forth the
reasons why the permit should not be revoked along with such evidence in
opposition to the revocation as the wireless provider determines necessary.
Failure to file a response with the Director of Municipal Services or his or
her designee shall be deemed an admission of the facts set forth in the
notification of written notification and shall result in automatic revocation
of the permit. The Director of Municipal Services or his or her designee shall
render findings and a decision within twenty one (21) days of the date of
receipt of the wireless provider's response, if any.
   C.   If the Director of Municipal Services or his or her designee revokes
the permit, the wireless provider may file a written notice of appeal with the
Village Clerk within twenty one (21) days of notification of the permit
revocation. Such notice shall contain a response to the decision of the
Director of Municipal Services or his or her designee. The Village Board shall
hear the revocation appeal and render a decision on such appeal. (Ord. 18-2929,
7-23-2018; amd. Ord. 20-3002, 3-16-2020)
8-13-21: EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter authorizes the collocation of small wireless
facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party without the written consent of the
property owner;
      2.   Property owned or controlled by a unit of local government that is
not located within rights-of-way without the written consent of the unit of
local government (local governments are, however, required to authorize the
collocation of small wireless facilities on utility poles owned or controlled
by the local government or located within rights-of-way to the same extent the
local government permits access to utility poles for other commercial projects
or uses);
      3.   A privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure,
without the consent of the property owner;
      4.   Property owned, leased or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes, without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code 1 ; or
      5.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code 2 , Metra Commuter Rail or any other public
commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of
the Public Utilities Act 3 , without the consent of the rail carrier, public
commuter rail service, or electric utility;
   B.   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to:
      1.   Facilities of an electric or gas public utility or such utility's
wireless facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and maintained
consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the
Public Utilities Act; or
      2.   Small wireless facilities owned by the Village. (Ord. 18-2929, 7-23-
2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/18c-7201.
3 3. 220 ILCS 5/16-102.
CHAPTER 14
ILLICIT WATER DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-14-1: Purpose; Applicability
8-14-2: Statutory Authority
8-14-3: Interpretation; Interaction With Other Code Provisions And Laws
8-14-4: Applicability
8-14-5: Definitions
8-14-6: Responsibility For Administration
8-14-7: Duties Of Director
8-14-8: Representative Capacity
8-14-9: Prohibition Of Illicit Discharges
8-14-10: Prohibition Of Illicit Connections
8-14-11: Drains And Connections; Restrictions
8-14-12: Enforcement, Inspections And Testing
8-14-13: Submission Of Notice Of Intent (NOI) To The Department
8-14-14: Notification Of Spills
8-14-15: Enforcement; Violations
8-14-16: Notice To Correct Violations; Director May Take Action
8-14-17: Emergency Cease And Desist Orders
8-14-18: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
8-14-19: Nuisance Abatement
8-14-20: Fines
8-14-21: Remedies Not Exclusive
8-14-22: Suspension Of Municipal Separated Storm Sewer System (MS4) Access Due
To Detection Of Illicit Discharges
8-14-23: Right To Appeal
8-14-24: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
8-14-25: Severability
8-14-26: Ultimate Responsibility
8-14-27: Penalty
8-14-1: PURPOSE; APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the Village, and protect and enhance water quality
in a manner pursuant to and consistent with the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.) through the regulation of non-stormwater
discharges to the storm drainage system. This chapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of discharges other than those occurring as a
direct result of precipitation and/or snowmelt into the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) and the storm drainage system in order to comply with
requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
Phase II permit process. Other purposes of this chapter include:
      1.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 and the storm
drainage system by non-stormwater discharges; and
      2.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4 and the
storm drainage system.
   B.   This chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as THE VILLAGE OF
WESTERN SPRINGS ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION ORDINANCE. (Ord.
20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The President and Board of Trustees have adopted this chapter to regulate the
quality of all stormwater runoff channels, streams and basins in the Village in
accordance with their statutory authority granted by Article VII, Section 7 of
the Illinois Constitution of 1970, and the applicable provisions of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, including the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-20-4, 11-20-10, 11-30, 11-31 and 11-
109. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-3: INTERPRETATION; INTERACTION WITH OTHER CODE PROVISIONS AND LAWS:
   A.   For the purposes of this chapter, the terms and words used herein shall
be interpreted as follows:
      1.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense;
      2.   Words used in the singular number include the plural number and
words used in the plural number include the singular number;
      3.   The words "shall", "will" and "must" are mandatory, not permissive;
and
      4.   The phrase "Director" refers to the individual responsible for the
enforcement. Director shall mean Director of Municipal Services.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, prosperity and general welfare and the environment of the
residents of the Village, and to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and
enabling legislation.
   C.   This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance,
rule, regulation, or other provision of law. Where the conditions imposed by
any provision of this chapter are either more restrictive or less restrictive
than comparable conditions imposed by any other applicable statute, law,
ordinance, regulation, or rule, the provision that is most restrictive or
imposes the higher standards or requirements shall apply.
   D.   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted to be cumulative
of, and to impose limitations in addition to, all other ordinances, laws, codes
and regulations, in existence or which may be passed governing any subject
matter of this chapter. To the greatest extent possible, the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed to be consistent with, and not in conflict with, the
provisions of such other ordinances, laws, codes and regulations, and with each
other, to the end that all such provisions may be given their fullest
application. In the event of a conflict, however, the provisions of this
chapter shall control in all matters involving stormwater, as defined below, to
the maximum extent possible unless such law or regulation has exclusive
regulatory priority over this chapter (e.g., certain Federal or State laws or
regulations). (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-4: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drainage system from
any developed or undeveloped lands within the jurisdiction of the Village,
unless explicitly exempted by section
8-14-9 (Prohibition of Illicit Discharges), including any amendments or
revisions thereto. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings as set forth except where otherwise specifically indicated. Words and
terms not defined shall have the meanings indicated by common dictionary
definition.
BOARD: The Village of Western Springs Board.
BUILDING: A structure that is constructed or erected partially or wholly above
ground and is enclosed by walls and a roof. The term BUILDING includes
manufactured homes and includes both the above-ground and the below-ground
portions of the structure.
CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA): The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. §
1251 et seq., and any subsequent amendments thereto.
COMMITTEE: The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
(MWRD), authorized under 70 Illinois Compiled Statutes 2605/7h.
COMMUNITY: Any municipality, or the unincorporated county, within Cook County
acting as a unit of local government.
COUNTY: The County of Cook, Illinois.
DEPARTMENT: The Village of Western Springs Department of Municipal Services or
successor agency.
DIRECTOR: The Director of Municipal Services, or successor position or his or
her designee.
DRAIN: Piping and appurtenances for conveying a fluid.
FACILITY: Something that is built, installed or established to serve a
particular purpose.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material which may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial hazard to human health, safety, property or the environment.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
   A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface that
allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drainage system including, but
not limited to, any conveyances that allow any non-stormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drainage
system and any connections to the storm drainage system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted or approved by the community; or
   B.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the storm drainage system that has not been documented in plans, maps or
equivalent records and approved by the community.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the storm
drainage system, except as exempted in section
8-14-9 (Prohibition of Illicit Discharges).
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to an industrial NPDES stormwater
permit, as defined in 40 C.F.R, Section 122.26(b)(14).
LINE: A hollow conduit through which fluids are transported between two (2) or
more points.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): A conveyance or system of
conveyances (including, but not limited to, sidewalks, roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made
channels, and storm sewers) owned or operated by a governmental entity and
designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater, and that is not used
for collecting or conveying sewage.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT: A permit issued
by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) that authorizes the
discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is
applicable on an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drainage system that is
not the direct result of precipitation and/or snow melt in the tributary
drainage basin.
NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI): Illinois Environmental Protection Agency notice of
intent to participate in coverage under the general permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity.
PARCEL: Contiguous land under single ownership or control.
PERSON: Any individual, association, partnership, public or private
corporation, municipality, political subdivision, government agency or any
other legal entity, including heirs, successors, agents, officers and assigns
of such entity.
pH NEUTRAL: A pH value between 6.5 and 9.0 standard units.
PLAN OR WATERSHED MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE: The Cook County Stormwater Management
Plan, adopted by the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
Board of Commissioners ("MWRDGC Commissioners") on February 15, 2007, as
amended from time to time, including the Watershed Management Ordinance (the
"WMO") of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
adopted by the MWRDGC Commissioners on October 3, 2013 as Ordinance O13-002.
POLLUTANT: Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, and
accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
sewage, wastewater, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate
metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a
building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
RUNOFF: The waters derived from precipitation and/or melting snow within a
tributary drainage basin that exceeds the infiltration capacity of that basin.
SEWAGE: Polluted stormwater, wastewater or other refuse liquids usually
conveyed by sewers.
SEWER: An artificial conduit to carry off sewage and/or surface water (as from
rainfall), including sanitation, stormwater and/or combined sewers
SEWERAGE: A system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation, pumping and treatment of sewage.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: A facility by which stormwater is collected and/or
conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems,
municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff and drainage from any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STRUCTURE: Anything that is erected or constructed. The term STRUCTURE
includes, without limitation: buildings, manufactured homes, tanks, dams,
sewers, constructed channels, outfalls, parking lots, driveways, roads,
sidewalks and concrete patios.
VILLAGE: The Village of Western Springs, Illinois.
WASTEWATER: Water that has been used and is not for re-use unless treated by a
wastewater treatment facility.
WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES: As defined in the CWA, WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES
applies only to surface waters, rivers, lakes, estuaries, coastal waters and
wetlands. Not all surface waters are legally waters of the United States.
Generally, those waters include the following:
   A.   All interstate waters;
   B.   Intrastate waters used in interstate and/or foreign commerce;
   C.   Tributaries of the above;
   D.   Territorial seas at the cyclical high tide mark; and
   E.   Wetlands adjacent to all of the above. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The Department shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the Department or the
Director under this chapter, including enforcement powers, are granted to each
Village Code Enforcement Officer and may be delegated in writing by the
Director to other persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of, or
in the employ of, the Village or the Department as representatives,
contractors, designees and/or assigns. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-7: DUTIES OF DIRECTOR:
The duties and functions of the Director shall include:
   A.   Determining policy related to and directing the enforcement of this
chapter, as applicable, and as provided for below in section
8-14-12 (Enforcement, Inspections And Testing) and section
8-14-15 (Enforcement; Violations);
   B.   Supervising the execution of this chapter;
   C.   Responsibility for developing and implementing an illicit discharge
detection and elimination program to ensure compliance with the IEPA NPDES
regulations; and
   D.   Notifying the IEPA of any amendments to this chapter. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-
27-2020)
8-14-8: REPRESENTATIVE CAPACITY:
In all cases when any action is taken by the Director, or his or her duly
appointed designee or any Village Code Enforcement Officer, to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, such action shall be taken in the name of and on
behalf of the Village, and neither the Director nor his or her designee or any
Village Code Enforcement Officer, in so acting for the Village, shall be
rendered personally liable. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-9: PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES:
No person shall place, drain or otherwise discharge, cause or allow others
under their control to place, drain or otherwise discharge into the storm
drainage system or MS4 any pollutants or waters containing any pollutants,
other than normal stormwater unless specifically exempted in this section.
   A.   The following discharges into the MS4 or the storm drainage system
shall be prohibited:
      1.   Discharges that are not a direct result of precipitation and or snow
melt within the drainage area of the MS4.
      2.   Discharges from an illicit connection.
   B.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established herein, provided they do not cause an adverse effect on water
quality as determined by the Director:
      1.   Discharges caused by units of local government, governmental
agencies and stormwater management agencies as part of their standard
operations in compliance with all applicable regulations.
      2.   Discharges required by law or authorized by permit, including any
non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver or waste
discharge order issued to the discharger and administered by the USEPA and/or
IEPA.
      3.   Water line and fire hydrant flushing.
      4.   Landscape irrigation water.
      5.   Rising ground waters.
      6.   Ground water infiltration.
      7.   Pumped ground water.
      8.   Discharges from potable water sources.
      9.   Foundation drains.
      10.   Air conditioning condensation.
      11.   Irrigation water (except for wastewater irrigation).
      12.   Springs.
      13.   Water from crawl space pumps.
      14.   Footing drains.
      15.   Storm sewer cleaning water.
      16.   Water from individual residential car washing.
      17.   Routine external building washdown, which does not use detergents.
      18.   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands.
      19.   Dechlorinated pH neutral swimming pool discharges.
      20.   Residual street wash water.
      21.   Discharges or flows from firefighting activities.
      22.   Dechlorinated water reservoir discharges.
      23.   Pavement washwaters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spilled material has been removed).
      24.   Discharges associated with dye testing of water line, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, private drains or septic systems; however, this activity
shall not take place until the discharger, or tester, has provided notification
to the Department at least two (2) full business days prior to the test date,
unless an emergency situation does not allow time for such notification.
      25.   Other discharges approved by the Department as being substantially
like any of the discharge types enumerated in this section. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-
27-2020)
8-14-10: PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS:
   A.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drainage system or MS4 is prohibited.
   B.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   C.   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the person
connects a line conveying sewage to the storm drainage system or MS4, or allows
such a connection to continue.
   D.   Connections in violation of this chapter must be disconnected and
redirected, if necessary, to an approved wastewater management system or the
sanitary sewer system upon approval of the Department and the appropriate
sanitary treatment facility.
   E.   Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps or
the equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system or MS4,
shall be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of
written notice of violation from the Department requiring that such locating be
completed. Such notice shall specify a reasonable time period within which the
location of the drain or conveyance is to be determined, that the drain or
conveyance be identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the
outfall location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, MS4,
sanitary sewer system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these
investigations are to be documented and provided to the Department.
   F.   No person, firm, partnership or corporation engaged in the sewer and/or
plumbing business whether or not licensed by the Village, or in any other
business relating to the construction of buildings, roads or any other type
construction, shall hereafter make a connection between any sanitary sewer main
of the sanitary sewerage collection system of the Village and any roof drain,
footing drain or any other storm water drain, or make any such connection to
any interceptor of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District. Any such
person, firm, partnership or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall, in addition to all other penalties provided for in this chapter,
be subject to the revocation of any business license or building permit issued
to it to conduct business or engage in construction in the Village. (Ord. 20-
3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-11: DRAINS AND CONNECTIONS; RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the Village any extraneous flows.
It shall be unlawful to make, maintain or operate a connection to the sanitary
sewer system of the Village, which contributes, directly or indirectly, any
ground waters, surface waters, storm waters or any other extraneous flows into
the sewer system. This chapter shall also apply to existing connections into
the Village sanitary sewer system.
All drains or connections designed or intended to receive and discharge ground
waters, surface waters, storm waters and other drainage are illegal connections
if a discharge, directly or indirectly, is thereby made into the sanitary sewer
system. Such illegal connections include, but are not limited to, roof drains,
downspouts, footing drains, areaway drains, drain tiles (and sump pumps used to
collect and discharge same), yard drains, catch basins and inlets. (Ord. 20-
3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-12: ENFORCEMENT, INSPECTIONS AND TESTING:
It shall be the duty of the Director, or his or her designee or any Village
Code Enforcement Officer, (hereinafter referred to as the Enforcement Officer),
to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Enforcement Officer shall issue
all necessary notices to inspect, test and abate all illegal connections into
the sanitary sewer system, storm drainage system or MS4 of the Village.
In addition to visual inspections on the outside or the inside of the premises,
the Village may make other tests and inspections of the sanitary sewer system,
storm drainage system or MS4 as it deems necessary in order to locate such
illegal connections and sources of extraneous flows as may exist. The
provisions of this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other
legal remedy available to the Village, including the right to institute legal
proceedings to discover and order the disconnection of any illegal connections
that are found to exist. If access to a premises is denied, the Enforcement
Officer may file an administrative search warrant and seek an order of entry
from a court. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-13: SUBMISSION OF NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI) TO THE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Any person operating a facility subject to the IEPA's general permit to
discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity shall submit a copy of
the notice of intent (NOI) to the Department at the same time the operator
submits the original NOI to the IEPA, as applicable.
   B.   The copy of the NOI may be delivered to the Department either in person
or by mailing it to:
      Notice of Intent to Discharge Stormwater
      Village of Western Springs
      Department of Municipal Services
      740 Hillgrove Avenue
      Western Springs, Illinois 60558
      Attn: Director of Municipal Services
   C.   A person commits an offense if the person operates a facility that is
discharging stormwater associated with industrial activity without having
submitted a copy of the NOI to do so to the Department. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-
2020)
8-14-14: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
   A.   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
owning, leasing or exercising control over a property, or responsible for
emergency response for a property, has information of any known or suspected
spill of materials which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or
pollutants discharging into the MS4 or the storm drainage system, said person
shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment and cleanup
of such spill.
   B.   In the event of such a spill, said person shall immediately notify
local emergency dispatch services and act in accordance with Illinois Emergency
Management Agency (IEMA) and IEPA regulations.
   C.   Said person shall notify the Department of the spill in person or by
phone, facsimile or email no later than the next business day. Notifications in
person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to
the Department within three (3) business days of the phone notice.
   D.   If the spill emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment,
the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site
written record of the spill and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence.
Such records shall be retained for at least five (5) years.
   E.   Proper notice, including containment and cleanup as outlined in this
section, shall exempt the notifying parties from applicable fines as set forth
in section
8-14-20 (Fines).
   F.   Failure to provide notification of a spill as provided above is a
violation of this chapter.
   G.   Additionally, the person owning, leasing or exercising control of a
property shall indemnify the County of Cook and the Village on the line of the
spill for any contamination or harm caused to a user of the storm sewer system.
   H.   Notwithstanding the language of division B of this section, the party
causing a spill that contaminates or harms a storm sewer system shall not be
relieved of liability for damages resulting from such act. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-
2020)
8-14-15: ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The Director shall have primary responsibility for the enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter. The Village may enter into agreements with
other governmental units for the purpose of implementing this chapter.
   B.   A person violates this chapter when that person:
      1.   Performs any act expressly prohibited by any provision of this
chapter;
      2.   Disobeys, neglects or fails to carry out or comply with any
provision of this chapter or of any order or notice issued by the Director;
      3.   Allows any condition or act that violates any provision of this
chapter to continue unabated on property owned, leased, managed or under the
control of such person; or
      4.   Directs, orders, permits or allows a second person to do any act
expressly prohibited by any provision of this chapter, or to maintain or
continue unabated any condition or act that violates any provision of this
chapter on property owned, leased, managed or under the control of the first
person. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-16: NOTICE TO CORRECT VIOLATIONS; DIRECTOR MAY TAKE ACTION:
   A.   The Director may issue a notice of violation ordering a person to take
action to achieve compliance with the provisions of this chapter and/or to
cease and desist from any action conducted in violation of this chapter and/or
to assess a fine for actions that violate any provision of this chapter.
Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of a notice of violation and
order to comply shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   B.   The Director shall set forth the form and content of any notices issued
under this chapter.
   C.   The Director may issue a warning of violation ordering a person to take
action to achieve compliance with the provisions of this chapter. If a person
fails to comply with the terms and conditions of a warning, the Director may,
thereafter, issue a notice of violation.
   D.   The Director may issue a warning of violation and disburse educational
materials outlining appropriate measures to minimize the discharge of
pollutants.
   E.   If a person fails to comply with an order issued under this section,
the Director may direct the appropriate legal counsel to commence any legal
proceeding authorized by this chapter, under the law or equity, necessary to
enforce any provision of this chapter and/or to protect public health and
safety. Any legal action brought under this chapter shall be in the name of the
village. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-17: EMERGENCY CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS:
   A.   The Department may obtain an emergency order in the event of the
following:
      1.   Any person has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter or any order issued hereunder, or that the person's past
violations are likely to recur; and
      2.   That the person's violation has caused or contributed to an actual
or threatened discharge to the MS4 or storm drainage system and an imminent
threat of violation is present.
      3.   The Department may issue the emergency order to the violator
directing that the violator:
         a.   Immediately cease and desist all such violations;
         b.   Immediately comply with all ordinance requirements; and
         c.   Take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   B.   Any person notified of an emergency order under this section shall
immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering discharge. In the
event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the
emergency order, the Department may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize harm to the MS4, storm drainage system or waters of the
United States, and/or endangerment to persons or to the environment, including
immediate termination of a facility's water supply, sewer connection or other
municipal utility services. The Department may allow the person to recommence
its discharge when it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Department
that the period of endangerment has passed, unless further termination
proceedings are initiated against the discharger under this chapter. A person
that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent
endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes
of the harmful discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence, to the Department within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of
the emergency order. Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order shall not
be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
violator.
   C.   The Department may also seek any appropriate judicial orders to enforce
its emergency orders. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-18: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any provision of
this chapter shall constitute a threat to public health and safety and is
declared and deemed a public nuisance and shall be subject to the provisions of
title 5 (Public Health and Safety), chapter 1 (Nuisances) of this Code. (Ord.
20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-19: NUISANCE ABATEMENT:
   A.   Whenever a nuisance shall be found to exist on any premises, the
Director may order such nuisance to be abated upon determination that the
nuisance constitutes a threat to public health or safety.
   B.   In the event of an emergency situation, as determined by the Director,
involving an immediate threat to public health and safety, the Director may
direct legal counsel to immediately commence any legal or equitable proceeding
necessary to restrain, abate and/or remedy said situation. The Director may
take such action without having to first issue a notice of violation to the
person(s) having control of, or acting as agent for, such premises where the
nuisance is located, or waiting for such person(s) to abate or remove such
nuisance as previously ordered by the Director.
   C.   In all other cases, the Director may notify, in writing, the person(s)
having control of, or acting as agent for, such premises where the nuisance is
located and directing such person(s) to abate or remove such nuisance within
such time as is stated on the notice. Upon the failure or refusal of such
person(s) to comply with the notice, the Director may direct that appropriate
proceeding commence to compel the abatement, or removal, of such a nuisance in
any manner allowed by law, equity or this chapter and/or authorizing the
Department to act to abate, or remove, such nuisance. The person(s) having
control of such premises, in addition to the other remedies provided by this
chapter, shall be liable to the Department for any costs incurred by the
Department to effect such abatement, or removal, including reasonable
attorney's fees and other costs of enforcement, to be recovered by a court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-20: FINES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty
offense. Such violation shall be punishable by a fine of not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) each day, or any portion of a day, during which
such violation is committed, continued or permitted shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-21: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedy
available under this chapter or under any applicable Federal, State or local
law and do not supersede or limit any and all other penalties provided by law.
The Director may seek, at his/her discretion, cumulative remedies. (Ord. 20-
3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-22: SUSPENSION OF MUNICIPAL SEPARATED STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4) ACCESS DUE
TO DETECTION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES:
   A.   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have
their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an
illicit discharge. The Department shall notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the Department for a
reconsideration and hearing. A person commits an offense if the person
reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section, without
the prior approval of the Department.
   B.   In emergency situations, the Department may, without prior notice,
suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge, which presents or may present imminent
and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of
persons, or to the MS4, storm drainage system or waters of the United States.
If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency,
the Department may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize
damage to the MS4, storm drainage system or waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to public health and safety. The Department shall obtain an
emergency court order authorizing such termination. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-23: RIGHT TO APPEAL:
Every request for an appeal of a decision of an Enforcement Officer issued
under this chapter shall be made, in writing, and addressed to and filed with
the Director. If a decision of the Director is appealed, then the appeal will
be heard by the Village Public Works and Water Committee. The Director, in his/
her discretion, may request that an appeal be heard by the Village Public Works
and Water Committee. Appeals will be handled in the manner provided for below.
   A.   Any person aggrieved by any decision, ruling or determination by the
Director or an Enforcement Officer, or by any interpretation or application of
any provision of this chapter may appeal such matter. An appeal of any decision
made by the Director or an Enforcement Officer shall be made within seven (7)
calendar days of the decision contested, excepting an appeal involving the
assessment charge or calculation of any fine or penalty in which case an appeal
shall be brought before said amount becomes thirty (30) calendar days past due.
   B.   The appeal procedure shall commence when the person aggrieved submits
to the Director, in writing, a notice of appeal of the decision of the Director
or an Enforcement Officer. Such notice shall contain a short, clear statement
stating the following:
      1.   Identifying the decision of the Director or an Enforcement Officer
which such person is appealing and how the chapter has been misread,
misinterpreted or misapplied in this instance and/or any mistakes of fact the
aggrieved believes the Director or an Enforcement Officer to have relied upon;
and
      2.   The name and a current United States Postal mailing address (not a
PO Box), email address and a telephone number of the person filing the appeal,
which contact information shall be used for giving notices related to the
appeal. The person filing the appeal shall attach all written materials on
which he or she intends to rely upon in support of the appeal.
   C.   The Director may, without conducting a hearing, grant some or all of
the relief sought by the appeal or may otherwise modify the decision in a
manner that is satisfactory to the party who filed the appeal so as to resolve
the appeal, or may set the matter over for a hearing in the manner provided in
this section.
   D.   Upon receipt of such notice of appeal, if relief is not granted by the
Director in accordance with this section, the Director shall set a date, time
and location for a hearing. Such hearing shall take place no fewer than
fourteen (14) calendar days nor more than thirty (30) calendar days from the
date that the Director receives such notice of appeal, unless the Director and
party requesting the hearing agree to a different schedule. The Director shall
notify the person filing the appeal of the date of such hearing. The Department
may file a response to the appeal with the Director in advance of the hearing
date. A copy of the Department's response shall be provided to the person
filing the appeal at least three (3) calendar days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   E.   At the hearing, the person filing the appeal may appear in person or be
represented by counsel, or request a decision based on his/her written appeal.
The Director shall have the authority to reverse, modify or affirm any
decision, ruling or determination made pursuant to this chapter upon appeal.
The decision by the Director concerning the appeal shall be in writing, shall
be delivered to the person filing the appeal at the United States Postal
mailing address and email address provided, and shall state a finding(s) upon
which the decision is based. The decision of the Director shall be a final
administrative decision, unless an appeal of the decision is made to the Public
Works and Water Committee within ten (10) calendar days of the date of its
issuance by the Director. Such an appeal shall be filed with the Director and
addressed to both the Director and the Chair of the Public Works and Water
Committee. The appeal shall state the relief sought and reasons for contesting
the decision of the Director and may include additional supporting documents if
new information is relevant to the appeal. The Department may file a response
to the appeal, a copy of which shall be provided to the person filing the
appeal.
   F.   The Public Works and Water Committee shall have the authority to
reverse, modify or affirm any decision, ruling or determination by the Director
or an Enforcement Officer made pursuant to this chapter upon appeal. The Public
Works and Water Committee shall not act in a manner that would violate or in
any way conflict with any Federal or State standard or requirement. The
Committee shall conduct a hearing on the appeal at an open, pubic meeting after
providing written notice of the hearing date, time and location to the person
making the appeal and the Director and their respective representatives. At the
hearing, each party will be given an opportunity to be heard and the Committee
will consider such testimony and any documents filed as part of the appeal. The
decision by the Committee concerning the appeal shall be in writing, shall be
delivered to the person filing the appeal at the United States Postal mailing
address and email address provided, and shall state a finding(s) upon which the
decision is based. The decision of the Committee shall be a final
administrative decision, unless an appeal of the decision is made to the
Village Board within ten (10) calendar days of the date of its issuance by the
Committee. Such an appeal shall be filed with the Director and addressed to
both the Director and the Village President.
   G.   The decision of the Public Works and Water Committee may be appealed to
the Village Board. The appeal shall be decided by the Village Board at a
hearing held during an open public meeting. The Village Board shall have the
authority to reverse, modify or affirm any decision, ruling or determination by
the Director or an Enforcement Officer or the Committee made pursuant to this
chapter upon appeal. The same notice, hearing procedures and decision-making
process in regard to the appeal, as set forth in subsection F above, shall
apply to the appeal before the Village Board. The decision of the Village Board
shall be a final administrative decision appealable only to a court pursuant to
an administrative law action. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-24: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within seven (7)
calendar days of the decision of the Director or Committee upholding the
decision of the Department, then representatives of the Department are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. In no case shall an appeal stay or bar the Village from
commencing a legal action seeking emergency relief. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-25: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable. If any provision,
clause, sentence or paragraph of this chapter or the application thereof to any
person, establishment or circumstances shall be held invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect the other provisions or application of this chapter. (Ord. 20-
3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-26: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend or imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution or unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
8-14-27: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the Village with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. The Village may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in section A above, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the Village by reason of such violation. (Ord. 20-3011, 7-27-2020)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FEE SCHEDULES
ARTICLE A. PERMIT AND REVIEW FEES
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Plan Review Deposits And Fees
9-1A-2: Floodplain And Stormwater Management Plan Review And Inspection Fees
9-1A-3: Conditional Uses; Planned Development; Subdivision Fees
9-1A-4: Building And Site Development Permit Fees
9-1A-5: Water Main Tap On Fee
9-1A-6: Sewer Main Connection Fee
9-1A-7: Water Meter Fee
9-1A-8: Street Openings Fee
9-1A-9: Demolition Permit Fees And Deposit
9-1A-10: Sign Permit Fees
9-1A-11: Penalty For Work Without A Permit
9-1A-12: Reinspection Fee
9-1A-13: Moving A Building Or Structure
9-1A-14: Elevator, Lift And Dock Inspections
9-1A-15: Fee Waiver
9-1A-1: PLAN REVIEW DEPOSITS AND FEES:
   A.   Fee Deposit Established: A plan review fee deposit shall be paid upon
submission of building construction drawings or engineering plans in the
following amounts:
 
1. Residential construction (new homes, additions, etc.) $2,000.00
2. Commercial or institutional construction              2,500.00
3. Detached garage                                       2,000.00
 
(Ord. 17-2872, 2-27-2017)
   B.   Fee Determined; Village Administrative Fee: The plan review fee deposit
shall be paid prior to a review by the Department of Building and Development
or consulting services and before the issuance of a building, site development
or floodplain and stormwater management permit. If a permit is issued after the
plan review, the amount of the permit will be according to the provisions of
section
9-1A-4 of this article. If the plan review fees listed in subsection A of this
section are not sufficient to cover the costs of the plan review by consultants
hired by the Village (including, but not limited to, fees and costs associated
with the review, inspection and processing of the application or petition by
the Village Engineer, Village Forester, Village Landscape Architect and Land
Planner and Village Attorney or other consultants retained by the Village), the
applicant shall pay the outstanding amount prior to the issuance of a building
permit. There shall be an administrative fee charged to each applicant to
reimburse the Village for the Village staff time and resources expended
relative to the application or petition. The Village administrative fee shall
be ten percent (10%) of the total amount of Village consultant fees incurred
relative to the application or petition and shall be in addition to the Village
consultant fees.
   C.   Fee When Permit Is Not Issued; Additional Expenses: In the event that a
building, site development or stormwater management permit is not issued after
a plan review, in addition to the Village administrative fee and the actual
review fees incurred by the Village as a consequence of the Village consultants
(including, but not limited to, the Village Engineer, Village Forester, Village
Landscape Architect and Land Planner and Village Attorney or other consultants
retained by the Village) reviewing, inspecting and processing the application
and submittals, an administrative processing fee of ten percent (10%) of the
fee deposit shall be retained by the Village for processing the return of any
remaining balance of the fee deposit.
If the plan review fees listed in subsection A of this section are not
sufficient to cover the costs of the plan review by the Village Engineer or
consultants hired by the Village, and a building permit is not subsequently
issued, the applicant will be billed for the additional expense. (Ord. 04-2302,
6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
9-1A-2: FLOODPLAIN AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN REVIEW AND INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Fee Established: The floodplain and stormwater management plan review
and inspection fee shall be paid prior to a review by the Department of
Building and Development or consulting services and before the issuance of a
stormwater management permit. No permit will be issued until the total
floodplain and stormwater management plan review and inspection fees due are
paid. There shall be an administrative fee charged to each applicant to
reimburse the Village for the Village staff time and resources expended
relative to the application or petition. The Village administrative fee shall
be ten percent (10%) of the total amount of the Village consultant fees
incurred relative to the application or petition and shall be in addition to
the Village consultant fees. A floodplain and stormwater management plan review
and inspection fee shall be paid upon submission of building construction
drawings or engineering plans in the following amounts:
 
1. Residential construction (new homes, additions, etc.) $ 300.00
2. Commercial or institutional construction              1,000.00
3. Detached garage                                       300.00
 
      4.   Conditional use, planned development and subdivision: The fee for
these developments is established by article B of this chapter and subsection
10-10-17C of this Code plus the Village shall receive an administrative fee of
ten percent (10%) of the total amount of Village consultant fees incurred
relative to the application or petition.
   B.   Fee When Permit Is Not Issued; Additional Expenses: In the event that a
floodplain and stormwater management permit is not issued after a plan review,
in addition to the Village administrative fee and the actual review and
inspection fees incurred by the Village as a consequence of the Village
consultants (including, but not limited to, the Village Engineer, Village
Forester, Village Landscape Architect and Land Planner and Village Attorney or
other consultants retained by the Village) reviewing, inspecting and processing
the application and submittals, an administrative processing fee of ten percent
(10%) of the fee deposit shall be retained by the Village for processing the
return of any remaining balance of the fee deposit.
If the floodplain and stormwater management plan review and inspection fees
listed in subsection A of this section are not sufficient to cover the costs of
the plan review and inspections by the Village Engineer or other consultants
hired by the Village (including, but not limited to, the Village Forester,
Village Landscape Architect and Land Planner and Village Attorney) and a
floodplain and stormwater management permit is not subsequently issued, the
applicant will be billed for the additional expense. (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004,
eff. 7-1-2004)
9-1A-3: CONDITIONAL USES; PLANNED DEVELOPMENT; SUBDIVISION FEES:
   A.   Plan Review Fees: Upon submission by a developer of a conditional use,
planned development or a subdivision, which shall require review by the Village
Engineer or other consultants, the developer shall pay at the time of
submission the filing fee as specified for a conditional use, planned
development or subdivision or as specified in article B of this chapter and
subsection
10-10-17C of the development control ordinance.
   B.   Building Permit Fees: Building permit fees for conditional uses and
planned developments shall be based upon the building permit fee schedule set
forth in section
9-1A-4 of this article. (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
9-1A-4: BUILDING AND SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Building Construction Permit Fees: Building permit fees for each new
building or structure or alterations/additions to existing buildings or
structures shall be based on the following:
1.75 percent of construction costs up to $1,000,000.00
1.0 percent of construction costs for the next $4,000,000.00
0.75 percent of construction costs for all costs above $5,000,000.00
All construction cost estimates will be prepared by the applicant and verified
by the Department of Building and Development. If any conflict occurs, the
amount verified by the Department of Building and Development will be utilized
to determine the permit fee.
   B.   Site Development Permit And Inspection Fees: Site development permit
and inspection fees, which are in addition to building permit fees for all
types of development, including single or multiple lot developments,
subdivisions, planned developments and conditional uses, shall be as follows:
 
1. Residential lots                    $200.00 per lot
2. Commercial lots                     $200.00 per lot
3. Subdivisions, planned developments  $2,000.00 plus $500.00 per acre or part
and conditional uses                    thereof
 
(Ord. 17-2872, 2-27-2017)
There shall be an initial site development inspection for all types of
development and as many construction inspections as deemed necessary by the
Department of Building and Development for all types of buildings or
structures. There shall be an administrative fee charged to each applicant to
reimburse the Village for the Village staff time and resources expended
relative to the application or petition. The Village administrative fee shall
be ten percent (10%) of the total amount of Village consultant fees incurred
relative to the application or petition and shall be in addition to the Village
consultant fees. If the site development permit and inspection fee is not
sufficient to cover the costs of the site development and construction
inspections conducted by the Department of Building and Development or the
Village Engineer or other consultants (including, but not limited to, the
Village Forester, Village Landscape Architect and Land Planner and Village
Attorney) hired by the Village, the applicant will be billed for the additional
expense. (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
   C.   Minimum Building Permit Fee: The minimum building permit fee shall be
fifty dollars ($50.00).
   D.   Building Permits Required: Building permits are required for the
following types of construction:
General:
 Any alteration to a structure
 Any new addition to an existing building
 Any new building
 Scaffolding on public property
 Signs
 Structural repairs due to fire or deterioration
 Tents/trailers
Site Work:
 Awnings and canopies
 Demolition
 Driveway
 Driveway aprons
 Lawn sprinkler systems
 Parking lot, either repaving or new lots
 Patios
 Ramps (for wheelchairs, etc.)
 Sheds
 Sidewalks on private property
 Street openings
 Swimming pools
Concrete Work:
 Courts: tennis, shuffleboard, etc.
 Driveways
 Footings, foundation walls, walls, slabs, etc.
 Piers for decks
 Protection from moisture
Masonry:
 Chimneys
 Fireplaces and hearth (new)
 Grouted masonry
 Hollow unit masonry
 New walls
 Patios
Equipment:
 Central air conditioning
 Clean outs
 Clothes dryer if piping or electric wiring changes
 Drain tile, exterior
 Ductwork
 Elevators
 Fuel tanks and/or piping
 Jacuzzi
 Sewer service changes
 Spas
 Sump or ejector pumps
 Traps
 Water service changes
Electrical:
 Breakers, circuits or lights, additional or new
 Burglar and fire alarm systems
 Drop location change
 Exterior lighting and receptacles
 Outlets, additional
 Panel change
 Satellite dishes and wireless communication devices (except those preempted
  from regulation by federal communications commission)
 Service, new or upgrade
 Smoke detectors directly wired, new
 Underground electric service
Metals:
 Flues
 Metal chimney (new)
 Prefabricated fireplaces
 Structural steel beams
Carpentry:
 Beam and column supports (new)
 Carport
 Decks
 Doors (change in size or location)
 Fences
 Garages
 Headers over doors and windows (new)
 Insulation
 Joists
 Lintels (new)
 Partitions (new)
 Porches
 Prefabricated sheds
 Rafters (new or replacement)
 Shingles
 Skylights
 Stairways
 Windows (changing in size or type)
Roofs:
 New roof
 Repairs of existing roof
Finishes:
 Ceiling (new)
 Gypsum walls (new)
 Plaster (new)
 Roofs (new and repair)
 Siding
 Wallboard if over 100 square feet
 
(Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
   E.   Individual Building Permits Not Required For A Single Lot Or Building
Construction Project: Separate permit(s) for items listed in subsection D of
this section is/are not required for new buildings or structures or additions
to buildings or structures where such construction costs are included in the
overall permit fee pursuant to subsection A of this section. (Ord. 04-2302, 6-
28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
9-1A-5: WATER MAIN TAP ON FEE:
   A.   General Tap On Fee: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each; except
for the properties listed under subsections B and C of this section.
   B.   Tap On Fee For Certain 45th Street Properties: The following properties
shall pay a one-time tap on fee as required:
 
Property        PIN           Deferred
                              Tap On Fee
302 45th Street 18-05-308-023 $6,855.00
303 45th Street 18-05-314-030 6,855.00
304 45th Street 18-05-308-030 6,855.00
319 45th Street 18-05-314-025 6,855.00
 
After payment of the above one-time tap on fee of six thousand eight hundred
fifty five dollars ($6,855.00), each additional or subsequent water main tap on
by the owners of the above listed properties will cost one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
   C.   Reimbursement Fee For Certain Garden Avenue Properties: In accordance
with this subsection, the owners of following properties shall be required to
pay a deferred tap on fee ("reimbursement fee"), pursuant to one of the below
payment options to be selected by each property owner:
 
                                      Estimated Deferred
Property           PIN                Water Main
                                      Tap On Fee
3903 Garden Avenue 18-06-105-002-0000 "Not to exceed" amount equal to $6,849.17
3909 Garden Avenue 18-06-105-004-0000 "Not to exceed" amount equal to $6,849.17
3911 Garden Avenue 18-06-105-005-0000 "Not to exceed" amount equal to $6,849.17
 
The payment options available to the owners of the above properties (or any
successor owner of record, occupant, developer, builder, lessee/licensee or
agent) are as follows:
      1.   The "payment-in-full option" involves payment in full of the final
reimbursement fee, without any accrued interest due within thirty (30) calendar
days of the Village's written notice of the project completion and final
assessed reimbursement fee. The failure of a property owner to make a timely
payment in full shall automatically default the property owner into the
building permit application payment or sale/closing option.
      2.   The "36 month payment plan option" allows the reimbursement fee to
be paid within a thirty six (36) month period, with the payment of accrued
simple interest at three percent (3.0%) per annum. Interest will start to
accrue thirty (30) calendar days after the date of the Village's written notice
of the project completion and final assessed reimbursement fee. The first
monthly payment will be due on the first day of the month following the date of
the Village's written notice of the project completion and final assessed
reimbursement fee and each subsequent monthly payment is due on the first day
of each subsequent month. The Village will provide to the owner a thirty six
(36) month principal and interest payment schedule. There shall be no pre-
payment penalty, and accrued interest shall be prorated on a 1/365th day basis,
based on the outstanding balance due, through the date of final payment in
full.
      3.   The "building permit application payment or sale/closing option"
requires the payment of the final assessed reimbursement fee at the time that
the property owner (or any successor owner of record, occupant, developer,
builder, lessee/licensee or agent) applies for a building permit to redevelop
with new construction, such as a replacement of the principal structure as a
result of a tear-down development, or a major renovation or addition is
proposed for the principal structure or the construction of a garage or as
otherwise provided in this section or at the closing in the event the property
owner sells the property. The property owner (or any successor owner of record,
occupant, developer, builder, lessee/licensee or agent) shall pay the final
assessed reimbursement fee and shall also pay the water meter fee, the sewer
and water tap-on fees and the user fees relating to sewer and water
installations and services for those charges generally applicable in the
Village for similar installations or services at the time that the fees or
charges are due.
The property owners (or any successor owner of record, occupant, developer,
builder, lessee/licensee or agent) shall pay the final assessed reimbursement
fee, plus interest if applicable, and all of the other required fees, including
the water meter fee, except that no permit fees or water tap on fee shall be
charged as part of the payment of the reimbursement fee for the Rose/Garden/
39th Street Service Line Improvements Project. The reimbursement fee is a "not
to exceed" fee based on the final project costs and shall be charged to each
property owner (if the final project costs are equal to or above the "not to
exceed" reimbursement fee) or reduced to match the actual project costs
incurred, if the actual project costs are less than the reimbursement fee. As
part of the public benefit of this project, the Village agrees to waive the
permit fee and water tap on fee required to be paid by each property owner and
agrees to pay any additional project costs that exceed the reimbursement
amount. If necessary, the Village shall amend this section to reflect the
actual, final project costs and the final reimbursement fee. For any other
additional or future sewer and water service line connections, the sewer and
water tap on fees and the user fees relating to sewer and water installations
and services shall be those charges generally applicable in the Village for
similar installations or services at the time that the fees or charges are due.
The estimated Total Water Main and Service Line Improvements Project costs are
one hundred ninety one thousand two hundred sixty seven dollars fifty cents
($191,267.50), which includes the Village's payment for certain improvements to
a water main crossing at Flagg Creek (estimated to be $129,952.50), the
installation of water service line tap-on connections and water service lines
extending from the water mains in the front yard public rights-of-way to the
buffalo boxes for all of the project properties (estimated to be $39,195.00)
and the abandonment in place of the rear yard water mains (estimated to be
$22,120.00). After the project is completed, if necessary, this section will be
amended to state the final reimbursement fee.
After full payment of the reimbursement fee, the Village will file a release of
lien and confirmation of payment in full against title to each subject property
with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds Office. The Municipal water system lien
authority of the Village is contained in section
11-126-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 .
Each additional or subsequent water main tap on by the owners of the above
listed properties will cost one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) as set forth in
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 18-2928, 7-23-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-126-4.
9-1A-6: SEWER MAIN CONNECTION FEE:
   A.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each.
   B.   A sewer tap-on fee is not required for a sewer service replacement to
be completed upon an existing home within the Village when it is not a part of
a major renovation or a complete tear down.
   C.   A sewer tap-on fee is required for a sewer service replacement when it
is a part of new construction, a major renovation or a complete tear down of an
existing home within the Village. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-7: WATER METER FEE:
Two hundred seventy five dollars ($275.00) for each one inch (1") meter.
Seven hundred dollars ($700.00) for each one and one-half inch (11/2") meter.
(Ord. 10-2595, 10-25-2010)
9-1A-8: STREET OPENINGS FEE:
   A.   One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each street opening.
   B.   The applicant shall be responsible for full restoration of the street
and unpaved right-of-way per Village standards.
   C.   This fee is in addition to the refundable street opening bond or escrow
as contained in subsection
9-13-11A of this title concerning site management bonds. The street opening fee
is nonrefundable. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-9: DEMOLITION PERMIT FEES AND DEPOSIT:
   A.   Permit Fees Established:
      1.   Main buildings and structures: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
      2.   All other buildings and structures: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Bond: This fee is in addition to the refundable demolition bond or
escrow as contained in subsection
9-13-11A of this title concerning site management bonds. The demolition fee is
nonrefundable. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-10: SIGN PERMIT FEES:
As specified in section
9-10-19 of this title. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-11: PENALTY FOR WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT:
As specified in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-12: REINSPECTION FEE:
   A.   Fee Established: One hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-
2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
   B.   Scope Of Fee: If a reinspection of any construction, development or
other work requiring a permit, is scheduled but not ready for inspection (or
not accessible for inspection) a reinspection fee as is presented in subsection
A of this section shall be required for each occurrence. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-
2001)
9-1A-13: MOVING A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE 1 :
Four hundred dollars ($400.00) for each day the building or structure is
located on a public street. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  3-5-4C of this Code.
9-1A-14: ELEVATOR, LIFT AND DOCK INSPECTIONS:
The fee shall consist of a fifty dollar ($50.00) administrative fee plus the
actual inspection costs incurred by the Village from the contractual elevator
inspection service. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-15: FEE WAIVER:
The following fees required under this article shall be waived for all
nonprofit and eleemosynary institutions: a) building permit, b) site
development, c) water main tap on, d) street opening fee, e) demolition permit,
f) sign. The following fees and costs required by this article shall not be
waived relative to nonprofit and eleemosynary institutions and, therefore,
shall be paid by the petitioner and/or property owner: a) outside costs
incurred by the Village for building or development reviews; and b) outside
costs incurred by the Village for technical inspectional services. Written
proof of a petitioner's and/or property owner's nonprofit status or
eleemosynary character shall be required to receive a waiver of fees and shall
be filed with the Department of Code Enforcement. The chief building official
shall make the final determination regarding the waiver of fees based on the
information provided by the petitioner or property owner. The petitioner and/or
property owner may file with the Board of Trustees a written appeal of the
decision of the chief building official relative to any waiver fees decision
within thirty (30) days of the chief's decision. The Board of Trustees shall
issue final written determination relative to the waiver of fees relative to
the petitioner and/or property owner within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
appeal. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
ARTICLE A. PERMIT AND REVIEW FEES
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Plan Review Deposits And Fees
9-1A-2: Floodplain And Stormwater Management Plan Review And Inspection Fees
9-1A-3: Conditional Uses; Planned Development; Subdivision Fees
9-1A-4: Building And Site Development Permit Fees
9-1A-5: Water Main Tap On Fee
9-1A-6: Sewer Main Connection Fee
9-1A-7: Water Meter Fee
9-1A-8: Street Openings Fee
9-1A-9: Demolition Permit Fees And Deposit
9-1A-10: Sign Permit Fees
9-1A-11: Penalty For Work Without A Permit
9-1A-12: Reinspection Fee
9-1A-13: Moving A Building Or Structure
9-1A-14: Elevator, Lift And Dock Inspections
9-1A-15: Fee Waiver
9-1A-1: PLAN REVIEW DEPOSITS AND FEES:
   A.   Fee Deposit Established: A plan review fee deposit shall be paid upon
submission of building construction drawings or engineering plans in the
following amounts:
 
1. Residential construction (new homes, additions, etc.) $2,000.00
2. Commercial or institutional construction              2,500.00
3. Detached garage                                       2,000.00
 
(Ord. 17-2872, 2-27-2017)
   B.   Fee Determined; Village Administrative Fee: The plan review fee deposit
shall be paid prior to a review by the Department of Building and Development
or consulting services and before the issuance of a building, site development
or floodplain and stormwater management permit. If a permit is issued after the
plan review, the amount of the permit will be according to the provisions of
section
9-1A-4 of this article. If the plan review fees listed in subsection A of this
section are not sufficient to cover the costs of the plan review by consultants
hired by the Village (including, but not limited to, fees and costs associated
with the review, inspection and processing of the application or petition by
the Village Engineer, Village Forester, Village Landscape Architect and Land
Planner and Village Attorney or other consultants retained by the Village), the
applicant shall pay the outstanding amount prior to the issuance of a building
permit. There shall be an administrative fee charged to each applicant to
reimburse the Village for the Village staff time and resources expended
relative to the application or petition. The Village administrative fee shall
be ten percent (10%) of the total amount of Village consultant fees incurred
relative to the application or petition and shall be in addition to the Village
consultant fees.
   C.   Fee When Permit Is Not Issued; Additional Expenses: In the event that a
building, site development or stormwater management permit is not issued after
a plan review, in addition to the Village administrative fee and the actual
review fees incurred by the Village as a consequence of the Village consultants
(including, but not limited to, the Village Engineer, Village Forester, Village
Landscape Architect and Land Planner and Village Attorney or other consultants
retained by the Village) reviewing, inspecting and processing the application
and submittals, an administrative processing fee of ten percent (10%) of the
fee deposit shall be retained by the Village for processing the return of any
remaining balance of the fee deposit.
If the plan review fees listed in subsection A of this section are not
sufficient to cover the costs of the plan review by the Village Engineer or
consultants hired by the Village, and a building permit is not subsequently
issued, the applicant will be billed for the additional expense. (Ord. 04-2302,
6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
9-1A-2: FLOODPLAIN AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN REVIEW AND INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Fee Established: The floodplain and stormwater management plan review
and inspection fee shall be paid prior to a review by the Department of
Building and Development or consulting services and before the issuance of a
stormwater management permit. No permit will be issued until the total
floodplain and stormwater management plan review and inspection fees due are
paid. There shall be an administrative fee charged to each applicant to
reimburse the Village for the Village staff time and resources expended
relative to the application or petition. The Village administrative fee shall
be ten percent (10%) of the total amount of the Village consultant fees
incurred relative to the application or petition and shall be in addition to
the Village consultant fees. A floodplain and stormwater management plan review
and inspection fee shall be paid upon submission of building construction
drawings or engineering plans in the following amounts:
 
1. Residential construction (new homes, additions, etc.) $ 300.00
2. Commercial or institutional construction              1,000.00
3. Detached garage                                       300.00
 
      4.   Conditional use, planned development and subdivision: The fee for
these developments is established by article B of this chapter and subsection
10-10-17C of this Code plus the Village shall receive an administrative fee of
ten percent (10%) of the total amount of Village consultant fees incurred
relative to the application or petition.
   B.   Fee When Permit Is Not Issued; Additional Expenses: In the event that a
floodplain and stormwater management permit is not issued after a plan review,
in addition to the Village administrative fee and the actual review and
inspection fees incurred by the Village as a consequence of the Village
consultants (including, but not limited to, the Village Engineer, Village
Forester, Village Landscape Architect and Land Planner and Village Attorney or
other consultants retained by the Village) reviewing, inspecting and processing
the application and submittals, an administrative processing fee of ten percent
(10%) of the fee deposit shall be retained by the Village for processing the
return of any remaining balance of the fee deposit.
If the floodplain and stormwater management plan review and inspection fees
listed in subsection A of this section are not sufficient to cover the costs of
the plan review and inspections by the Village Engineer or other consultants
hired by the Village (including, but not limited to, the Village Forester,
Village Landscape Architect and Land Planner and Village Attorney) and a
floodplain and stormwater management permit is not subsequently issued, the
applicant will be billed for the additional expense. (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004,
eff. 7-1-2004)
9-1A-3: CONDITIONAL USES; PLANNED DEVELOPMENT; SUBDIVISION FEES:
   A.   Plan Review Fees: Upon submission by a developer of a conditional use,
planned development or a subdivision, which shall require review by the Village
Engineer or other consultants, the developer shall pay at the time of
submission the filing fee as specified for a conditional use, planned
development or subdivision or as specified in article B of this chapter and
subsection
10-10-17C of the development control ordinance.
   B.   Building Permit Fees: Building permit fees for conditional uses and
planned developments shall be based upon the building permit fee schedule set
forth in section
9-1A-4 of this article. (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
9-1A-4: BUILDING AND SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Building Construction Permit Fees: Building permit fees for each new
building or structure or alterations/additions to existing buildings or
structures shall be based on the following:
1.75 percent of construction costs up to $1,000,000.00
1.0 percent of construction costs for the next $4,000,000.00
0.75 percent of construction costs for all costs above $5,000,000.00
All construction cost estimates will be prepared by the applicant and verified
by the Department of Building and Development. If any conflict occurs, the
amount verified by the Department of Building and Development will be utilized
to determine the permit fee.
   B.   Site Development Permit And Inspection Fees: Site development permit
and inspection fees, which are in addition to building permit fees for all
types of development, including single or multiple lot developments,
subdivisions, planned developments and conditional uses, shall be as follows:
 
1. Residential lots                    $200.00 per lot
2. Commercial lots                     $200.00 per lot
3. Subdivisions, planned developments  $2,000.00 plus $500.00 per acre or part
and conditional uses                    thereof
 
(Ord. 17-2872, 2-27-2017)
There shall be an initial site development inspection for all types of
development and as many construction inspections as deemed necessary by the
Department of Building and Development for all types of buildings or
structures. There shall be an administrative fee charged to each applicant to
reimburse the Village for the Village staff time and resources expended
relative to the application or petition. The Village administrative fee shall
be ten percent (10%) of the total amount of Village consultant fees incurred
relative to the application or petition and shall be in addition to the Village
consultant fees. If the site development permit and inspection fee is not
sufficient to cover the costs of the site development and construction
inspections conducted by the Department of Building and Development or the
Village Engineer or other consultants (including, but not limited to, the
Village Forester, Village Landscape Architect and Land Planner and Village
Attorney) hired by the Village, the applicant will be billed for the additional
expense. (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
   C.   Minimum Building Permit Fee: The minimum building permit fee shall be
fifty dollars ($50.00).
   D.   Building Permits Required: Building permits are required for the
following types of construction:
General:
 Any alteration to a structure
 Any new addition to an existing building
 Any new building
 Scaffolding on public property
 Signs
 Structural repairs due to fire or deterioration
 Tents/trailers
Site Work:
 Awnings and canopies
 Demolition
 Driveway
 Driveway aprons
 Lawn sprinkler systems
 Parking lot, either repaving or new lots
 Patios
 Ramps (for wheelchairs, etc.)
 Sheds
 Sidewalks on private property
 Street openings
 Swimming pools
Concrete Work:
 Courts: tennis, shuffleboard, etc.
 Driveways
 Footings, foundation walls, walls, slabs, etc.
 Piers for decks
 Protection from moisture
Masonry:
 Chimneys
 Fireplaces and hearth (new)
 Grouted masonry
 Hollow unit masonry
 New walls
 Patios
Equipment:
 Central air conditioning
 Clean outs
 Clothes dryer if piping or electric wiring changes
 Drain tile, exterior
 Ductwork
 Elevators
 Fuel tanks and/or piping
 Jacuzzi
 Sewer service changes
 Spas
 Sump or ejector pumps
 Traps
 Water service changes
Electrical:
 Breakers, circuits or lights, additional or new
 Burglar and fire alarm systems
 Drop location change
 Exterior lighting and receptacles
 Outlets, additional
 Panel change
 Satellite dishes and wireless communication devices (except those preempted
  from regulation by federal communications commission)
 Service, new or upgrade
 Smoke detectors directly wired, new
 Underground electric service
Metals:
 Flues
 Metal chimney (new)
 Prefabricated fireplaces
 Structural steel beams
Carpentry:
 Beam and column supports (new)
 Carport
 Decks
 Doors (change in size or location)
 Fences
 Garages
 Headers over doors and windows (new)
 Insulation
 Joists
 Lintels (new)
 Partitions (new)
 Porches
 Prefabricated sheds
 Rafters (new or replacement)
 Shingles
 Skylights
 Stairways
 Windows (changing in size or type)
Roofs:
 New roof
 Repairs of existing roof
Finishes:
 Ceiling (new)
 Gypsum walls (new)
 Plaster (new)
 Roofs (new and repair)
 Siding
 Wallboard if over 100 square feet
 
(Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
   E.   Individual Building Permits Not Required For A Single Lot Or Building
Construction Project: Separate permit(s) for items listed in subsection D of
this section is/are not required for new buildings or structures or additions
to buildings or structures where such construction costs are included in the
overall permit fee pursuant to subsection A of this section. (Ord. 04-2302, 6-
28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
9-1A-5: WATER MAIN TAP ON FEE:
   A.   General Tap On Fee: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each; except
for the properties listed under subsections B and C of this section.
   B.   Tap On Fee For Certain 45th Street Properties: The following properties
shall pay a one-time tap on fee as required:
 
Property        PIN           Deferred
                              Tap On Fee
302 45th Street 18-05-308-023 $6,855.00
303 45th Street 18-05-314-030 6,855.00
304 45th Street 18-05-308-030 6,855.00
319 45th Street 18-05-314-025 6,855.00
 
After payment of the above one-time tap on fee of six thousand eight hundred
fifty five dollars ($6,855.00), each additional or subsequent water main tap on
by the owners of the above listed properties will cost one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
   C.   Reimbursement Fee For Certain Garden Avenue Properties: In accordance
with this subsection, the owners of following properties shall be required to
pay a deferred tap on fee ("reimbursement fee"), pursuant to one of the below
payment options to be selected by each property owner:
 
                                      Estimated Deferred
Property           PIN                Water Main
                                      Tap On Fee
3903 Garden Avenue 18-06-105-002-0000 "Not to exceed" amount equal to $6,849.17
3909 Garden Avenue 18-06-105-004-0000 "Not to exceed" amount equal to $6,849.17
3911 Garden Avenue 18-06-105-005-0000 "Not to exceed" amount equal to $6,849.17
 
The payment options available to the owners of the above properties (or any
successor owner of record, occupant, developer, builder, lessee/licensee or
agent) are as follows:
      1.   The "payment-in-full option" involves payment in full of the final
reimbursement fee, without any accrued interest due within thirty (30) calendar
days of the Village's written notice of the project completion and final
assessed reimbursement fee. The failure of a property owner to make a timely
payment in full shall automatically default the property owner into the
building permit application payment or sale/closing option.
      2.   The "36 month payment plan option" allows the reimbursement fee to
be paid within a thirty six (36) month period, with the payment of accrued
simple interest at three percent (3.0%) per annum. Interest will start to
accrue thirty (30) calendar days after the date of the Village's written notice
of the project completion and final assessed reimbursement fee. The first
monthly payment will be due on the first day of the month following the date of
the Village's written notice of the project completion and final assessed
reimbursement fee and each subsequent monthly payment is due on the first day
of each subsequent month. The Village will provide to the owner a thirty six
(36) month principal and interest payment schedule. There shall be no pre-
payment penalty, and accrued interest shall be prorated on a 1/365th day basis,
based on the outstanding balance due, through the date of final payment in
full.
      3.   The "building permit application payment or sale/closing option"
requires the payment of the final assessed reimbursement fee at the time that
the property owner (or any successor owner of record, occupant, developer,
builder, lessee/licensee or agent) applies for a building permit to redevelop
with new construction, such as a replacement of the principal structure as a
result of a tear-down development, or a major renovation or addition is
proposed for the principal structure or the construction of a garage or as
otherwise provided in this section or at the closing in the event the property
owner sells the property. The property owner (or any successor owner of record,
occupant, developer, builder, lessee/licensee or agent) shall pay the final
assessed reimbursement fee and shall also pay the water meter fee, the sewer
and water tap-on fees and the user fees relating to sewer and water
installations and services for those charges generally applicable in the
Village for similar installations or services at the time that the fees or
charges are due.
The property owners (or any successor owner of record, occupant, developer,
builder, lessee/licensee or agent) shall pay the final assessed reimbursement
fee, plus interest if applicable, and all of the other required fees, including
the water meter fee, except that no permit fees or water tap on fee shall be
charged as part of the payment of the reimbursement fee for the Rose/Garden/
39th Street Service Line Improvements Project. The reimbursement fee is a "not
to exceed" fee based on the final project costs and shall be charged to each
property owner (if the final project costs are equal to or above the "not to
exceed" reimbursement fee) or reduced to match the actual project costs
incurred, if the actual project costs are less than the reimbursement fee. As
part of the public benefit of this project, the Village agrees to waive the
permit fee and water tap on fee required to be paid by each property owner and
agrees to pay any additional project costs that exceed the reimbursement
amount. If necessary, the Village shall amend this section to reflect the
actual, final project costs and the final reimbursement fee. For any other
additional or future sewer and water service line connections, the sewer and
water tap on fees and the user fees relating to sewer and water installations
and services shall be those charges generally applicable in the Village for
similar installations or services at the time that the fees or charges are due.
The estimated Total Water Main and Service Line Improvements Project costs are
one hundred ninety one thousand two hundred sixty seven dollars fifty cents
($191,267.50), which includes the Village's payment for certain improvements to
a water main crossing at Flagg Creek (estimated to be $129,952.50), the
installation of water service line tap-on connections and water service lines
extending from the water mains in the front yard public rights-of-way to the
buffalo boxes for all of the project properties (estimated to be $39,195.00)
and the abandonment in place of the rear yard water mains (estimated to be
$22,120.00). After the project is completed, if necessary, this section will be
amended to state the final reimbursement fee.
After full payment of the reimbursement fee, the Village will file a release of
lien and confirmation of payment in full against title to each subject property
with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds Office. The Municipal water system lien
authority of the Village is contained in section
11-126-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 .
Each additional or subsequent water main tap on by the owners of the above
listed properties will cost one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) as set forth in
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 18-2928, 7-23-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-126-4.
9-1A-6: SEWER MAIN CONNECTION FEE:
   A.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each.
   B.   A sewer tap-on fee is not required for a sewer service replacement to
be completed upon an existing home within the Village when it is not a part of
a major renovation or a complete tear down.
   C.   A sewer tap-on fee is required for a sewer service replacement when it
is a part of new construction, a major renovation or a complete tear down of an
existing home within the Village. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-7: WATER METER FEE:
Two hundred seventy five dollars ($275.00) for each one inch (1") meter.
Seven hundred dollars ($700.00) for each one and one-half inch (11/2") meter.
(Ord. 10-2595, 10-25-2010)
9-1A-8: STREET OPENINGS FEE:
   A.   One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each street opening.
   B.   The applicant shall be responsible for full restoration of the street
and unpaved right-of-way per Village standards.
   C.   This fee is in addition to the refundable street opening bond or escrow
as contained in subsection
9-13-11A of this title concerning site management bonds. The street opening fee
is nonrefundable. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-9: DEMOLITION PERMIT FEES AND DEPOSIT:
   A.   Permit Fees Established:
      1.   Main buildings and structures: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
      2.   All other buildings and structures: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Bond: This fee is in addition to the refundable demolition bond or
escrow as contained in subsection
9-13-11A of this title concerning site management bonds. The demolition fee is
nonrefundable. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-10: SIGN PERMIT FEES:
As specified in section
9-10-19 of this title. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-11: PENALTY FOR WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT:
As specified in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-12: REINSPECTION FEE:
   A.   Fee Established: One hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-
2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
   B.   Scope Of Fee: If a reinspection of any construction, development or
other work requiring a permit, is scheduled but not ready for inspection (or
not accessible for inspection) a reinspection fee as is presented in subsection
A of this section shall be required for each occurrence. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-
2001)
9-1A-13: MOVING A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE 1 :
Four hundred dollars ($400.00) for each day the building or structure is
located on a public street. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  3-5-4C of this Code.
9-1A-14: ELEVATOR, LIFT AND DOCK INSPECTIONS:
The fee shall consist of a fifty dollar ($50.00) administrative fee plus the
actual inspection costs incurred by the Village from the contractual elevator
inspection service. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
9-1A-15: FEE WAIVER:
The following fees required under this article shall be waived for all
nonprofit and eleemosynary institutions: a) building permit, b) site
development, c) water main tap on, d) street opening fee, e) demolition permit,
f) sign. The following fees and costs required by this article shall not be
waived relative to nonprofit and eleemosynary institutions and, therefore,
shall be paid by the petitioner and/or property owner: a) outside costs
incurred by the Village for building or development reviews; and b) outside
costs incurred by the Village for technical inspectional services. Written
proof of a petitioner's and/or property owner's nonprofit status or
eleemosynary character shall be required to receive a waiver of fees and shall
be filed with the Department of Code Enforcement. The chief building official
shall make the final determination regarding the waiver of fees based on the
information provided by the petitioner or property owner. The petitioner and/or
property owner may file with the Board of Trustees a written appeal of the
decision of the chief building official relative to any waiver fees decision
within thirty (30) days of the chief's decision. The Board of Trustees shall
issue final written determination relative to the waiver of fees relative to
the petitioner and/or property owner within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
appeal. (Ord. 01-2176, 11-26-2001)
ARTICLE B. ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCESS FILING FEES
SECTION:
9-1B-1: Filing Fees Required
9-1B-2: Obligation Of Applicant For Payment Of Fees
9-1B-3: Deposit For Payment Of Fees
9-1B-4: Agreement To Pay Village Fees In Full
9-1B-5: Additional Deposit Required
9-1B-6: Refunds And Additional Payments
9-1B-1: FILING FEES REQUIRED:
At the time of filing with the village of any application or petition for a
variation, conditional uses, amendment, subdivision, planned unit development,
zoning compliance review or occupancy permit, the applicant shall deposit with
the village an estimate, as set forth below, of professional consultant fees
and expenses (including, but not limited to, fees and costs associated with the
review, inspection and processing of the application or petition by the village
engineer, village forester, village landscape architect and land planner and
village attorney or other consultants retained by the village) that the village
will incur in reviewing and processing the application or petition, including
preparing any documents, reports or other materials relative to the application
or petition. Such an initial deposit shall be called a filing fee; such a fee
shall be paid by the applicant to the village and held and dispersed in
accordance with this article. There shall be an administrative fee charged to
each applicant to reimburse the village for the village staff time and
resources expended relative to the application or petition. The village
administrative fee shall be ten percent (10%) of the total amount of village
consultant fees incurred relative to the application or petition and shall be
in addition to the village consultant fees. (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-
2004)
9-1B-2: OBLIGATION OF APPLICANT FOR PAYMENT OF FEES:
By filing the application or petition for the village's review, the applicant
is acknowledging his obligation and agreeing to pay all village administrative
fees, professional consulting fees (including, but not limited to, fees and
costs associated with the review, inspection and processing of the application
or petition by the village engineer, village forester, village landscape
architect and land planner and village attorney or other consultants retained
by the village) and public hearing expenses, including court reporter fees,
incurred by the village in reviewing, processing and acting upon such
application. The deposit for those fees and expenses as hereinafter set forth
is intended to ensure to the village that adequate funds are available to the
village to pay those fees and expenses. The initial filing fee deposit is based
upon an estimate of what those fees and expenses may be and by making the
deposit the applicant is not relieved of the obligation to pay the total fees
and expenses in full, if those fees and expenses exceed the initial deposit
amount. There shall be an administrative fee charged to each applicant to
reimburse the village for the village staff time and resources expended
relative to the application or petition. The village administrative fee shall
be ten percent (10%) of the total amount of village consultant fees incurred
relative to the application or petition and shall be in addition to the village
consultant fees. (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
9-1B-3: DEPOSIT FOR PAYMENT OF FEES:
At the time an application for any of the following zoning or subdivision
changes are submitted to the village, the following deposit fees will be
charged:
   A.   Variations:
      1.   Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first variation (which
amount includes cost of transcript). (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
      2.   Three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for each subsequent variation
in the same petition (which amount includes cost of transcript). (Ord. 94-1892,
3-28-1994)
      3.   The minimum fee to be paid to the village out of escrow for
administrative costs will be one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 99-2092, 9-
27-1999)
   B.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per petition for conditional uses
containing new or reconstructed structures or buildings.
      2.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per petition for conditional uses
that do not contain any new or reconstructed structures.
   C.   Amendments:
      1.   Map amendments: Three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per petition.
      2.   Text amendments: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per petition.
   D.   Minor Subdivisions:
      1.   For all subdivision plats of one acre or any fraction thereof: Three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
   E.   Major Subdivisions:
      1.   For all subdivision plats of over one acre: Three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) plus one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each acre or portion
thereof of gross site area.
   F.   Planned Unit Developments:
      1.   Three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) plus one thousand two hundred
dollars ($1,200.00) per acre or portion thereof of gross site area.
   G.   Zoning Compliance Review:
      1.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) per review. (Ord. 94-1892, 3-28-1994)
   H.   Occupancy Permits:
      1.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per single-family attached/detached
unit.
      2.   Fifteen dollars ($15.00) per apartment unit.
      3.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per commercial/office building and per
tenant/occupancy space. (Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
9-1B-4: AGREEMENT TO PAY VILLAGE FEES IN FULL:
Before any application for which a deposit fee is required by this article is
accepted by the village or acted upon, the petitioner will be required to
acknowledge in writing the petitioner's responsibility to pay all fees pursuant
to the provisions contained within this article. Said form of acknowledgment to
be signed by the applicant is attached to ordinance 94-1892 and is referenced
as appendix A. (Ord. 94-1892, 3-28-1994)
9-1B-5: ADDITIONAL DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
If during the course of the review of an application the village manager
determines that the deposit fees paid by the applicant to the village will be
insufficient to reimburse the village for its consultants and expenses, and if
the village provides the applicant with an estimate in writing of the
additional consultant fees that will be incurred by the village, based upon
estimates from the consultants themselves, which shall be made available to the
applicant, it is the obligation of the applicant to pay to the village an
additional deposit to cover the cost of those anticipated fees plus an
additional administrative fee in the amount of ten percent (10%) of those
anticipated consultant fees. The village reserves the right to delay any
further action on the application until this additional deposit is paid. This
additional deposit is based upon an estimate of what those additional fees may
be and by making the additional deposit, the applicant is not relieved of his
obligation to pay the additional fees in full if in fact they exceed that
estimate and additional administrative fee. The provisions of section
9-1B-6 of this article with respect to a refund of any excess deposit shall
then apply at the time of final action or withdrawal as described in said
section
9-1B-6 of this article. If the additional payment is also exhausted prior to
final action or withdrawal, then an additional deposit shall again be required
in accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 94-1892, 3-28-1994)
9-1B-6: REFUNDS AND ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS:
The foregoing fee schedule plus any additional deposits made by the applicant
is based upon an estimate of the costs and fees that will be incurred by the
village in reviewing and acting upon the applications described. Accordingly,
at the time of final action by the corporate authorities or the written request
by an applicant that further action on the application terminate, an
itemization of costs for consultants and an administrative fee in the amount of
ten percent (10%) of the consultant fees, and the administrative charge for a
variation pursuant to subsection 9-1B-3A of this article, shall be sent to the
petitioner either indicating payment in full, providing a refund to the
applicant or billing the applicant an additional amount to be paid to the
village by the applicant before final action on the application is taken. The
payment for zoning, subdivision or annexation review under this article shall
only include those services necessary for the final action on request by the
corporate authorities. All inspection, review and other fees indicated by other
ordinances shall remain applicable. (Ord. 99-2092, 9-27-1999)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Adoption Of International Residential Code
9-2-2: Amendments To International Residential Code
9-2-3: Adoption Of Building Code
9-2-4: Amendments To Building Code
9-2-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The Village has adopted by ordinance and incorporated by reference into this
chapter as one part of the Building Code of the Village of Western Springs,
Cook County, Illinois, the Code entitled International Residential Code, 2006
edition, as published by the International Code Council (ICC), except as
amended in this chapter or by the publisher. Three (3) copies of the
International Residential Code, 2006 edition, and all of its regulations are on
file in the Office of the Village Clerk and are kept available for public use,
inspection and examination in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
1-3-2. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014; amd. Ord. 17-2872, 2-27-2017)
9-2-2: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The following sections of the international residential code, 2006 edition, are
amended as follows:
Section 101.1 Title: Insert "the village of Western Springs" in the first line.
Section 112.3.1 Fee Schedule: Insert:
"Fees shall be paid in accordance with title 9 (Building Regulations), chapter
1 (Fee Schedules) of the municipal code of Western Springs, as revised from
time to time."
Section 116.4 Violation Penalties: Replace text with:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
violation for each day that the violation continues, and each day that the
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense subject to a separate
penalty. Such a fine shall be in addition to any other fee or charge authorized
pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
Section 117.2 Unlawful Continuance: Insert after the words "shall be liable",
"."
Section 121.0 Means Of Appeal is deleted in its entirety.
(Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
Section R310 Emergency Escape And Rescue Openings
R310.1 Emergency escape and rescue required.
Basements, habitable attics and every sleeping room shall have at least one
operable emergency escape and rescue opening. Such opening shall open directly
into a public street, public alley, yard or court. Where basements contain one
or more sleeping rooms, emergency egress and rescue openings shall be required
in each sleeping room, but shall not be required in adjoining areas of the
basement. Where emergency escape and rescue openings are provided, they shall
have a sill height of not more than 44 inches (1118 mm) above the floor. Where
a door opening having a threshold below the adjacent ground elevation serves as
an emergency escape and rescue opening and is provided with a bulkhead
enclosure, the bulkhead enclosure shall comply with Section R310.3. The net
clear opening dimensions required by this section shall be obtained by the
normal operation of the emergency escape and rescue opening from the inside.
Emergency escape and rescue openings with a finished sill height below the
adjacent ground elevation shall be provided with a window well in accordance
with Section R310.2. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall open directly
into a public way, or to a yard or court that opens to a public way.
(Ord. 17-2872, 2-27-2017)
Section 403.0 High-Rise Buildings, subsection 403.1 should read as follows:
403.1 Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to all
buildings having occupied floors located more than 50 feet (15240 mm) above the
lowest level of fire department vehicle access.
Delete the following regulations:
Table R302.1 (1) exterior walls and section R302.1.
Adoption of the following regulations or adoption of such regulations by
reference in their entirety:
(a) Appendix P "Fire Sprinkler System" adopted by reference in its entirety as
set forth in the international residential code, 2006 edition.
(b) Attached garages shall be protected by an approved automatic fire sprinkler
system per section AP102, international residential code.
(c) Minimum footings: one story - 10" x 20", two story - 12" x 24". Trench
footings are prohibited with the exception of porches, stoops, and exterior
work as approved by the community development department.
(d) Foundation walls - all walls 10" minimum thickness with #5 rebars
continuous at the top and bottom of walls.
(e) Finish floor - 11/4" (for additions only).
(f) 5/8" fire rated gypsum wallboard or rock lath and plaster (for additions
only).
(g) Attic access may not be located in a closet (including walk-in closets).
Minimum access is 22" x 30".
(h) Floor trusses and prefabricated wood I-joists must be protected by 5/8"
gypsum board, a fire rated drop ceiling, or an automatic sprinkler system. If
installed above a crawl space, provide a smoke detector and protected opening
to the crawl space (for additions only).
(i) Enclosed accessible space under stairs must have walls and soffits
protected on the enclosed side with 5/8" gypsum board.
(j) Hot and cold air returns/supplies must be in sheet metal.
(k) Furnace area ceiling must be protected by 100 square feet of 5/8" fire-
rated gypsum wallboard or provide a sprinkler head (for additions only).
(l) Furnace rooms located in habitable areas of living units must be enclosed
with 5/8" gypsum board and a solid, one-hour, fire-rated, self-closing door.
Provide combustion air directly from outside (for additions only).
(m) Door between attached garage and dwelling unit(s) to be self-closing and
one-hour fire rated.
(n) 5/8" fire-rated gypsum board required for walls and ceilings of attached
garages.
(o) Provide a 6" gas curb between attached garage and residence (or construct
garage floor 6" lower than adjoining floor).
(p) Factory built or masonry fireplaces must be equipped with an exterior air
supply.
(q) Plumbing - PVC prohibited for use in water supply; allowed for drain waste
and venting.
(r) Water service - minimum 1" copper pipe (but not less than the size required
based upon the water supply fixture load per section 890, appendix A, table N,
Illinois plumbing code) from the water main to the structure is required for
new construction or major remodeling. Old service must be disconnected.
(s) Overhead plumbing required.
(t) Two sump pumps required for new construction (sump pump and ejector pump).
(u) Install conduit chase for installation of remote reader for water service.
(v) All electrical must be in conduit with the exception of low voltage wiring.
(w) Ground fault circuit interrupter protection required for all lighting over
all tubs and showers.
(x) Provide electrical jumper cable around water meter and between hot, cold,
and gas metallic pipes serving water heater.
(y) Smoke and carbon monoxide detectors must be 110 volt with a battery back-
up.
(z) Fireplace combustion air duct material shall be rigid or semi-rigid metal,
no flexible foil duct material permitted.
(Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
9-2-3: ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE:
The Village has adopted by ordinance and incorporated by reference into this
chapter as one part of the Building Code of the Village of Western Springs,
Cook County, Illinois, the code entitled International Building Code, 2006
edition, as published by the International Code Council (ICC), except as
amended in this chapter or by the publisher. Three (3) copies of the
International Building Code, 2006 edition, and all of its regulations are on
file in the Office of the Village Clerk and are kept available for public use,
inspection and examination in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
1-3-2. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
9-2-4: AMENDMENTS TO BUILDING CODE:
The following sections of the International Building Code, 2006 edition, are
amended as follows:
Section 101.1 - insert the "village of Western Springs" for "name of
jurisdiction".
Section 108.2 - insert "Fees shall be paid in accordance with title 9 (Building
Regulations), chapter 1 (Fee Schedules) of the municipal code of Western
Springs, as revised from time to time."
Section 113.4 - revise to read as follows:
Violation; Fines And Penalties: Any person who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation for each day that the violation continues,
and each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense
subject to a separate penalty. Such a fine shall be in addition to any other
fee or charge authorized pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
Installation Of Fire Alarm, Fire Sprinkler And Knox Box Requirements are as
follows:
Existing Structures:
All use groups A, B, E, H, I, M, S, F, U and R shall be equipped throughout
with either an automatic fire detection system or an automatic fire suppression
system, including manual pull stations, (the building owner's choice) in
compliance with the most current NFPA codes. Note: multi-family dwellings are
defined by three (3) or more units.
Based on the size of the building/occupancy, buildings with automatic fire
detection systems or automatic fire suppression systems may be required to
provide an annunciator panel(s) as determined by the fire code safety inspector
of the village or his/her designee. The purpose of this annunciator panel is to
be able to provide the location of the alarm activation upon arrival of the
first responders. The location of annunciator panel(s) shall be required at or
near the primary entrance or in such other locations as directed by the fire
code safety inspector of the village.
The systems (sprinkler and/or detection) will be required to be connected
directly into an alarm monitoring agency or dispatch center.
Installation Compliance Period For Existing Structures: There will be a three
(3) year window for compliance with the above sections, with the three (3) year
compliance period commencing on January 1, 2015 and ending on January 1, 2018.
Notice Of Compliance With Installation Of Fire Alarm, Fire Sprinkler And Knox
Box Requirements For Existing Structures: After its adoption by the village,
the fire chief, or his/her designee, shall send via first class United States
mail a copy of this ordinance to each owner (as shown in the village's business
records) of all existing buildings and structures classified in use groups A,
B, E, H, I, M, S, F, U and R that are subject to the above installation
compliance period for existing structures regulations. The village shall not be
under any duty to send such notice to any subsequent owner(s) of existing
structures as they will be obligated to comply with the current code
regulations that exist at the time they purchase, lease or occupy the existing
structures.
Automatic Fire Suppression System Installation Requirements For New
Construction:
An automatic fire suppression system, including a manual fire alarm systempull
stations, shall be installed in use groups A, B, E, H, I, M, S, F, U and R in
compliance with the most current applicable NFPA code.
Additions/Alterations: An automatic fire suppression system, including a manual
fire alarm systempull stations, shall be installed in use groups A, B, E, H, I,
M, S, F and U (commercial, institutional, or mixed use commercial/residential)
in compliance with the most current applicable NFPA code for the following:
additions and alterations exceeding 2,500 s.f. in gross floor area, additions
in buildings resulting in an overall gross area of 2,500 s.f. or greater;
alterations to existing buildings (exceeding a gross floor area of 2,500 s.f.).
Separation and fire walls shall not be used to reduce the gross square footage
in this Section 113.4 so that sprinkler protection is not required.
Knox Box (Rapid Entry System):
All buildings that are equipped with an approved or required fire alarm system
per this chapter and/or buildings equipped with an approved automatic sprinkler
system and are interconnected to an alarm monitoring agency shall have an
approved key box system.
The location of said key box shall be approved by the department.
The key box shall contain keys to gain necessary access to the building.
Fire Alarm:
System Out Of Service: No automatic fire detection or fire suppression systems
shall be out of service for more than twelve (12) hours for additions,
alterations, maintenance or repairs without the advance written approval of the
Western Springs fire department. When an automatic fire detection or fire
suppression system is out of service for any reason, notice thereof shall be
given immediately to the Western Springs fire department. In addition, the
building owner or designated representative, prior to taking any such system
out of service for more than twelve (12) hours, shall notify all tenants and
occupants of any building affected by the system taken out of service that no
automatic fire detection or fire suppression system is in operation and for
what time period that will be the case. The building owner or designated
representative shall notify the Western Springs fire department.
False Alarm Charge: A charge of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per call or
response shall be made to the property owner or automatic fire alarm equipment
owner, installed and maintained by others, which initiates a response by the
Western Springs fire department, for a false alarm being given or transmitted
by these facilities to the Western Springs fire department.
False Alarm; Payment Time Period: A false alarm charge shall be for the second
false alarm transmitted and responded to in any capacity by the Western Springs
fire department during any ninety (90) consecutive calendar day period, whether
caused by malfunctioning, or intentionally or negligently misused or abused
facilities or equipment, or inadequately maintained, and which results in a
fire suppression and/or rescue apparatus and equipment being unnecessarily
called to the property in response thereto. All false alarm charges shall be
paid to the village within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of an invoice
for such charges.
(Ord. 17-2903, 10-23-2017)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Code Adopted
9-3-2: Amendments To Code
9-3-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The Village has adopted by ordinance and incorporated by reference into this
chapter as the Electrical Code of the Village of Western Springs, Cook County,
Illinois, the Code entitled National Electrical Code, 2005 edition (NFPA 70),
as published by the National Fire Protection Association, except as amended in
this chapter or by the publisher. Three (3) copies of the National Electrical
Code, 2005 edition (NFPA 70), and all of its regulations are on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk and are kept available for public use, inspection
and examination in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2. (Ord.
14-2767, 10-27-2014)
9-3-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the national electrical code, 2005 edition (NFPA 70),
are amended as follows:
Any reference in said code to the "name of jurisdiction" shall mean the village
of Western Springs.
Lighting luminaries mounted eight feet (8'0") or less above the finished floor,
or any other location creating a potential hazard, are not permitted to have
exposed bulbs and shall be provided an appropriate lens or cover. Any reference
in said code to "name of state" shall mean the state of Illinois.
Violation; Fines And Penalties: Any person who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation for each day that the violation continues,
and each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense
subject to a separate penalty. Such a fine shall be in addition to any other
fee or charge authorized pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
Article 100 Definitions shall be amended to include the following:
Approved: Acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction. Electrical
equipment, appliances and devices shall conform with the minimum standards
applicable thereto contained in the regulations of this code. It shall be
mandatory that all equipment, devices and appliances covered by the provisions
of this code shall be tested and approved by a standard testing laboratory, of
nationally accepted stature, which performs services equal to or greater than
those performed by the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. In those instances where
it is impossible to receive such approval, the authority having jurisdiction
shall make the determination of acceptability.
All underground wiring in buildings, including wiring in sub-grade floors,
shall be installed in rigid metal conduit. Rigid nonmetallic conduit may be
used underground outside of buildings.
All nonconforming electrical installations or matters discovered or revealed
during remodeling, renovation, or other alteration projects, shall be corrected
in accordance with this code. Existing electrical systems, materials, devices
and so forth, which are deemed conforming and which will provide safe electric
service, may remain in place.
All abandoned wiring, conductors, conduit systems, raceways, junction boxes,
electrical devices, electrical materials, equipment, and the like, shall be
completely removed prior to rough electrical inspection.
For final inspection purposes, all light fixtures shall have at least one (1)
bulb or lamp in each fixture.
(Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
Article 210 Branch Circuits
210.50(D) Other Outlets
In dwelling occupancies, dishwashers, garbage disposals and similar appliances
which do not have accessible corded plugs to electric receptacles shall be
provided a snap switch service disconnect (or an approved equal). Disconnect
shall be located within the base cabinet, accessible and properly labeled for
the appliance or equipment which power is controlled by that disconnect and
corresponding panel circuit.
(Ord. 17-2872, 2-27-2017)
Article 230-43 Wiring Methods For 600 Volts, Nominal, Or Less, is hereby
deleted and replaced with the following:
Service-entrance conductors shall be installed in accordance with the
applicable requirements of this code covering the type of wiring method used
and shall be limited to the following methods:
            (1)   rigid metal conduit
            (2)   intermediate metal conduit
            (3)   busways
Article 334 Nonmetallic-Sheathed Cable is hereby deleted.
Article 341 is added to read as follows:
The following requirements shall be added as article 341: In buildings or
structures, all conductors shall be encased in groundable metallic raceways.
Rigid nonmetallic raceways may be used only at exterior underground feeders or
branch circuits with separate grounding conductor.
Article 348 Flexible Metal Conduit Uses Permitted, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
The use of flexible metal conduit shall be limited to a maximum length of six
feet (6') unless approved by the director of community development or his
designee.
Article 354 Preassembled Cable In Nonmetallic Conduit is hereby deleted.
Article 362 Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing, is hereby deleted.
(Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
9-4-2: Amendments To Code
9-4-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
The village has adopted by ordinance and incorporated by reference into this
chapter as the plumbing code of the village of Western Springs, Cook County,
Illinois, the code entitled Illinois state plumbing code, 2014 edition, as
published by the Illinois department of health, except as amended in this
chapter or by the publisher. Three (3) copies of the Illinois state plumbing
code, 2014 edition, and all of its regulations are on file in the office of the
village clerk and are kept available for public use, inspection and examination
in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-
2014)
9-4-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the Illinois state plumbing code, 2014 edition, are
amended as follows:
Violation; Fines And Penalties: Any person who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation for each day that the violation continues,
and each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense
subject to a separate penalty. Such a fine shall be in addition to any other
fee or charge authorized pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 5
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Adoption Of Mechanical Code
9-5-2: Amendments To Code
9-5-1: ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE:
The village has adopted by ordinance and incorporated by reference into this
chapter as the mechanical code of the village of Western Springs, Cook County,
Illinois, the code entitled the international mechanical code, 2006 edition, as
published by the International Code Council (ICC), except as amended in this
chapter or by the publisher. Three (3) copies of the international mechanical
code, 2006 edition, and all of its regulations are on file in the office of the
village clerk and are kept available for public use, inspection and examination
in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-
2014)
9-5-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the international mechanical code, 2006 edition, are
amended as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. Insert "the village of Western Springs" in the second line
of this section.
Any reference in said code to the "name of jurisdiction" shall mean the village
of Western Springs.
Any reference in said code to "name of state" shall mean the state of Illinois.
Violation; Fines And Penalties: Any person who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation for each day that the violation continues,
and each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense
subject to a separate penalty. Such a fine shall be in addition to any other
fee or charge authorized pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
Section 106 shall be amended to read as follows:
Section 106.2 Permits Not Required. Permits shall not be required for the
following:
      1.   Any portable heating device;
      2.   Any portable ventilation device;
      3.   Any portable ventilation equipment;
      4.   Any steam, hot water or chilled water piping within any heating or
cooling equipment regulated by this code;
      5.   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of
equipment or make such equipment unsafe;
      6.   Any portable evaporative cooler; and
      7.   Any self contained refrigeration containing 10 pounds or less
refrigerant, or actuated by motors of 1 horsepower or less.
Section 109 Means Of Appeal shall be deleted in its entirety.
Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for work to be done in violation of the provisions of this
code or other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
Section 602 Plenums, subsection 602.2 is deleted and replaced with the
following:
602.2 Construction. Plenum enclosures shall be constructed of materials
permitted for the type of construction classification of the building. In
residential applications all plenums shall be constructed of sheet metal or
other approved non-combustible material.
Section 603 Duct Construction And Installation, subsection 603.1 is deleted and
replaced with the following:
603.1 General. An air distribution system shall be designed and installed to
supply the required distribution of air. The installation of an air
distribution system shall not affect the fire protection requirements specified
in the building code. Ducts shall be constructed, braced, reinforced and
installed to provide structural strength and durability. In residential
applications, all hot and cold air returns shall be constructed of sheet metal.
(Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 6
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Adoption Of Fire Code
9-6-2: Amendments To Code
9-6-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE:
The Village has adopted by ordinance and incorporated by reference into this
chapter as the Fire Code of the Village of Western Springs, Cook County,
Illinois, the code entitled the International Fire Code, 2018 edition, as
published by the International Code Council (ICC), except as amended in this
chapter or by the publisher. Three (3) copies of the International Fire Code,
2018 edition, and all of its regulations are on file in the Office of the
Village Clerk and are kept available for public use, inspection and examination
in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-
2014; amd. Ord. 22-3098, 9-26-2022)
9-6-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the International Fire Code, 2018 edition, are
amended as follows:
IFC 105.4.2.1 Fire Department System Drawings:
For each hydraulically calculated automatic sprinkler system identified on the
submitted drawing, the applicant shall provide the Village with a copy of the
hydraulic nameplate.
IFC 106 Re-Inspection Fee:
The Code Official may allow up to thirty (30) calendar days to correct any non-
compliance with the Fire Code or violation(s) of the Fire Code, including but
not limited to any Fire Code Compliance action matter or any Fire Code
corrective action matter. If the non-compliance condition or the violation(s)
has not been corrected after the expiration of the allowed compliance action
period, a re-inspection fee of $100.00 will be imposed on the owner, occupant,
operator or the person responsible for the non-compliance condition or the
violation(s) for each subsequent inspection by the Village that is required to
check for compliance. This re-inspection fee is a separate fee that must be
paid by the owner, occupant, operator or the person responsible for the non-
compliance condition or violation(s) and does not replace any other penalties
for Code violations that are allowed by the code.
IFC 106 False Alarm Fee:
A charge of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per call or response shall be
assessed to the property owner or the automatic fire alarm equipment owner, if
the alarm is installed and maintained by someone or some company other than the
property owner, which initiates a response by the Western Springs Fire
Department, for a false alarm being given or transmitted by these facilities to
the Western Springs Fire Department.
False Alarm Payment Time Period: A false alarm charge shall be for the second
false alarm transmitted and responded to in any capacity by the Western Springs
Fire Department during any ninety (90) consecutive calendar day period, whether
caused by malfunctioning or intentionally or negligently misused or abused
facilities or equipment or inadequately maintained and which results in a fire
suppression and/or rescue apparatus and equipment being unnecessarily called to
the property in response thereto. All false alarm charges shall be paid to the
village within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of an invoice for such
charges.
IFC 109 Board Of Appeals: Delete in its entirety.
IFC 507.5.4 Obstruction To Fire Hydrants And IFC 912.4 Obstruction To Fire
Department Connections:
No person shall park a vehicle or store equipment in front of a fire hydrant,
fire department standpipe or sprinkler system connection, nor within fifteen
(15) feet on each side thereof, unless the licensed driver is seated behind the
steering wheel and the engine is running.
IFC 901.6.3.2 Records Information. Written records and/or reports of
inspections, tests and maintenance of fire protection systems are required to
be maintained in accordance with this Code, or those codes adopted or
incorporated herein by reference in this code. Those records and reports shall
be forwarded to the Western Springs Fire Department using the Fire Department's
designated 3rd party service provider system. Any company doing inspection,
testing and maintenance to fire protection systems shall be required to
register with the Fire Department's 3rd party service provider.
IFC 901.7 System Out Of Service:
No automatic fire detection or fire suppression systems shall be out of service
for more than twelve (12) hours for additions, alterations, maintenance or
repairs without the advance written approval of the Western Springs Fire
Department. When an automatic fire detection or fire suppression system is out
of service for any reason, notice thereof shall be given immediately to the
Western Springs Fire Department. In addition, the building owner or designated
representative, prior to taking any such system out of service for more than
twelve (12) hours, shall notify all tenants and occupants of any building
affected by the system taken out of service that no automatic fire detection or
fire suppression system is in operation and for what time period that will be
the case. The building owner or designated representative shall notify the
Western Springs Fire Department.
IFC 902 Definition Of Fire Area:
The aggregate floor area bounded by the exterior walls of a building;
regardless of fire walls, fire barriers, or fire resistance-rated horizontal
assemblies. The area shall not be subdivided into multiple fire areas to permit
the omission of automatic fire sprinklers.
IFC 903 Automatic Sprinkler Systems For New Construction:
An Automatic fire sprinkler system, including a manual fire alarm system, shall
be installed in use groups A, B, E, H, I, M, S, F and U (commercial,
institutional or mixed-use commercial/residential) in compliance with the most
current applicable NFPA fire code.
Additions/Alterations: An automatic fire sprinkler system, including a manual
fire alarm system, shall be installed throughout the existing building in use
groups A, B, E, H, I, M, S, F and U (commercial, institutional, or mixed use
commercial/residential) in compliance with the most current applicable NFPA
code for the following: additions and alterations exceeding 2,500 square feet
in gross floor area, additions in buildings resulting in an overall gross area
of 2,500 square feet or greater alterations to existing buildings (exceeding a
gross floor area of 2,500 square feet).
IFC 903.3.9 Sprinkler System Calculations:
Provide a minimum of 10% but not less than 5 psi minimum safety factor in the
fire protection system hydraulic calculation. The system demand shall be 5 psi
minimum below the seasonal low water flow test supply.
IFC 903.4.2.1.1 Exterior Appliances:
Visual/Audible Exterior Appliances. A visual/audible appliance supervised by
the fire alarm system blue horn/strobe shall be provided above the fire
department connection. A blue 75cd weatherproof strobe light shall be provided
above the fire department connection. The strobe light shall be supervised by
the fire alarm system and shall operate upon water flow activation.
IFC 903.4.3 Floor Control Valves:
Indication control valves and water flow valves shall be provided at the point
of connection to the riser on each floor in multiple story buildings (instead
of just high rises).
IFC 907.5.2.3.5 Visible Alarms:
In single story Multi-Tenant Group M buildings, alarms shall ring by tenant
activation, by a fire sprinkler flow switch for each space or manual and
automatic fire detection and shall include a weatherproof clear outside strobe
over the entrance to each tenant space as directed by the fire department. All
outside strobes shall be 75 candela minimum.
IFC 912.3 Fire Department Connections:
All new fire department connections shall be a four inch (4") storz connection
with a 30-degree downturn.
   Installation of fire alarm, fire sprinkler and knox box requirements as set
forth at section 9-2-4 (amendments to international building code) of the
municipal code of Western Springs, as revised from time to time, are
incorporated by reference in their entirety into this chapter, except for the
“Violation; Fines And Penalties” provision, which cannot be adopted by
reference and must be specifically adopted within this chapter as required by
state law:
      Violation; Fines And Penalties: Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation for each day that the
violation continues, and each day that the violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense subject to a separate penalty. Such a fine shall be in
addition to any other fee or charge authorized pursuant to the terms of this
chapter.
(Ord. 18-2927, 7-23-2018; amd. Ord. 22-3098, 9-26-2022; Ord. 24-3214, 9-23-
2024)
CHAPTER 7
ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE 1
(Rep. by Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
CHAPTER 8
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-8-1: Adoption Of Property Maintenance Code
9-8-2: Amendments To Code
9-8-1: ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The village has adopted by ordinance and incorporated by reference into this
chapter as the property maintenance code of the village of Western Springs,
Cook County, Illinois, the code entitled the international property maintenance
code, 2006 edition, as published by the International Code Council (ICC),
except as amended in this chapter or by the publisher. Three (3) copies of the
international property maintenance code, 2006 edition, and all of its
regulations are on file in the office of the village clerk and are kept
available for public use, inspection and examination in accordance with 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
9-8-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the international property maintenance code, 2006
edition, are amended as follows:
Section 101.1 (page 1, second line): Insert in parentheses (village of Western
Springs).
Section 106.4 Penalties: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation for each day that the violation continues, and
each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense
subject to a separate penalty. Such a fine shall be in addition to any other
fee or charge authorized pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
Section 111 Right To Appeal is deleted.
Section 507 Storm Drainage, subsection 507.1 shall read as follows:
Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts, and other open areas on
the premises, shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public
nuisance. Roof drains and sump pumps must be discharged to a grassy surface in
a manner that does not create a public nuisance. Roof drains and sump pump
discharges shall be located within five feet (5') of the building wall and may
not discharge directly onto adjoining properties.
Section 603.2 Heat Supply: Insert October 1st [date] to June 1st [date].
(Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 9
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Powers Of The Chief Building And Code Official
9-9-2: Notice Of Unsafe Structure
9-9-3: Repair Or Demolition
9-9-4: Improper Construction
9-9-5: Demolition By Department Of Fire And Inspectional Services
9-9-6: Destruction By Fire
9-9-7: Nuisance Declared
9-9-8: Stopping Improper Construction Or Wrecking
9-9-1: POWERS OF THE CHIEF BUILDING AND CODE OFFICIAL:
The Chief Building and Code Official shall have the responsibility to
administrate, regulate and offer opinions relating to the provisions of this
Chapter, subject to the conditions, modifications and limitations contained
herein. (Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
9-9-2: NOTICE OF UNSAFE STRUCTURE:
   A.   Notice To Owner: If the Department of Code Enforcement shall find in
the Village any building or structure or part thereof in such an unsafe
condition as to endanger life, health or property, but such that, by the
immediate application of precautionary measures, the danger may be averted, he
shall forthwith notify in writing the owner, agent, contractor or person in
possession, charge or control of such building or structure or part thereof to
adopt and put into effect such precautionary measures as may be necessary or
advisable in order to put such building or structure or part thereof in a safe
condition. Such notice shall state briefly the nature of the work required to
be done, and shall designate a time within which such work shall be completed,
this time to be fixed by the Department of Code Enforcement upon taking into
consideration the condition of such building or structure or part thereof and
the danger to life or property due to its unsafe condition. Such notice may be
served personally or by registered mail.
   B.   Posting Notice: If the Department of Code Enforcement shall be unable
to find the owner of such building, structure or part thereof, or any agent,
contractor or person in possession, charge or control thereof, upon whom such
notice may be served, he shall post the said notice upon such building, at or
near its principal entrance. (1978 Code § 5-7-2; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-2064,
12-21-1998)
9-9-3: REPAIR OR DEMOLITION:
   A.   Repair Of Structure: If the owner, agent, contractor or person in
possession, charge or control of such building or structure or part thereof,
when notified as hereinabove provided, shall fail, neglect or refuse to put
such building, structure or part thereof, in a safe condition, and to adopt
such precautionary measures as shall have been specified by the Department of
Code Enforcement within the time specified in such notice, then, at the
expiration of such time, the Chief Building and Code Official may proceed
forthwith to do, or cause to be done, all work necessary to place such
building, structure or part thereof in a safe condition.
   B.   Demolition Of Structure: If the work of putting any building, structure
or part thereof in safe condition must be accomplished by the Chief Building
and Code Official and it shall appear that such building, structure or part
thereof is in such condition as not to warrant the expenditure thereon of a
sufficient sum of money to make such repairs or to do such work as is necessary
to put it in a safe condition, the Chief Building and Code Official shall have
authority to tear down or demolish such building or structure or part thereof,
and the expense thereof and the expense of making any repairs or doing any work
thereon shall be charged to the person owning or in possession, charge or
control of such building or structure or part thereof, and the Chief Building
and Code Official shall recover or cause to be recovered from such owner or
person in possession, charge or control, the cost to the Village of doing such
work. (1978 Code § 5-7-3; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
9-9-4: IMPROPER CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Notice To Owner: If it shall be found that any building or structure or
part thereof is being constructed or built in violation of any of the
provisions of this Code or of the building code, the Department of Code
Enforcement shall forthwith, in writing, notify the owner, agent, contractor,
superintendent or architect engaged in erecting such building, structure or
part thereof, of such fact, and shall specify briefly in such notice in what
manner such provisions have been violated, and shall require the person so
notified to forthwith make such building, structure or part thereof conform to
and comply with the provisions of this Code and of the building code,
specifying in such notice the time within which such work shall be done.
   B.   Demolition Of Structure: If, at the expiration of the time set forth in
such notice, the person so notified shall have refused, neglected or failed to
comply with the request made in such notice and to have such building or
structure, or part thereof, concerning which notice was sent, changed so as to
conform to and comply with the provisions of this Code and of the building
code, the Department of Code Enforcement shall proceed forthwith to tear down
or cause to be torn down such building or structure, or such part thereof as
has been erected and constructed in violation of any of said provisions, and
the cost of such work shall be charged to and recovered from the owner of such
building or structure or from the person for whom such building or structure is
being erected. (1978 Code § 5-7-4; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
9-9-5: DEMOLITION BY DEPARTMENT OF FIRE AND INSPECTIONAL SERVICES:
The Department of Code Enforcement shall also have authority to direct the
Director of Fire and Inspectional Services, after written notice has been
served upon the owner, lessee, occupant, agent, contractor or person in
possession, charge or control thereof, to tear down any defective or dangerous
wall or any building or part thereof which may be constructed in violation of
the terms of this Code or of the building code. (1978 Code § 5-7-5; amd. 1997
Code; Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
9-9-6: DESTRUCTION BY FIRE:
In case of the destruction, or partial destruction, of any building by fire or
by the action of the elements, when any department of the Village government,
pursuant to the provisions of this Code, shall have incurred any expense on
behalf of the Village in an effort to preserve or to prevent the destruction of
any such building, or for the preservation of the life or health of its
occupants, the Department of Code Enforcement shall ascertain the amount of
such expenditure and present a claim therefor to the owner of such building or
his agent and shall collect the same from such owner or agent. No permit for
the reconstruction, alteration or repair of such buildings shall be issued
until such claim has been paid. (1978 Code § 5-7-6; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-
2064, 12-21-1998)
9-9-7: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any unsafe, dilapidated or abandoned building or other structure situated
within the limits of the Village is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
punishable as such, and each day that such building or other structure shall be
permitted to remain in such unsafe, dilapidated or abandoned condition shall
constitute a separate offense. (1978 Code § 5-7-7)
9-9-8: STOPPING IMPROPER CONSTRUCTION OR WRECKING:
The Chief Building and Code Official or his designee shall have full authority
and power to stop summarily the construction or the wrecking or tearing down of
any building, when the same is being done in a reckless or careless manner or
in violation of any provision of this Code, or in such manner as to endanger
life or property, and to order any and all persons engaged in said work to stop
and desist therefrom. (1978 Code § 5-7-8; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-
1998)
CHAPTER 10
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Purpose
9-10-2: Definitions
9-10-3: Applicability; Exceptions
9-10-4: General Construction; Maintenance
9-10-5: Standards For Illuminated Signs
9-10-6: Location
9-10-7: General Restrictions
9-10-8: Signs Prohibited In All Districts
9-10-9: Signs Permitted In Residential Districts
9-10-10: Signs Permitted In Commercial Districts
9-10-11: Attention Getting Devices And Banners In Commercial Districts
9-10-12: Standards For Wall Signs
9-10-13: Standards For Freestanding Signs
9-10-14: Standards For Window Signs
9-10-15: Standards For Suspended Signs
9-10-16: Standards For Canopy And Awning Signs
9-10-17: Uniform Sign Plans For Shopping Centers And Other Multi-Occupant Land
Uses
9-10-18: Administration And Enforcement Responsibilities
9-10-19: Permit Requirement And Procedure; Schedule Of Required Sign Permit
Fees
9-10-20: Nonconforming Signs
9-10-21: Variations
9-10-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To preserve and protect the public health, safety and welfare by
regulating outdoor advertising and signs of all types.
   B.   To maintain the inherent right of business to communicate reasonably
and identify their products and services by promoting the reasonable, orderly
and effective display of signs and outdoor advertising.
   C.   To enhance the physical appearance of the village, making it a more
enjoyable and pleasing community. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
9-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The width of a building as measured along the outside wall
most parallel to the street which fronts the building. Where an establishment
occupies only part of the building, then the building frontage of that
establishment is the width of that portion of the building which is occupied by
the establishment.
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS: The C1 village center commercial district, C2 community
shopping district, O limited office district, ORI office research and limited
industrial district and DT downtown transitional district as set out in the
development control ordinance.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or affix and shall
also include the painting of all signs.
MULTI-OCCUPANT LAND USE: Any combination of multi-family dwellings and/or
nonresidential establishment in one or more buildings under single ownership or
management with common parking facilities. This shall include, but not be
limited to, a shopping center, multi-tenant office building, apartment complex
or townhome development.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a permit has been issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
PERSON: Means and includes any individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS: The A single-family residence district, R1 single-family
residence district, R2 single-family residence district, R3 two-family
residence district, R4 multi-family residence district, RB residential buffer
district, SFA single-family attached residence district and R5 continuing care
retirement community residence district set out in the development control
ordinance.
SHOPPING CENTER: Any concentration of retail stores and service establishments
in one or more buildings under single ownership or management with common
parking facilities.
SIGN: Any object, device, display or structure or part thereof which is used
primarily to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention to an
object, person, institution, organization, business, project, service event or
location by any means including words, letters, figures, designs, symbols,
fixtures, colors, motion, illumination or projected images. The term "sign"
includes, but is not limited to, every projecting sign, wall sign, roof sign,
billboard, posterboard, freestanding sign, ground sign, window sign, vehicle
sign, awning, canopy, marquee, changeable copy sign, illuminated sign, flashing
sign, animated sign, temporary sign, portable sign or any other attention
getting device, or other display whether affixed to a building or separate from
any building.
Animated Sign: Any sign or part of a sign which changes physical position by
any movement or rotation, or any sign which presents the illusion of movement.
Attention Getting Device: Any pennant, flag, valance, banner, propeller,
spinner, streamer, searchlight, balloon and similar device or ornamentation
designed for purposes of promotion or advertising or attracting attention.
Awning, Marquee, Canopy Sign: Includes any fixed sign, as well as retractable
or removable marquee, canopy and awning, respectively, projected over,
suspended above or erected upon any public thoroughfare.
Awning Sign: A sign which appears on a rooflike shelter, either permanent,
retractable or removable, which is made of canvas or other material that is
affixed to a building or structure in order to provide protection from sun,
rain, snow and other elements.
Banner: A piece of fabric or flexible plastic which is suspended from or
attached to a building, pole or similar fixture and is designed or used for the
purpose of promoting, advertising or attracting attention.
Billboard Or Posterboard: A single or double faced sign permanently erected on
the premises, including changeable copy signs, used for the display of
information not associated with the establishment located on the same premises
as such sign.
Business Sign: A sign that directs attention to or advertises a business or
profession conducted upon or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or
offered upon the zoning lot upon which such sign is erected.
Canopy Sign: A sign which appears on a rooflike shelter, either permanent,
retractable or removable, which is self-supporting and provides protection from
sun, rain, snow and other elements.
Changeable Copy Sign: A sign wherein provision is made for the manual change of
letters or characters in the field in or upon the surface area of the sign.
Construction Sign: A sign which is erected in association with construction or
remodeling work being conducted on the property and announces the name of and/
or other information about the architect, contractor or subcontractor who is
performing the work or about the project itself.
Directional Or Informational Sign: A sign which directs or guides persons to an
establishment or to facilities intended to serve the public, including
entrances, exits, parking areas, towing zones and full service and self-service
gasoline pumps.
Externally Illuminated Sign: A sign illuminated by a source of light which is
cast upon, or falls upon, the surface or face of the sign to illuminate by
reflection only.
Festoon Lighting: A group of two (2) or more incandescent light bulbs hung or
strung overhead, not on a building or structure, which are exposed to persons
on a public right of way, or which are not shaded or hooded to prevent the
direct rays of light from being visible from the property line.
Flashing Signs: Any directly or indirectly illuminated sign, either stationary
or animated, which exhibits changing natural or artificial light or color
effects by any means whatsoever.
Freestanding Sign Or Ground Sign: A sign which is completely or principally
self-supported by one or more posts or other supports which are not attached to
the principal building on the property and anchored in or upon the ground. This
shall include, but not be limited to, signs attached to poles or supports for
lights, canopies and other items or structures.
Garage Sale Sign: A sign which announces a garage sale or rummage sale
conducted by the owner or occupant of the property.
Identification Sign: Any sign which states the name of the business or
establishment, including either the national company or local proprietor and/or
the nature of the goods, services or other activities available at or conducted
in the business or establishment.
Internally Illuminated Sign: A sign, all or any part of the letters or design
of which is made of incandescent, neon or other types of lamps; a sign which
painted, flush or raised letters lighted by an electric lamp or lamps are
attached thereto; a sign having a border of incandescent or fluorescent lamps
thereto attached and reflecting light thereon; or a translucent sign, whether
lighted by electricity or other illuminant.
Nameplate: A sign which displays only the name and/or address of the occupant.
Nonconforming Sign: A sign, lawful at the time of the enactment of this
chapter, or at the time of the enactment of any amendment hereto which renders
the sign nonconforming, but which does not comply with all of the regulations
of this chapter or any amendment hereto.
Obsolete Sign: A sign which advertises a business which is not being presently
conducted upon the premises on which the sign is located.
Off Premises Sign: A sign which directs attention to or advertises a use,
business, commodity, service or activity not conducted, sold or offered upon
the premises where the sign is located. (This term also includes those signs
commonly known as business signs, billboards and poster panels.)
Personal Celebration Sign: A sign which announces or commemorates a special
event pertaining to a particular person or identifiable group of persons, such
as a birthday, graduation, anniversary or welcome home.
Political Sign: Any sign announcing candidates seeking political office and/or
any sign concerning political issues or other issues affecting government or
public policy.
Portable Sign: (This term also includes those signs commonly known as sandwich
signs.) Any sign that is not permanently affixed to a building structure or the
ground; a sign designed to be moved from place to place. These signs primarily
include, but are not limited to, signs attached to wood or metal frames
designed to be self-supporting and movable; paper, cardboard or canvas signs
wrapped around supporting poles. Also included are those signs, commonly
trailer mounted, which are designed to be moved from place to place.
Projecting Sign: A sign supported by a wall which projects more than twelve
inches (12") over any street, sidewalk, alley or public way or public easement
or which projects more than twelve inches (12") from the face of any building,
structure or supporting wall. Any sign suspended under a marquee and in a place
approximately perpendicular to the wall of the adjoining building shall not be
deemed to be a "projecting sign".
Real Estate Sign: A sign located for purposes of advertising a parcel of land
or a building as available for sale, rental or lease.
Roof Sign: A sign erected, constructed or maintained in whole or in part upon
or over the roof of a building or structure. Roof signs shall not include those
signs maintained upon the lower slope of a mansard roof which do not extend
above the uppermost point of the lower slope. Such signs shall be classified as
wall signs.
Sign Face: That part of the sign which is or can be used to identify,
advertise, to communicate information or for visual representation which
attracts the attention of the public for any purpose. This shall include any
background material, panel, trim, color and direct or self-illumination that
differentiates the sign from the building structure, backdrop surface or object
upon or against which it is placed. This shall not include any portion of the
support structure for the sign; provided, that no message, symbol or any of the
aforementioned sign face criteria is placed on or designed as part of the
support structure.
Sign Surface Area: The exposed surface of the sign enclosed by the perimeter of
the sign face. With respect to signs which are composed of a group of
individual symbols, letters, figures, illustrations, messages, forms or panels,
the sign surface area shall be the smallest contiguous rectangle which encloses
the whole group.
Suspended Sign: A sign which is suspended over a pedestrian walkway from the
marquee, overhang, soffit or similar feature of a building.
Temporary Sign: Any sign, banner, pennant, valance or other display constructed
of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or other materials, with
or without a frame, and intended or designed for use for a limited period of
time.
Time And/Or Temperature Signs:
   A.   Time Signs: Devices which periodically display the time of day.
   B.   Temperature Signs: Devices which periodically display the current
temperature.
Traffic Sign: Any official traffic signs authorized by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes or the Illinois vehicle code.
Wall Sign: A sign which is mounted on, attached to, carved or integrated into,
or applied to the exterior wall of a building or structure, or to the lower
slope of a mansard roof.
Window Promotional Sign: Any sign painted on, affixed to or placed against any
window, or which is placed in a display case for view from the outdoors through
a window, for the specific purpose of attracting the attention of passersby to
a sale, special promotional item or other products or services, or for the
purpose of announcing a change in the status of the business, such as a grand
opening, change in management or going out of business. This shall include, but
not be limited to, signs stating the prices of merchandise or services, but
shall not include the display of merchandise in the window.
Window Sign: A sign which is painted on, affixed to or placed against any
window, or which is placed in a display case for view from the outdoors through
a window.
VILLAGE CENTER - C1: Those commercial districts adjacent to Hillgrove Avenue
between Central Avenue and Howard Avenue, and adjacent to Burlington Avenue
between Central Avenue and Johnson Avenue. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993; amd. 1997
Code; Ord. 12-2705, 12-17-2012)
9-10-3: APPLICABILITY; EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following listed signs,
except that there are certain specific provisions contained in this chapter
that regulate certain signs listed below:
   A.   Signs not visible beyond the boundaries of the lot or parcel upon which
they are situated or from any public thoroughfare or right of way.
   B.   Official signs of any public or governmental agency.
   C.   Any sign of any official court or public office notices thereof, or any
flag, emblem or insignia of a government, school or religious group.
   D.   Any sign which is located completely within an enclosed building, and
which sign is not visible from outside of the building.
   E.   Tablets, grave markers, headstones, statuary/memorial plaques or
remembrances of persons or events that are noncommercial in nature and which
project no more than four inches (4") above the ground.
   F.   Any official traffic signs authorized by the Illinois Compiled Statutes
or the Illinois vehicle code.
   G.   Temporary signs celebrating the occasion of traditionally accepted
patriotic or religious holidays as well as national and state holidays.
   H.   Signs of a noncommercial nature and in the public interest erected by,
or on the order of, a public officer, including any temporary sign regarding
demolition, excavation or construction activities required by subsection
9-13-9B of this title.
   I.   Signs on a truck, bus, trailer or other vehicle used in the normal
course of a business which is not primarily the display of such signs.
   J.   Changing of the copy of a sign, bulletin board, display encasement,
marquee or maintenance where no structural changes are made, or changing of
interchangeable letters on signs designed for use of interchangeable letters.
   K.   Private (noncommercial) nameplate identification signs or street
address identification signs when such signs do not exceed two (2) square feet
in area.
   L.   Tablets, such as memorials, cornerstones, name of a building, date of
erection, when built into the walls of the building or affixed thereto.
   M.   Temporary signs, not including political signs, for events of a
general, villagewide, civic or public benefit nature as may be authorized by
the village board of trustees, which signs shall be removed within forty eight
(48) hours after the expiration of such event.
   N.   No trespassing signs, warning signs (e.g., "Beware Of Dog") and other
such signs regulating the use of property when such signs do not exceed two (2)
square feet in area.
   O.   Real estate signs advertising or directing persons to a "realtor open
house". Such signs may be placed on private property or within a public right
of way on the ground, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The realtor open house sign shall not exceed four (4) square feet in
area.
      2.   The realtor open house sign shall be a freestanding ground sign, not
attached to any utility pole or structure nor to any traffic control sign or
related pole, and shall be placed at least three feet (3') from the curb or
edge of the pavement.
      3.   Only one realtor open house sign shall be permitted within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of another sign which relates to the same address,
and only one realtor open house sign relating to the same address shall be
permitted in front of a single lot.
      4.   The realtor open house sign shall not interfere with traffic,
visibility or public safety, as determined by any village officer or employee
authorized to enforce any of the provisions of this code, and shall only be
displayed on Friday, Saturday and Sunday of the weekend that the realtor open
house will take place, and only between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
      5.   No attention or attracting devices shall be attached to any realtor
open house sign.
      6.   Each realtor open house sign must have attached to it an adhesive
label or other means to identify the name, address and telephone number of the
person responsible for the placement and removal of such sign.
      7.   If the sign does not comply with the above restrictions, a fine in
the amount of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) shall be charged to the person whose name is on
the sign pursuant to the penalty provisions set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. If no names are found on the sign, the owner(s) of the
property identified on the sign shall be assessed the fine.
   P.   Political signs which are placed on private personal property,
commercial property, or real property with the consent of the owner, do not
exceed a surface area of six (6) square feet per face and do not violate the
location restrictions of section
9-10-6 of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-2457, 8-27-2007; amd. Ord. 12-2705, 12-17-2012; Ord. 25-3253, 3-24-
2025)
9-10-4: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE:
All signs shall be constructed and maintained as hereinafter described:
   A.   Building Code: All signs shall be constructed of approved materials and
shall comply with the requirements of the Western Springs building code and any
amendments thereto.
   B.   Electrical Code: All signs in which any electrical wiring and/or
connections are to be used shall comply with the village of Western Springs
electrical code and any amendments thereto. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
   C.   Development Control Ordinance: All signs shall comply with all
applicable requirements set forth in the village development control ordinance
and any amendments thereto. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993; amd. 1997 Code)
   D.   Metal Signs: A metal sign shall have its face or background constructed
of metal not thinner than no. 28 B and S gauge, which may cover a wood frame
and may be provided with letters, figures, characters, borders or moldings of
wood. The border, if of wood, shall not exceed three inches (3") in width.
   E.   Maintenance: The permittee for each sign shall paint and maintain all
parts and supports thereof as necessary to prevent rusting, rotting,
illegibility or other deterioration. All broken or missing parts shall be
promptly replaced. All seams between panels or other components of the sign
shall be maintained in a sealed condition.
   F.   Wind Pressure And Dead Load Requirements: All signs shall be designed
and constructed to withstand a wind pressure of thirty (30) pounds per square
foot and shall be constructed to receive dead loads as required in the village
building code and other applicable village ordinances and any amendments
thereto which the village may adopt from time to time.
   G.   Glass Limitations: Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be safety
glass.
   H.   Posting Of Permit Information For Electrical Signs: For any sign with
electrical components, the village may require the person erecting the sign to
post on the sign a certificate, permit or other label identifying the voltage
of any electrical apparatus used therein, the date the sign was erected and
other information relating to the issuance of a permit for the sign or village
inspection of the sign.
   I.   Legibility: All letters, characters, logos and symbols on each sign
shall be legible, with the edges of the letters and characters cleanly defined
and unfaded. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
9-10-5: STANDARDS FOR ILLUMINATED SIGNS:
All internally or externally illuminated signs shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Limits On Internal Illumination: No sign shall be internally
illuminated except for a sign having an opaque background and illuminating only
letters, trademarks or logos.
   B.   Limits On Degree Of Illumination: Signs shall be illuminated only by
steady, stationary, shielded light sources directed solely at the sign, or
internal to it, without creating a traffic hazard for motorists or pedestrians.
Illuminated signs shall not produce more than thirty (30) foot-candles of
illumination four feet (4') from the sign.
   C.   External Illumination: Whenever external illumination is used for a
sign, the source of light shall be located, shielded and directed in such a
manner that the light source is not visible from a public street or private
residence.
   D.   No Placement Inside Windows: Illuminated signs shall not hang or be
placed inside any window. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
9-10-6: LOCATION:
   Signs within the village shall be subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Locations Prohibited Generally: No sign shall be erected in a location
prohibited by this chapter. No sign shall be erected so as to prevent free
ingress to or egress from any door or window, or any other way required by the
building code of the village and amendments thereto or by the department of
community development regulations.
   B.   Utility Poles, Trees, Fire Escapes: No sign shall be attached to a
utility pole, a tree, a standpipe, gutter drain or fire escape, nor shall any
sign be erected so as to impair access to a roof.
   C.   Rights-Of-Way And Parkways: No sign, with the exception of political
signs on election day, shall be located, erected or maintained upon any right-
of-way or parkway for any purpose, except for traffic signs, informational or
temporary signs and official signs authorized by the Village or other public or
government agencies as provided for in subsections
9-10-9H,
9-10-3B, F, G, H, and M of this chapter, and realtor open house signs as
provided for in subsection
9-10-3O of this chapter. On election days, political signs are allowed on any
polling place property while the polls are open, and only beyond the one
hundred foot (100') radius of the polling room, whether publicly or privately
owned.
   D.   Interfering With Traffic Signs Or Signals: Any sign which from the
street is in direct line of vision of any traffic sign or signal is prohibited.
   E.   Creating Traffic Hazards: All signs which are declared to be a traffic
hazard by the Department of Law Enforcement Services shall be relocated or
rearranged in accordance with safety standards.
   F.   Violating State Law: No sign permitted under this chapter shall be
allowed or maintained if the sign shall in any way violate the Illinois Highway
Advertising Control Act of 1971, as amended.
   G.   Above Roofs: No sign shall be located so as to project above the top
edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever forms the top line of the
building silhouette.
(Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998; Ord. 13-2728, 9-9-
2013; Ord. 25-3253, 3-24-2025)
9-10-7: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Allowed Information In Signs: No sign (excluding signs located wholly
within a building or signs erected in conformance with subsection B of this
section or subsection
9-10-9G of this chapter) shall be erected or maintained on any premises, except
to identify the building or to state the name or the person or entity occupying
the premises and the product or service offered. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
   B.   Political Signs: These signs shall not exceed a surface area of six (6)
square feet per sign face. These signs shall be placed only on private personal
property or within the boundaries of private real property. On election days,
political signs are allowed on any polling place property while the polls are
open, and only beyond the one hundred foot (100') radius of the polling room,
whether publicly or privately owned.
(Ord. 12-2705, 12-17-2012; amd. Ord. 25-3253, 3-24-2025)
9-10-8: SIGNS PROHIBITED IN ALL DISTRICTS:
Animated signs.
Attention getting devices (except as otherwise provided in section
9-10-11 of this chapter).
Billboards or posterboards.
Festoon lighting (except where installed by the Village of Western Springs or
approved by the Village Board as part of a temporary use permit as an outdoor
dining and/or outdoor liquor cafe).
Flashing signs.
Obsolete signs.
Off premises signs.
Portable signs.
Projecting signs.
Roof signs.
Signs in conflict with traffic signals.
Signs painted on the walls of buildings.
Signs which move or have moving parts, which movement is caused by the wind or
mechanically.
Time and temperature signs. (Ord. 17-2872, 2-27-2017)
9-10-9: SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
In all residential districts, only the following classes of signs are permitted
in accordance with the regulations set forth herein:
   A.   Exceptions: Signs listed as exceptions to this chapter in section
9-10-3 of this chapter shall be permitted in residential districts.
   B.   Nameplates And Identification Signs For Multiple-Family Dwellings:
These shall be permitted in R4 Residential Districts, subject to the following:
      1.   Area And Number: There shall not be more than one nameplate for each
dwelling unit indicating the name and address of each occupant. Furthermore,
one additional identification sign not exceeding six (6) square feet displaying
the name and address and/or management of the development shall be permitted
for each building complex or development.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than seven feet (7') above
ground level at the base of the sign.
      3.   Location: No identification sign shall be located less than fifteen
feet (15') from the property line.
   C.   Real Estate Signs: These shall be permitted in residential districts,
subject to the following:
      1.   Area And Number: There shall be not more than one such sign for each
lot, parcel or tract. No sign shall exceed six (6) square feet in area. In
computing the area of a real estate sign, the structural supports adjacent to
and coterminous with the sign face, if any, shall be considered part of the
display and thus of the "sign surface area" as defined in section
9-10-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than forty two inches (42")
above the ground level at the base of the sign.
      3.   Location: No sign shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15') to
any other lot, parcel or tract.
      4.   Removal: Signs shall not be allowed to be maintained for more than
fourteen (14) days after the sale or rental of the property.
   D.   Directional Or Informational Signs: These signs shall be permitted in
residential districts, subject to the following:
      1.   Area And Number: Signs designating parking area entrances or exits
are limited to one sign for each such exit or entrance and to a maximum size of
two (2) square feet each. In addition, one sign designating the existence per
parking area and limited to a maximum size of two (2) square feet shall be
permitted.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than seven feet (7') above the
ground level at the base of the sign.
   E.   Institutional Identification Signs For Institutional And Other
Nonresidential Uses: These signs shall be permitted in residential districts,
subject to the following:
      1.   Area And Number: There shall be no more than one sign per lot,
parcel or tract. No sign shall exceed thirty (30) square feet in area per sign
face.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than seven feet (7') above the
ground level at the base of the sign.
      3.   Location: No sign shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15') to
any other lot, parcel or tract.
   F.   Institutional Changeable Copy Signs: These signs shall be permitted in
residential districts, subject to the following:
      1.   Area And Number: There shall be no more than one sign per lot,
parcel or tract. No sign shall exceed thirty (30) square feet in area per sign
face.
      2.   Height: No sign shall project higher than seven feet (7') above the
ground level at the base of the sign.
      3.   Location: No sign shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15') to
any other lot, parcel or tract.
   G.   Temporary Signs: Only the following classes of temporary signs shall be
permitted in residential districts, subject to the regulations contained
herein:
      1.   No such sign, other than a personal celebration sign, shall exceed a
surface area of six (6) square feet per sign face and twelve (12) square feet
total;
      2.   No more than two (2) temporary signs shall be placed on the property
at any one time, and no more than one temporary sign of a particular type shall
be placed on the property at any one time;
      3.   No such sign shall be illuminated;
      4.   No such sign, other than a personal celebration sign, shall project
higher than forty two inches (42") above the ground level at the base of the
sign;
      5.   No such sign shall be located within five feet (5') of any other
lot, parcel or tract;
      6.   No such sign shall be located, erected or maintained upon any public
right of way;
      7.   (Rep. by Ord. 12-2705, 12-17-2012)
      8.   A temporary real estate sign shall be removed no later than fourteen
(14) days after a lease for the property has been signed by the new tenant or
after title to the property has been transferred to the new owner;
      9.   A temporary sign shall, for a garage sale or art/craft sale, in no
case be erected for a period longer than three (3) days, nor shall such signs
be erected on the same property for a total of more than three (3) days in any
thirty (30) day period; and
      10.   A temporary personal celebration sign shall in no case be erected
for a period longer than three (3) days, nor shall such signs be erected on the
same property for a total of more than three (3) days in any thirty (30) day
period.
      11.   In connection with the construction or remodeling of a building,
there shall be permitted one sign not exceeding six (6) square feet in area,
per sign face, including supports. Said sign shall be removed within one week
after completion of the structure indicated. Such signs shall not be
illuminated.
      12.   A political sign shall not exceed a surface area of six (6) square
feet per sign face. Political signs on residential property are not prohibited
during any period of time; however, political signs that fall into disrepair or
become a nuisance due to their condition must be removed, but may be replaced
with a sign in good condition.
   H.   Subdivision Identification Signage: These signs shall be permitted in
residential districts, subject to the following:
      1.   No such sign shall exceed thirty six (36) square feet of surface
area per sign face. Surface area shall include any supporting structures. Each
sign shall be restricted to two (2) faces.
      2.   Subdivision identification signs shall indicate only the name of the
subdivision and not include any other information.
      3.   No such sign shall be located in the public right of way, except
upon approval of an ordinance authorizing the location of the sign by majority
vote of the corporate authorities. The criteria that the corporate authorities
shall rely on in considering the approval of such sign shall consist of the
recommendation of the village engineer and submittal of evidence from the
applicant that allows the corporate authorities to make a finding that the
criteria set forth in subsection H4 of this section have been met.
      4.   Existing nonconforming subdivision identification signage may be
replaced even if located in a public right of way, provided that the following
criteria are met: it complies with all other sections of this chapter
concerning new signage; the location of the sign does not obstruct any driver
or pedestrian sightlines or create other view obstructions; the placement of
the sign, in whole or in part, within the public right of way is necessary
because it is not feasible to locate the sign, in whole or in part, on private
property; receives the recommendation of the village engineer; is limited to
one sign per subdivision entranceway and is approved by ordinance by a majority
vote of the corporate authorities.
      5.   The height of subdivision identification signs, including attachment
structures, shall not exceed five feet (5') above the curb level adjacent to
the sign.
      6.   Only one subdivision identification sign shall be located per
subdivision entranceway.
      7.   Subdivision identification signs shall be externally illuminated
only; provided, that such illumination corresponds to the regulations of this
chapter.
      8.   Subdivision identification signs shall be kept in a state of good
repair and appearance so as not to reflect negatively upon adjacent properties.
The village reserves the right to remove unsightly or unkempt signs wholly or
in part located in village rights of way.
      9.   Proposed plans for subdivision identification signs shall be
reviewed by the plan commission in conjunction with other aspects of proposed
subdivision construction for conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993; amd. Ord. 13-2728, 9-9-2013; Ord. 25-3253, 3-24-2025)
9-10-10: SIGNS PERMITTED IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
In addition to those signs identified in section
9-10-3 of this chapter, only the following signs shall be allowed in commercial
districts, in accordance with the regulations set forth in this section and
elsewhere in this chapter:
   A.   Identification Signs: Identification signs.
   B.   Directional Or Informational Signs: Directional or informational signs;
provided, that:
      1.   No such sign shall have a surface area larger than two (2) square
feet per sign face.
   C.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   No political sign shall exceed a surface area of six (6) square feet
per sign face and twelve (12) square feet total;
      2.   No temporary real estate sign shall exceed a surface area of twelve
(12) square feet per sign face and twenty four (24) square feet total;
      3.   No more than two (2) temporary signs, not including political signs,
shall be placed on the property at any one time, and no more than one temporary
sign of a particular type shall be placed on the property at any one time;
      4.   No such sign shall be illuminated;
      5.   No such sign shall project higher than forty two inches (42") above
the ground level at the base of the sign;
      6.   No such sign shall be located closer than fifteen feet (15') to any
other lot, parcel or tract;
      7.   No such sign shall be located, erected or maintained upon any public
right of way;
      8.   A political sign on property used for commercial purposes shall be
erected no earlier than thirty (30) days before, and shall be removed no later
than three (3) days after, the election or other event to which it pertains.
The foregoing restriction does not apply to residential property; and
      9.   A temporary real estate sign shall be removed no later than fourteen
(14) days after a lease for the property has been signed by the new tenant or
after title to the property has been transferred to the new owner.
      10.   In connection with the construction or remodeling of a building,
there shall be permitted one sign not exceeding six (6) square feet in area per
sign face. Said sign shall be removed within one week after completion of the
structure indicated. Such signs shall not be illuminated.
   D.   Limits On Surface Areas Of Signs: The surface area of the signs on a
property in the C1 and C2 commercial districts shall not exceed the following:
      1.   The total aggregate area for all freestanding, wall, marquee and
window identification signs on any single parcel of property shall not exceed
two (2) times the linear building frontage of the principal display side of the
property, and no single wall or window sign shall exceed in any event an area
of one hundred (100) square feet.
      2.   A freestanding sign may not exceed a surface area of forty (40)
square feet per sign face or eighty (80) square feet total.
   E.   Limit On The Number Of Identification Signs For First Story
Establishments: For establishments which are located on the first story of a
building, or which are the sole occupants of a building, there shall be no more
than one identification sign for each street which the building, or that
portion of the building which is occupied by the establishment, faces. No more
than one such sign shall be erected on any one side of the building. In
addition, the establishment may have one awning sign or suspended sign on the
front of the establishment. Furthermore, where an establishment has a rear
entrance, an additional identification sign which also directs persons to the
rear entrance may be posted above or to the side of the rear entrance;
provided, that such sign does not exceed one square foot in surface area.
   F.   Limit On The Number Of Identification Signs For Upper Story
Establishments: Where the upper stories of a building are occupied by
establishments different than those on the first story, the following limits
apply (see diagram attached to ordinance 93-1856 on file in the office of the
village clerk):
      1.   If the upper story is occupied by only one establishment, then the
establishment may erect one identification sign for each street on which the
part of the building occupied by the establishment faces. Any such sign shall
be mounted on the exterior wall of the building, above the first story. No more
than one such sign shall be erected on any one side of the building. The
establishment may erect one additional identification sign on the first story;
provided, that such sign is located within four feet (4') of the first story
entrance to the establishment and does not exceed a total surface area of four
(4) square feet.
      2.   If the upper stories are occupied by more than one establishment,
then the owner or management of the building may erect one sign, identifying
the building but not the individual establishments therein, for each street on
which the building faces. Any such sign shall be mounted on the exterior wall
of the building, above the first story. No more than one such sign shall be
erected on any one side of the building. The owner or management of the
building may erect one additional sign on the first story, identifying any or
all of the occupants of the upper stories; provided, that such sign is located
within four feet (4') of the first-story entrance to those establishments and
does not exceed a total surface area of six (6) square feet.
   G.   Signs At Shopping Centers: In addition to the signs permitted under
this chapter for individual establishments within a shopping center, the
shopping center may erect one identification sign for the shopping center,
identifying the name of the shopping center but not any of the individual
establishments therein. A shopping center which occupies ten (10) acres or more
of land and which fronts on two (2) primary roads shall be allowed to have two
(2) such signs; provided, that each sign is located on and faces a different
road.
   H.   Signs At Automobile Service Stations: In addition to other signs
permitted under this chapter, automobile service stations may erect changeable
copy signs advertising the prices of different grades of gasoline or other
fuels; provided, that:
      1.   Such signs are permanently mounted either to the fuel pumps or to
the supports of a canopy covering the fuel pumps.
      2.   Such signs shall not be erected higher than twelve feet (12') above
the ground.
      3.   There shall be no more than four (4) sign faces per pump island.
      4.   The combined surface area of all such signs at each pump island does
not exceed twenty four (24) square feet.
      5.   Such signs shall not be internally illuminated except that gasoline
price signs that are a part of an existing freestanding sign may use internal
illumination to display prices. Such signs shall include only price
information. Messages or other displays are prohibited.
      6.   Two (2) directional signs indicating full- or self-service not
exceeding two (2) square feet in size are permitted per pump island.
(Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 12-2705, 12-17-2012; Ord. 13-
2728, 9-9-2013; Ord. 25-3253, 3-24-2025)
9-10-11: ATTENTION GETTING DEVICES AND BANNERS IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Approval Required: Attention getting devices, banners and signs may be
erected on a temporary basis in commercial districts, in connection with a
grand opening or similar such business event or in connection with a community
or charitable event, but only upon approval by the department of code
enforcement.
   B.   Application For Approval: Applications for approval of such a permit
shall be submitted to the department of code enforcement and processed as a
sign permit.
   C.   Restrictions On Approval: The department of code enforcement shall
approve the proposed attention getting devices or banners only upon finding
that: (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993; amd. 1997 Code)
      1.   The attention getting device or banner does not create such glare or
distraction that it endangers traffic safety and does not obstruct the view of
traffic signs and traffic signals;
      2.   The applicant will take adequate steps to minimize the visibility of
the attention getting device or banner from residential districts; and
      3.   The attention getting device or banner does not involve a
searchlight.
   D.   Display Time And Number Limited: In no case shall such attention
getting devices or banners be permitted to remain in place for longer than
seven (7) days nor more than on two (2) occasions per season per occupancy.
(Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
9-10-12: STANDARDS FOR WALL SIGNS:
All wall signs shall comply with the following limitations and requirements:
   A.   The sign shall extend no further than twelve inches (12") from the wall
to which it is attached.
   B.   The sign shall be attached to the wall so that the face of the sign is
substantially parallel to the wall.
   C.   The maximum vertical dimension of the sign shall be no greater than
four feet (4').
   D.   No message shall appear on that portion of the sign which extends the
sign from the wall, except for the electrical permit information that may be
required under subsection
9-10-4H of this chapter.
   E.   In commercial districts, the sign shall be no higher than the height of
the building or fifteen feet (15') above curb level, whichever is lower, and
the sign shall be no lower than five feet (5') above the curb level or, if the
sign projects further than three inches (3") from the wall, no lower than seven
feet six inches (7'6") above the curb level.
   F.   If mounted on the lower slope of a mansard roof, the sign shall project
no higher than the uppermost portion of the lower slope. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-
1993)
9-10-13: STANDARDS FOR FREESTANDING SIGNS:
All freestanding signs, except for temporary signs and nameplates for single-
family dwellings, shall comply with the following limitations and requirements:
   A.   A freestanding sign shall have no more than two (2) sign faces, with no
more than one sign face per side (or limited to a single sign).
   B.   There shall be no more than one such sign on the property; except, that
a shopping center which occupies ten (10) acres or more of land and which
fronts on two (2) primary roads shall be allowed to have one additional
freestanding identification sign.
   C.   The sign shall be located in the front yard.
   D.   The sign shall not be erected or project within five feet (5') of the
public right of way.
   E.   In commercial districts, the sign consisting of no more than two (2)
sign faces shall be principally supported by one or more posts or other
supports that extend seven feet (7') from grade to the base of the sign face.
   F.   In commercial districts, the sign including supports shall be no higher
than twelve feet (12') above the curb level. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
9-10-14: STANDARDS FOR WINDOW SIGNS:
The total area of all window signs on display at any one time, including window
promotional signs, shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the total area of
the window in which they are located. A series of windows which are separated
by frames and supporting material less than six inches (6") in width shall be
considered as a single window for the purposes of this computation. (Ord. 93-
1856, 1-25-1993)
9-10-15: STANDARDS FOR SUSPENDED SIGNS:
All suspended signs shall comply with the following limitations and
requirements:
   A.   Suspended signs shall be permitted at shopping centers only;
   B.   The sign shall hang no less than eight feet six inches (8'6") above the
sidewalk;
   C.   The sign shall be located in front of the establishment it serves;
   D.   The sign shall not exceed a total surface area of six (6) square feet;
   E.   There shall be no more than one such sign per establishment fronting on
the marquee, overhang or other building feature from which the sign is
suspended; and
   F.   No information shall appear on the sign other than the name of the
establishment or the type of business conducted therein. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-
1993)
9-10-16: STANDARDS FOR CANOPY AND AWNING SIGNS:
All canopy and awning signs shall comply with the following limitations and
requirements:
   A.   The letters or characters of the sign shall appear only on the apron of
the canopy or awning; and
   B.   The letters or characters shall be no more than eight inches (8") from
top to bottom. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
9-10-17: UNIFORM SIGN PLANS FOR SHOPPING CENTERS AND OTHER MULTI-OCCUPANT LAND
USES:
   A.   Permit Required: No sign for a shopping center or other multi-occupant
land use shall be erected until and unless the village has reviewed and
approved a permit for a uniform sign plan for the entire development.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for approval of such a permit
shall be submitted to the department of code enforcement and processed in the
same manner as a sign permit, in accordance with section
9-10-19 of this chapter.
   C.   Restrictions On Issuance: The plan commission shall approve the uniform
sign plan only upon finding that: (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993; amd. 1997 Code)
      1.   The sizes of signs and the materials used in the signs shall be
consistent throughout the property, or shall establish a hierarchy of different
types of signs, with the size and materials of the signs in each category being
consistent for all signs in that category;
      2.   The design of and materials used for the structural elements of the
signs shall be consistent with the design of and materials used for the
building or buildings which the signs serve;
      3.   The surface area of an individual wall sign shall not exceed two (2)
square feet for each one linear foot of building frontage occupied by the
establishment, or one hundred (100) square feet, whichever is less, and where
the establishment erects more than one wall sign, the cumulative surface area
of the wall signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet for each one linear foot
of building frontage occupied by the establishment, or one hundred (100) square
feet, whichever is less; and
      4.   The signs shall conform to all other requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
9-10-18: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES:
It shall be the duty of the department of code enforcement to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter, in conjunction with the village
building code, village electrical code and the village development control
ordinance. In case of conflict in a particular instance between any provision
of this chapter and a provision of the building code or development control
ordinance, the more restrictive provision shall govern. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-
1993; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
9-10-19: PERMIT REQUIREMENT AND PROCEDURE; SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED SIGN PERMIT
FEES:
   A.   Permit Required; Exceptions: No sign shall be erected, converted,
enlarged, reconstructed, structurally altered or rearranged unless the person
proposing such work has received a sign permit. No permit shall be required for
the following; provided, however, that the sign meets all requirements of this
chapter:
      1.   Signs listed in section
9-10-3 of this chapter as allowed in all districts; (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
      2.   Political signs and temporary real estate, temporary personal
celebration and temporary garage sale signs allowed under sections
9-10-9 and
9-10-10 of this chapter; (Ord. 12-2705, 12-17-2012)
      3.   Window promotional signs; or
      4.   Maintaining a sign or changing the copy of a sign where no
structural changes are made. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
   B.   Permits For Temporary Signs: For temporary signage requiring a permit,
each permit will be approved and issued by the department of code enforcement;
provided, that such signage meets all requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 93-
1856, 1-25-1993; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
   C.   Preliminary Conference: (Rep. by Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
   D.   Application For Permit: The application for a sign permit shall be made
in writing, on a form furnished by the department of code enforcement, and
shall include the following information: (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993; amd. Ord.
98-2064, 12-21-1998)
      1.   The name and address of the applicant and the sign contractor who
will be performing the proposed work.
      2.   The location, by street address, of the building or structure to
which the sign is to be attached or the lot on which the sign is to be erected.
      3.   One set of plans and specifications showing the method of
construction, location, support, attachment to the building or ground, method
of illumination and lighting intensity.
      4.   If not included in the plans required above, one sketch showing the
sign faces, exposed surfaces and proposed message, all accurately represented
in scale as to size, proportion and color, and showing, if the sign is to be
attached to a building, the sign on the facade of the building.
      5.   Written consent of the owners of the building or structure to which
the sign is to be attached and/or the land on which the sign is to be erected,
where the owners are not the applicants for the sign permit.
      6.   Any other pertinent data as may be required by the village building
code or permit application to provide for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
   E.   Term Of Permit; Fees: Permits shall be for the life of the sign, or any
shorter period as stated on the approved permit by the department of code
enforcement. However, any permit may be revoked at any time by the department
of code enforcement upon finding that the sign violates any provision of this
chapter or that the permittee made false representations in securing the sign
permit. No fee which the permittee paid for the permit shall be refunded when a
permit is revoked. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993; amd. 1997 Code)
   TABLE 9-10-19: SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED SIGN PERMIT FEES
Sign Type Permit Fee
Sign Type                                                        Permit Fee
Residential districts:                                            
 Identification signs for multiple-family dwellings:             
  Nonilluminated                                               $ 30.00
  Illuminated                                                  50.00
 Identification and changeable copy signs for institutional and  
  other nonresidential uses:
  Nonilluminated                                               30.00
  Illuminated                                                  50.00
 Parking area signs                                             -
Commercial districts:                                             
 Wall signs:                                                     
  Nonilluminated                                               30.00
  Illuminated                                                  50.00
 Freestanding signs                                             50.00
 Suspended signs                                                30.00
 Canopy and awning signs                                        30.00
 Window identification signs                                    30.00
 Parking area signs                                             -
 Temporary signs                                                30.00
 Variation requests                                             300.00
 
   (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
9-10-20: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Continuance Of Nonconforming Sign: Any sign which was lawful at the
time of the enactment of this chapter, or at the time of the enactment of any
amendment hereto, which renders the sign nonconforming, but which does not
comply with all of the regulations of this chapter or any amendment hereto,
shall be deemed a legal nonconforming sign and may be continued only as
provided in this section.
   B.   Maintenance: Normal maintenance of a nonconforming sign may occur
including any necessary repairs and alterations which do not enlarge, extend or
intensify the nonconformity.
   C.   Alteration Or Enlargement: No structural alteration, enlargement or
extension shall be made of a nonconforming sign, except when the alteration is
required by law or will eliminate the nonconforming condition.
   D.   Change To A Conforming Sign: A nonconforming sign shall be made to
conform with the requirements of this chapter whenever there is a change in the
use of the building or structure which the sign serves.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Use Of Nonconforming Sign: Whenever the use of a
nonconforming sign, or the use which the sign serves, has been discontinued for
a period of six (6) consecutive months, or whenever it is evident that there is
a clear intent on the part of the owner to abandon the use of a nonconforming
sign, or the use which the sign serves, then the signs thereafter shall be made
to conform with the provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Damage Or Destruction: If a nonconforming sign is damaged or destroyed
by any means to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of its replacement
value at the time of the damage or destruction (based on prevailing costs),
then the sign thereafter shall be made to conform to the provisions of this
chapter. However, if the damage or destruction is less than fifty percent (50%)
of the replacement value, then the sign may thereafter be restored to its
original condition. In either event, restoration or repair of the sign must
begin within six (6) months after the date of damage or destruction and
diligently pursued to completion, and the repaired or reconstructed sign shall
be made to conform to the village building code and village electrical code in
force at the time of the repair or reconstruction. (Ord. 12-2705, 12-17-2012)
9-10-21: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Intent: The zoning board of appeals may, after a public hearing, vary
the regulations of this chapter in harmony with its general purpose and intent.
Variations shall be granted only in the specific instances, hereinafter set
forth, where the zoning board of appeals makes findings of fact in accordance
with the standards set forth in this chapter, and further, finds that there are
practical difficulties or particular hardships in the way of carrying out the
strict letter of the regulations of this chapter.
   B.   Eligible Petitioners: An application for a variation may be made by any
person or by any office, department, board, bureau or commission with a
proprietary interest in property within the village. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
   C.   Variation Procedures:
      1.   Applications: An application for a variation shall be filed with the
department of code enforcement, who shall forward such application to the
zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-
1998)
      2.   Public Hearings: Public hearings conforming to state statutes shall
be required for all variation applications. Notice of all public hearings shall
be published not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before
said hearing in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the
village.
      3.   Decisions: The zoning board of appeals shall determine the findings
of fact based on the standards established in subsections D and E of this
section.
   D.   Standards For New Signs: With respect to the erection of new signs, a
variation from the provisions of this chapter shall not be granted unless the
board of zoning appeals finds that:
      1.   Strict enforcement of the provision to be varied will create a
demonstrable and irreversible hardship in the applicant's use and enjoyment of
the property which outweighs the benefits to the public of the provision to be
varied;
      2.   The proposed variation would not merely serve as a convenience to
the applicant but will alleviate a hardship not generally applicable to other
properties or persons in similar circumstances;
      3.   The proposed variation will not be materially detrimental to the
use, enjoyment or value of other nearby properties;
      4.   The alleged hardship has not been created by anyone presently having
a proprietary interest in the property; and
      5.   The proposed variation is in harmony with the spirit and intent of
this chapter.
   E.   Standards For Existing Signs: With respect to existing signs, a
variation from the provisions of this chapter shall not be granted unless the
board of zoning appeals finds that:
      1.   Because of the age, cost or unique characteristics of the sign in
question, the strict enforcement of the provision to be varied would impose a
demonstrable and irreversible hardship on the applicant;
      2.   The proposed variation would not merely serve as a convenience to
the applicant but will alleviate a hardship not generally applicable to other
properties or persons in similar circumstances;
      3.   The proposed variation will not be materially detrimental to the
use, enjoyment or value of other nearby properties;
      4.   The alleged hardship has not been created by anyone presently having
a proprietary interest in the property; and
      5.   The proposed variation is in harmony with the spirit and intent of
this chapter. (Ord. 93-1856, 1-25-1993)
CHAPTER 11
SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Definitions
9-11-2: General Provisions
9-11-3: Inspections
9-11-4: Fees
9-11-5: Construction
9-11-6: Filter Systems
9-11-7: Water Supply
9-11-8: Drainage
9-11-9: Electrical Equipment
9-11-10: Heating Equipment
9-11-11: Safety Precautions
9-11-12: Conduct
9-11-13: Responsibility
9-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined as
follows:
PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL: Any "swimming pool", as defined herein, which is used,
or intended to be used, for swimming or bathing in connection with a single-
family residence or dwelling, and available only to the family living on the
premises and its or their private guests.
PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL: Any "swimming pool", as defined herein, including all
appurtenances to its use, normally made available for use by the general
public.
SEMIPRIVATE SWIMMING POOL: A "swimming pool", as defined herein, which shall be
available only to residents of certain occupancies or members of certain clubs
or organizations and their guests, i.e., residents of other than single-family
residences, and members of clubs, lodges or other organizations not open to the
general public.
SWIMMING POOL: Any permanent or temporary artificial pool or receptacle for
water, designed or used for wading, swimming or bathing, installed, constructed
or maintained above or below the surface of the ground or having a perimeter of
more than fifty feet (50') and a depth of more than two feet (2') at any point
(not including those enclosed and located entirely within a building). A
permanent pool is any pool whose structural parts are designed to remain in
place throughout the year. A temporary pool is any pool whose structural parts
or linings are designed to be wholly or in part removed and reassembled each
year. Aboveground swimming pools of plastic, metal or wood construction (or any
combination thereof) are considered to be temporary pools for purposes of this
Chapter.
SWIMMING POOL CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm or corporation who engages in the
business of construction or installation of swimming pools or appurtenances,
filtering systems or equipment thereto.
SWIMMING POOL PLUMBING: All piping, filters and appurtenances used for proper
function of swimming pools. (1978 Code §
5-5-1; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
9-11-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the Department of Code Enforcement
to enforce the provisions of this Chapter. It shall, upon proper application,
grant permits for the construction, installation, enlarging or alteration of
pools and related appurtenances and equipment and make inspections as provided
herein. The Department of Code Enforcement shall keep complete records of all
permits and certificates of use issued, and inspections made and all other
official duties as provided herein. (1978 Code §
5-5-2; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Compliance And Permit Required: All pools constructed, installed,
enlarged or altered subsequent to the adoption of this Chapter must comply with
the provisions of the Development Control Ordinance, building regulations,
plumbing and electrical regulations. It shall be unlawful to proceed with the
construction, installation, enlargement or alteration of any swimming pool or
appurtenances and equipment within the Village unless a permit therefor shall
first have been obtained from the enforcing officer. (1978 Code §
5-5-2; amd. 1997 Code)
      2.   Application For Permit: Application for permit for the construction,
installation, enlargement or alteration of a swimming pool shall be accompanied
by two (2) sets of complete working drawings of permanent quality in sufficient
detail to show the following:
         a.   Plot plan locating all buildings, structures, driveways, property
lines and other descriptive data on the property or within the area.
         b.   Proposed location of pool and pool dimensions, various depths and
volume in gallons.
         c.   Location of recirculation system with size and type of filter
shown.
         d.   Pool piping layout with all pipe sizes shown, type of materials
to be used and the method of filling and draining the pool.
         e.   Rated capacity and head of filtration and backwash flows of the
pumps in gallons per minute with the size and type of motor.
         f.   Piping connections to the Village water mains and sewers.
         g.   All swimming pools, equipment, appurtenances, water supply and
drainage systems shall be constructed, installed, enlarged or altered only in
conformity with approved plans. If any deviations from such approved plans are
to be made, supplementary plans covering those deviations involved shall be
submitted for approval and shall conform to the provisions herein contained.
(1978 Code §
5-5-2)
9-11-3: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authority; Entry Powers; Discontinuance Of Swimming: The Department of
Code Enforcement shall make or cause to be made inspections on all swimming
pools at such time during the construction or installation as is necessary to
inspect all material, appurtenances and equipment. The Department of Code
Enforcement shall have the right to enter any building or premises in the
discharge of its official duties or for the purpose of making inspections or
tests of any swimming pool and/or its appurtenances or equipment contained
thereon. The Department of Code Enforcement shall have the authority to
prohibit the use of any pool where necessary to protect the safety of life,
limb or property and is hereby authorized to disconnect or order discontinuance
of any swimming pool installation or equipment found to be dangerous to life,
limb or property because they are defective or defectively installed. (1978
Code §
5-5-3; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
   B.   Notice Of Defects; Reinspection: If the installation is found to be
incorrectly or defectively installed, the enforcing officer shall notify the
person installing same, advising him of the changes necessary to be made in
order that the same shall conform to the requirements of this Chapter. As soon
as practicable upon receipt of such notification, the person installing the
work shall make the changes ordered, and upon completion thereof shall notify
the enforcing officer to that effect. The enforcing officer shall then
reinspect the work.
   C.   Final Inspection: Immediately upon the completion of the pool and all
its appurtenances and equipment, the person installing the same shall notify
the enforcing officer that such work is ready for final inspection. If all work
is found to be correctly installed and completed, the enforcing officer shall
issue a certificate of use to the owner of such pool. No pool or equipment
shall be used until final inspection has been satisfactorily completed. (1978
Code §
5-5-3)
   D.   Annual Inspection: Each swimming pool shall be subject to an annual
inspection by the Department of Code Enforcement prior to the swimming season.
If the pool is found to conform to the provisions of this Chapter, the
Department of Code Enforcement shall issue the annual certificate of use
permit. (1978 Code §
5-5-3; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
9-11-4: FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: Applicants must pay the following fees before
receiving a permit:
      1.   Construction or alteration permit: $5.00 for each 1,000 cubic feet
or fraction thereof contained within the walls of the swimming pool.
      2.   Annual renewal permit or certificate of use permit:
$10.00 for private pools.
$25.00 for semiprivate pools.
$25.00 for public pools.
   B.   Fees Are Additional: Fees do not include any fees which may be required
for issuance of electrical or plumbing permits. (1978 Code §
5-5-4)
9-11-5: CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Materials Of Construction: The structural quality of materials used in
the construction of swimming pools shall be such as to withstand the forces
exerted by the surrounding earth when the pool is empty, the combination of
forces exerted by earth and water when the pool is filled and the forces of
frost action and freezing of pool water. All public and semiprivate pools shall
be of approved reinforced concrete construction, or equal, and in accordance
with State Sanitary Requirements for Swimming Pools. Private swimming pools
shall be constructed of approved permanently impervious materials which will
retain a smooth finish with no cracks or open joints.
   B.   Height Limit: No permanent or temporary pool shall be constructed more
than four feet (4') in height above grade. Permanent pools may be constructed
without maximum limit as to the below grade dimensions.
   C.   Clearance From Buildings: Clearance between swimming pool and any
building foundation, retaining wall or masonry fence must be a minimum of five
feet (5') and not less than the depth of the pool at a point nearest the
foundation unless the foundation, wall or fence is first properly underpinned
or otherwise protected against settlement. All pools shall be so designed to
provide for existing soil and site conditions, and the conditions of lateral
support.
   D.   Walk Areas: Unobstructed walk areas constructed of concrete shall be
provided around the entire perimeter of the pool, except for temporary pools
with walls more than two feet (2') above grade. All such walks shall be at
least three feet (3') in width and shall pitch away from the pool at least one-
quarter inch (1/4") per foot so as to prevent back drainage to the pool. Where
a diving board is provided, said walk shall extend around such board.
   E.   Interior Finish: All pools shall have a light-colored waterproof
interior finish which is smooth, durable and easily cleaned.
   F.   Pool Linings: If pool linings are used, they shall be free of blisters
and of such thickness, material and construction so as to withstand normal use
without separation, peeling or cracking. Said lining shall be able to withstand
vacuuming without penetration, separation or peeling. (1978 Code §
5-5-5)
   G.   Location: All swimming pools shall be constructed so as to be not less
than six feet (6') from a side or rear lot line, and not less than the
prescribed setback as set forth for the various districts in the Development
Control Ordinance. (1978 Code §
5-5-5; amd. 1997 Code)
9-11-6: FILTER SYSTEMS:
Every swimming pool shall be equipped with an approved filter system as
follows:
   A.   Private Pools:
      1.   The filter system for private pools shall have a sufficient capacity
to provide a complete turnover of the pool water in eighteen (18) hours or
less. A recirculating pump shall be provided with a sufficient capacity to
backwash the filter.
      2.   A hair and lint catcher or strainer shall be installed on the
suction side of the circulation pump to prevent hair, lint and other extraneous
matter from reaching the pump and filters. The hair and lint catcher shall be
designed so that it can be easily dismantled for cleaning and inspection and
shall be so located as to be easily accessible for cleaning. The design
features shall be as follows: water shall pass through the strainer from the
outside; the strainer is to be made of noncorrosive material; the width or
diameter of strainer openings is to be not more than one-eighth inch (1/8");
the area of the strainer opening shall be at least five (5) times the cross-
sectional area of the inlet pipe to the strainer. Every filter system shall be
provided with operating instructions.
   B.   Public and Semi-Private Pools:
      1.   The filter system for public and semi-private pools shall be
equipped with the following:
         a.   A pressure gauge on the influent piping of the filter.
         b.   A pressure gauge on the effluent piping of the filter.
         c.   An automatic valve or continuous air bleed at the top of each
filter.
         d.   A backwash sight glass installed adjacent to the backwash control
valve, if the backwash discharge outlet to the receptor is not readily visible
from the backwash control valve.
         e.   The vacuum inlet fitting shall be located in an accessible
position below the water line.
      2.   Full action gate valves shall be installed to insure proper
functioning of the infiltration and piping system. A valve shall be installed
on the main suction line located in an accessible place, or in a masonry pit
located outside the walls of the pool. Valves up to and including two inches
(2") in size shall be brass. Sizes over two inches (2") may have cast iron or
brass bodies. All working parts, seat and discs of valves shall be of
noncorrosive material.
   C.   Piping:
      1.   Piping from pool to filter system may be of approved nonmetallic
materials with stainless steel clamps at all connections. Galvanized or copper
sleeves shall be used where nonrigid pool piping passes through pool structure.
All fittings exposed to water inside the pool must be of heavy chrome-plated
brass, copper or other approved corrosion-resistant material. Galvanized
fittings are not acceptable.
      2.   The recirculation water pool inlet piping shall be sized and spaced
so as to produce uniform circulation of water throughout all parts of the pool.
There shall be one such inlet for each eight hundred (800) square feet of pool
surface or fraction thereof. Any such piping shall not protrude into the pool
in a manner hazardous to occupants of the pool. Pool piping shall be sized to
permit the rated flows for fittings and backwashing without exceeding the
maximum head at which the pump will provide such flows. The water velocity
shall not exceed ten feet (10') per second. (1978 Code §
5-5-6)
9-11-7: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Village Water To Be Used: The water must be obtained from the Village
water system.
   B.   Filling Pools; Recirculation: The water supply must be permanently and
rigidly piped to permanent swimming pools, with a rigid over-the-rim fill
spout. Temporary pools must be filled from the Village supply system; however,
garden hose or other temporary plumbing devices may be used. The water supply
outlet shall extend over the water and be a minimum of four inches (4") above
the top of the pool. The water recirculation inlet should be installed not less
than ten inches (10") below pool overflow level.
   C.   Equalizer Line: If an equalizer line is used, it shall provide an
adequate amount of make-up water for pump suction in the event the water in the
pool drops below the water level. This pipe shall be at least one and one-half
inches (11/2") in diameter and shall be located at least one foot (1') below
the lowest overflow level of the skimmer. (1978 Code §
5-5-7)
   D.   Disinfection: Any means of germicidal or bacterial control may be used
in private residential swimming pools that have been approved by the State of
Illinois Department of Public Health which would provide equal or better
germicidal or bacterial protection within the pool, equal to a standard of
five-tenths (0.5) parts per million chlorine residual. An adequate testing kit
to determine such residual shall be supplied and kept with each swimming pool.
Gaseous chlorination systems shall not be used as a disinfection method for
private residential swimming pools. (1978 Code §
5-5-7; 1997 Code)
9-11-8: DRAINAGE:
   A.   Drainage System: Waste water shall be discharged through a pump and the
drain shall include positive check or back up valves to prevent the surcharge
of sewer wastes into the swimming pool. Pools shall be drained into the storm
sewer system, if available, or else into the sanitary sewer at a rate not to
exceed ten (10) gallons per square foot of filter area. No pool shall be
drained while it is raining. Public and semi-private pools shall not be drained
without first notifying and obtaining the approval of the enforcing officer.
   B.   Drains: A drain shall be placed at the deepest point in the bottom of
every pool for circulation and emptying contents of the pool. Where the main
drain is also the pump suction line for the filtering system, at least two (2)
main drains must be provided for all pools over thirty feet (30') wide.
   C.   Fittings And Gratings: All outlet fittings and grating shall have a net
open area of at least four (4) times the area of the pipe to which they
discharge. Each drain fitting shall be provided with a sturdy, corrosion-
resistant grating with openings not greater than three-eighths inch (3/8")
wide. Each main drain grating must be securely attached to the drain opening
piping.
   D.   Pitch Of Drainage Pipe: Drainage piping serving gravity scum gutter
drains or deck drains shall be installed with a minimum pitch of one-quarter
inch (1/4") per foot. Deck or other drains shall not be interconnected with any
scum gutter draining piping. Deck drains shall not return water to the swimming
pool or to any part of the filtering, heating or recirculating system.
   E.   Skimming Devices: Skimming devices are permitted on private pools in
lieu of scum gutters, provided adequate handholds are provided. Skimming
devices shall be of such size, number and location so as to adequately remove
floating waste from the surface of the pool, but not less than one skimmer for
each eight hundred (800) square feet of pool surface. Each surface skimmer
shall be automatically adjustable to variations of water level over a range of
not less than four inches (4"). Skimmers shall be constructed or installed so
as to prevent airlock in the suction line. All suction piping must be installed
so as to prevent trapping of air. (1978 Code §
5-5-8)
9-11-9: ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT:
All electrical equipment shall be installed and maintained in accordance with
the provisions of the 1993 National Electrical Code 1 . (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 3 of this Title.
9-11-10: HEATING EQUIPMENT:
Swimming pool water heating equipment shall conform to safe design,
construction and installation requirements for domestic hot water heaters and,
in addition, the following is required:
   A.   An approved high limit control which automatically shuts off the gas
supply. Where this control is of the immersion type, a means of retaining water
in the heater shall be provided.
   B.   An automatic gas shut-off device to provide one hundred percent (100%)
gas shut-off if burner and pilot flame fail. Automatic shut-off must be
provided for complete burner and pilot gas shut-off if liquid petroleum gases
are used for heating. (1978 Code § 5-5-10)
9-11-11: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain a swimming pool except in
compliance with the following regulations:
   A.   Fences; Access Areas:
      1.   All swimming pools shall be enclosed with an effective barrier or
fence or be inaccessible to small children.
      2.   A private swimming pool, or the lot or premises on which it is
located, shall be enclosed with a fence or other structure not less than four
feet (4') in height, minimum, with no openings therein other than doors opening
through such enclosure which shall have self-closing latches located not less
than four feet
(4') from the bottom of such door or gate. Doors of buildings forming a part of
required enclosure need not be so equipped with self-closure.
   B.   Lighting: Sufficient light shall be provided at all pools to enable
swimmers to see and be seen while in and out of the water at all times.
However, when the lighting of a private swimming pool becomes a nuisance past
nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., the owner, operator or lessee of the pool shall be
required to turn the lights off and close the pool until seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. of the next day. Illuminating lights of swimming pools shall be so located
and directed so as to prevent direct rays of light on any adjoining or nearby
residence. No direct rays of light shall be directed into a public street.
   C.   Life Saving Devices: Swimming pools shall be equipped with one or more
throw ring buoys not less than eighteen inches (18") in diameter and fitted
with manila line, or equivalent, not less than one-quarter inch (1/4") in
diameter of sufficient length to equal the diagonal distance of the pool.
   D.   Diving Boards:
      1.   Diving boards or platforms shall not be more than three feet (3')
above water level; except, that pools having a depth of twelve feet (12') or
more in the diving area may have diving boards not to exceed ten feet (10')
above water level. All pools shall be not less than seven feet (7') deep at all
points within eight feet (8') from any diving board or platform.
      2.   Diving boards and platforms three feet (3') or less above water
level shall not extend over the pool edge more than four feet (4'). Proper and
safe location shall be maintained for all diving boards and platforms.
   E.   Protective Cover: A suitable and substantial protective covering shall
be installed on all private pool surfaces during the "off-season" periods when
the pool area is not being used for ice-skating purposes. The protective
covering shall be capable of withstanding five (5) pounds per square foot when
the pool is filled with water.
   F.   Lifeguard: A qualified lifeguard shall be present at all times that
public or semi-private pools are in use.
   G.   Slope Of Pool; Life Line: The slope of the bottom of the pool where the
water is less than five feet (5') deep shall not be more than one foot (1')
vertically in each six feet (6') horizontally, and in pools larger than thirty
feet (30') in width, there shall be securely installed into the walls or
coping, corrosion-resistant fasteners, on opposite sides of the pool, to which
shall be attached life line with floats, which shall not be more than five feet
(5') apart.
   H.   Steps And Ladders: One or more means of egress in the form of steps,
ladders, step-holes or hand-holes shall be provided for all swimming pools.
Treads of steps, ladders or step-holes shall be constructed of a nonslip
material and at least three inches (3") wide for their full length. The coping
of the swimming pool, if not higher than eight inches (8") above the water
surface and made of a nonslip material, shall be considered a handhole. (1978
Code § 5-5-11)
9-11-12: CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued at any swimming pool any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any
noise which annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others. In the operation of a swimming pool the use or
permitting the use or operation of any radio, receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is
necessary for the convenient hearing of the person or persons who are in the
swimming pool premises shall be unlawful. All semi-private and public pools
shall be closed with lights off by ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. each night, unless
express permission for later hours is granted by the President and Board of
Trustees. (1978 Code § 5-5-12)
9-11-13: RESPONSIBILITY:
This Chapter shall not be construed to relieve from, or lessen, the
responsibility of any party owning, operating, controlling, installing or
constructing any swimming pool, appurtenances, equipment or material for damage
to persons or property caused by a defect therein, nor shall the Village or any
officer or employee thereof enforcing this Chapter be held as assuming any such
liability by reason of the inspections authorized herein or certificate of use
issued in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. (1978 Code § 5-5-13)
CHAPTER 12
FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Purpose
9-12-2: Definitions
9-12-3: Necessity For Permit
9-12-4: General Restrictions And Prohibitions
9-12-5: Height Restrictions
9-12-6: Exemptions
9-12-7: Administration And Enforcement
9-12-8: Amendments And Variances
9-12-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To preserve and protect the public health, safety and welfare of the
Village and its residents.
   B.   To ensure that fences, walls and hedges will not interfere with the
safe use of Village streets and roads.
   C.   To provide for accessibility to property within the Village by police,
fire, ambulance and other emergency vehicles and services.
   D.   To establish guidelines for each property owner to provide for privacy,
security and the enhancement of the physical appearance of individual
residences and the community as a whole. (Ord. 82-1619, 4-20-1982)
9-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section:
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, place or affix.
FENCE: Any structure, partition or enclosure composed of wood, iron, metal or
other material which encloses or divides a parcel of land and which does not
otherwise come within the definition of a "wall" as set forth in this Section.
HEDGE: Naturally growing shrubs, bushes and other foliage planted to enclose or
divide a parcel of land.
PERSON: Means and includes any individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
WALL: A permanent structure, partition or enclosure composed of concrete,
masonry, metal, wood, iron or other material for decoration or ornamental
purposes, which encloses or divides a parcel of land, and which is supported by
a continuous foundation below grade. This definition shall exclude retaining
walls which are determined by the Village to support either land or buildings.
Retaining walls shall be required by the Village Building Department for
structural purposes, and the regulation of retaining walls shall be governed by
the Village building code, not by this Chapter.
YARD, FRONT: Shall have the meaning ascribed to that term in the Development
Control Ordinance 1 .
YARD, REAR: Shall have the meaning ascribed to that term in the Development
Control Ordinance.
YARD, SIDE: Shall have the meaning ascribed to that term in the Development
Control Ordinance. (Ord. 82-1619, 4-20-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10, Chapter 2 of the Village Development Control Ordinance.
9-12-3: NECESSITY FOR PERMIT:
No person shall erect or substantially alter a fence or wall in the Village
without having first obtained a permit issued by the Department of Code
Enforcement. In the case of fences and walls which are erected on the property
of another by a commercial organization or business, it shall be the obligation
of that organization or business to obtain the permit. No permit shall be
issued by the Village under this Section until the Department of Code
Enforcement has determined that the proposed fence or wall complies with this
Chapter and with all other applicable laws and ordinances of the Village. (Ord.
82-1619, 4-20-1982; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
9-12-4: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Location: No private fence, wall or hedge shall be erected or planted
on the right of way of any public street, highway, parkway or alley. However,
in A, R-1, R-2 or R-3 Residential Districts, fences and hedges or other
plantings may be constructed or planted up to the edge of the resident's side
of any sidewalks. Where no sidewalk exists, plantings may be placed up to the
curb of the street, but no such planting shall interfere with, obstruct the
view of or create a safety hazard for any motor vehicle being driven, whether
on private property or on a public street. All improvements made by residents
shall be maintained by the resident, and the Village shall have the right to
require the removal of any fence or hedge on a public right of way at no cost
to the Village.
   B.   Materials Of Construction: No fence or wall shall be maintained or
erected if it is constructed with any material which is likely to inflict
bodily harm should a person or animal come in contact with the fence or wall.
Materials covered by this Section include, but shall not be limited to,
electrically charged wires, broken glass and sharp or ragged metal spikes or
spears. Barbed wire may be used only as expressly authorized by subsection
9-12-5A3 of this Chapter.
   C.   Altering Water Flow: No "wall", as defined in this Chapter, which
interrupts, impedes or otherwise alters the natural flow of water shall be
erected in any residential district.
   D.   Barbed Wire: No barbed wire or barbed wire fences shall be erected in
A, R-1, R-2 or R-3 Residential Districts.
   E.   Wind And Stress Resistance: All fences and walls shall be erected in
conformity with the wind and stress resistance requirements of the building
codes, ordinances and laws of the Village.
   F.   Finish Requirements: All fences shall be erected so that their finished
side faces out, and the unfinished side faces the property of the person who
has caused said fence to be erected.
   G.   Maintenance: All fences, walls and hedges shall be maintained in good,
structurally sound repair, and in neat, clean and attractive condition.
   H.   Overhanging Hedges: All hedges shall be planted and maintained so that
the hedge will not overhang or interfere with the use of a public way such as a
sidewalk, alley or street.
   I.   Obstruction Of Traffic: No person shall plant, construct or maintain
upon any land or premises within the village, any hedge, wall, fence or other
structure or object which will interfere with, obstruct the view of or create a
safety hazard for any motor vehicle being driven, whether on private property
or on a public street. (Ord. 82-1619, 4-20-1982)
9-12-5: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Fences And Walls:
      1.   Front Yards; Residential Districts: No fence or wall which exceeds
forty two inches (42") in height above ground level shall be erected in the
front yard of any residential lot in A, R1, R2 and R3 residential districts.
      2.   Side And Rear Yards; Residential Districts: No fence or wall which
exceeds seventy two inches (72") in height above ground level shall be erected
in side yards or in rear yards of any residential lot in A, R1, R2 or R3
residential districts, except as provided for below in this subsection A2. No
fence or wall which exceeds forty two inches (42") in height above ground level
shall be erected within five feet (5') of the exterior side lot line on corner
lots in A, R1, R2 or R3 residential districts. Fences or walls which are set
back more than five feet (5') from the exterior side lot line on corner lots
shall not exceed seventy two inches (72") in height above ground level. Fences
and walls that do not exceed ninety six inches (96") in height above ground
level may be located only in a side yard or a rear yard of a residential lot
which immediately abuts land that is currently occupied and used for multi-
family purposes regardless of its zoning classification or land classified in
the following zoning districts: R4 multiple-family residence district, RB
residential buffer district, R5 continuing care retirement community residence
district, C1 village center commercial district, C2 community shopping
district, O limited office district, ORI office research and limited industrial
district, DT downtown transitional district and MGL municipal and governmental
land district.
      3.   Commercial (Business) Districts: No fence or wall which exceeds
ninety six inches (96") in height above ground level shall be erected on
premises in commercial districts (C1 village center commercial district, C2
community shopping district, O limited office district, ORI office research and
limited industrial district, DT downtown transitional district). The use of
barbed wire is prohibited; except, that the top twelve inches (12") of any
fence or wall along the side or rear lot lines in the commercial districts may
be constructed of barbed wire; provided, that such may not be erected on fences
or walls fronting on any street or on any lot line adjacent to or abutting any
residential lot.
      4.   Municipal And Governmental Land (MGL) District: Fences or walls
which are located in side and rear yards of premises in the municipal and
governmental land (MGL) district shall not exceed ninety six inches (96") in
height above ground level. (Ord. 12-2674, 4-23-2012)
   B.   Hedges:
      1.   Front Yard: No hedge which exceeds forty two inches (42") in height
above ground level shall be planted or maintained in the front yard of any
residential structure in A, R1, R2 and R3 residential districts.
      2.   Side Yards: No hedge which exceeds forty two inches (42") in height
above ground level shall be planted or maintained within five feet (5') of the
exterior side lot line on corner lots in A, R1, R2 and R3 residential
districts. (Ord. 82-1619, 4-20-1982)
9-12-6: EXEMPTIONS:
Fences, walls and hedges legally in existence at the time of adoption of this
chapter which are not in violation of subsection
9-12-4B, G or I of this chapter, and which do not present a safety hazard to
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, and which do not prevent accessibility by
emergency vehicles, but which violate other sections of this chapter may
continue to be maintained and to exist, but may not be replaced if fifty
percent (50%) or more of the fence, wall or hedge is either destroyed or
removed if the replacement would continue the existence of a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 82-1619, 4-20-1982)
9-12-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the village department of code
enforcement to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, the same
to be done in conjunction with the village building code. (Ord. 82-1619, 4-20-
1982; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
   B.   Interpretation; Conflict: The chief building and code official shall
determine the meaning of the provisions of this chapter as such are applied in
any given instance. Said chief building and code official's determination shall
be conclusive and binding on all parties. In case of conflict or inconsistency
between any of the provisions of this chapter and any of the provisions of any
other law or ordinance of the village, compliance with the more restrictive
provisions shall be required. (Ord. 82-1619, 4-20-1982; amd. 1997 Code; Ord.
98-2064, 12-21-1998)
   C.   Noncomplying Fences, Walls And Hedges; Notice, Repair, Improvement Or
Removal By Village: If the code enforcement department determines that any
fence, wall or hedge does not meet the requirements of this chapter, the
department shall order the owner or occupant of the premises to make the
necessary repairs or improvements or to remove the fence, wall or hedge. A
reasonable period of time shall be provided to make the repairs, based upon the
nature, extent and cost of such repairs, improvements or removals. Should the
aforesaid owner or occupant fail to make the requested repairs, improvements or
removal within the time provided, said owner or occupant shall be in violation
of this chapter, and the village shall be authorized to undertake the necessary
repairs, improvements or removal at the expense of said owner or occupant.
(Ord. 82-1619, 4-20-1982; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
9-12-8: AMENDMENTS AND VARIANCES:
   A.   Authorization: The village president and board of trustees, by
ordinance, may vary the regulations of this chapter. In addition, the president
and board of trustees may, upon application, grant a variance from the express
regulations of this chapter, provided the said board makes a finding of fact
that the application of the letter of the regulations of this chapter will
create practical difficulties or particular hardships for the applicant.
   B.   Application For Variation: Applications for variations may be filed by
any person having a proprietary interest in the premises affected. Such
applications for variation shall be filed by the village clerk who shall
forward a copy of same to the president and board of trustees without delay.
The application shall be in such number of copies, be in such form and contain
such information as the village may prescribe from time to time, but shall in
all instances contain the following:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant and the owner of the property
in question;
      2.   The street address of the property in question;
      3.   A concise written statement explaining the nature of the variation
being sought, or the sections of this chapter from which the variation is being
sought, and the extent of compliance with the regulations set forth in the
chapter if the variance is granted; and
      4.   Photographs and/or scale drawings as may be appropriate to explain
the need for the variation. (Ord. 82-1619, 4-20-1982)
   C.   Hearing: The president and board of trustees shall refer the
application to the village zoning board of appeals for the purpose of holding a
public hearing thereon pursuant to the rules for public hearings set forth in
the development control ordinance of the village 1 . Following the hearing, the
zoning board of appeals shall transmit to the president and board of trustees a
written report stating its findings as to the proposed variation and stating
its recommendations for action to be taken by the president and board of
trustees. (Ord. 82-1619, 4-20-1982; amd. 1997 Code)
   D.   Requirements For Granting Variance: A variation from the regulations of
this chapter shall not be granted unless evidence is presented that:
      1.   The proposed variation will not increase the hazard from fire and
other dangers to the property in question or neighboring property, or to
persons occupying the same, and will not prevent accessibility by emergency
vehicles and services;
      2.   The proposed variation will not create a safety hazard to pedestrian
or vehicular traffic, or impair the public health, safety or welfare;
      3.   The proposed variation will not be materially detrimental to other
nearby property;
      4.   Notwithstanding the benefits, the property in question will suffer
some demonstrable hardship if made to conform to the strict letter of this
chapter; and
      5.   The proposed variation is in harmony with the spirit and intent of
this chapter. (Ord. 82-1619, 4-20-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 3 of the development control ordinance.
CHAPTER 13
STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL WORK
SECTION:
9-13-1: Application Of Provisions
9-13-2: Interpretation
9-13-3: Definitions
9-13-4: Permit Time Limit
9-13-5: Permit Renewal Fee
9-13-6: Required Plans And Specifications
9-13-7: Other Application Requirements
9-13-8: Plan Modification
9-13-9: Fencing; Signage
9-13-10: Site Management Standards
9-13-11: Site Management Bond
9-13-12: Foundation Plan And Building Height Certification
9-13-13: Damage To Property
9-13-14: Wastewater Discharge
9-13-15: Safeguards
9-13-16: Limitations On Noise
9-13-17: Weeds And Long Grass
9-13-18: Signs
9-13-19: Vacant Buildings; Windows
9-13-20: Penalties
9-13-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The following standards and conditions shall apply to all work undertaken in
the village pursuant to a permit issued under this title. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-
1995)
9-13-2: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   This chapter shall apply to all work, whether demolition work or
construction work, for which a permit is required under this title.
   B.   In the event of any inconsistency or conflict in the application or
operation of the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of this title,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply and control. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-
1995)
9-13-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION: The completion of, and the making of a request to
the village for inspection of, excavation or the footings for the structure
being constructed.
COMPLETION OF DEMOLITION: Removal of the walls of the first floor above the
foundation of the structure being demolished.
DEMOLITION: The razing and removal of all or substantial portion of a structure
or removal of such portions of a principal structure as to make the structure
uninhabitable or unsafe for human occupancy. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
9-13-4: PERMIT TIME LIMIT:
No permit or approval issued pursuant to this title shall be valid for a period
of more than one year after the date of issuance. Permits for interior
construction may be extended; provided, that all exterior construction has been
completed including final grading. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
9-13-5: PERMIT RENEWAL FEE:
The fee for any renewal or reissuance of any permit or approval shall be the
same as the original cost of such permit or approval. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
9-13-6: REQUIRED PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Every application for a permit shall be accompanied by the following plans and
specifications: (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
   A.   Building Plans And Specifications:
      1.   If the application includes demolition of a principal structure,
then the application shall include building plans and specifications prepared
in compliance with the provisions of this title for any structure to be built
on the subject property.
      2.   If commencement of construction of such structure is not planned to
occur within sixty (60) days after completion of demolition, then the
application shall include a detailed site restoration plan as provided in
subsection B of this section.
      3.   The following regulation shall apply to platted subdivisions that
already exist within the village and that have some public sidewalks serving
residences already constructed therein. As part of any new construction, tear
down development, subdivision, planned development or an addition or renovation
to an existing residence or commercial building, the building plans shall
indicate the location of the required concrete sidewalk to be installed by the
property owner in the public right of way along the street frontage of the
property extending from lot line to lot line where a sidewalk does not
currently exist or if a sidewalk already exists and is in poor condition, as
determined by the director of municipal services, or his designee, the building
plans shall be marked to show that portion of the sidewalk to be replaced as
part of the construction project. The village engineer shall designate the
location and grade of the sidewalk.
The above regulation shall not apply to any tract of land or platted
subdivision that was annexed into the village's corporate boundaries after
November 29, 1948, the adoption date of the village's initial "official plan";
however, for any tract of land or platted subdivision that was annexed into the
village at any time under an annexation agreement that contained a sidewalk
installation plan, the plan shall control and govern the sidewalk installation
for that land and shall take precedence over the above regulation. If the
village approves a total street reconstruction project for a subdivision that
meets the above exemption, the village will engineer a sidewalk installation
plan for the subdivision and present to the village board for consideration the
installation of sidewalks throughout the subdivision or in portions of the
subdivision adjacent to the street reconstruction project. The amount and
payment method by the property owners for the sidewalk (if any) will be decided
by the village board. Upon approval by the village board of the street
reconstruction project that includes such a sidewalk installation plan, the
above exemption as applied to the subdivision would terminate. For purposes of
this section, the Ridgewood subdivision meets the above exemption.
If a subdivision is exempted from the above regulation, a sidewalk may still be
installed by an owner on his or her lot, or a sidewalk system may be installed
throughout some or all of the subdivision, subject to the issuance of the
appropriate village permit. The installation of a sidewalk by one or more
property owners in a subdivision that is exempted from the above regulation
shall not waive the exemption for the other property owners in the subdivision.
The above exemption does not prevent or bar the village from making a
determination that it is in the best interest of the residents of the
subdivision that sidewalks be installed throughout an exempted subdivision. In
accordance with accepted planning techniques and applicable engineering
standards, the above exemptions recognize that, where possible, sidewalks
should be installed on a block by block basis or throughout an entire
subdivision. See also section
8-2-1, "Inspections Required", of this code, and section
10-10-6, "Pedestrian Circulation System", of the development control ordinance.
The sidewalk or pedestrian circulation system shall be constructed in
accordance with the provisions of section
10-10-16, "Engineering Specifications", of the development control ordinance.
(Ord. 09-2527, 2-23-2009)
   B.   Site Restoration Plans And Specifications: If the application includes
demolition of a principal structure, excavation of any type, or if commencement
of construction is not planned to occur within sixty (60) days after completion
of demolition, then the application shall include a detailed site restoration
plan depicting all work required to restore the subject property, within sixty
(60) days after completion of demolition, to a safe, clean condition until
construction of a new structure has commenced, including, without limitation,
backfilling of any excavation, grading, seeding, fencing, stormwater management
and the like.
   C.   Stormwater Management Plans: In addition to all other required plans
and specifications, the application shall include detailed plans and
specifications for stormwater management as detailed in section
10-11-11 of the development control ordinance.
   D.   Accessibility, Parking And Loading Plans:
      1.   The application shall include a separate plan showing the location
of all work affecting, and all parking and loading activities planned to take
place on, public streets, sidewalks and other rights of way. Such plan shall
include, among other things, the location of pavement and sidewalk that may be
affected by the proposed work, the impacts on such pavement and sidewalk, the
proposed location for all parking of contractor and worker vehicles, the
proposed location of any loading or unloading activities (including cement) to
occur within any right of way, the proposed location of the gravel mat
required, proposed fencing or other protective measures and temporary pavement
or other temporary accessibility measures.
      2.   The department of code enforcement will provide the applicant with a
model plan which may be utilized or amended by the applicant.
   E.   Materials And Spoils Storage Plans: The application shall include plans
depicting the proposed location for storage of materials and spoil on the
subject property.
   F.   Dust And Airborne Particulate Control Provisions: The application shall
include provisions for controlling dust and other airborne particles from the
subject property, including, without limitation, a source of water and spraying
equipment and any other measures to be taken to control airborne particles.
(Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
9-13-7: OTHER APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Every application for a permit for the demolition or construction of a
principal structure or comparable construction work shall include all of the
following elements:
   A.   IEPA Approval: If the application includes demolition of a principal
structure and if the Illinois environmental protection agency (IEPA) has
promulgated regulations applicable to such demolitions, then the application
shall include a certificate or letter of approval of the proposed work by the
IEPA or a letter from the IEPA stating that IEPA approval is not required.
(Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
   B.   Certificate Of Insurance: The application shall include a certificate
of insurance establishing that the applicant, or the owner of the subject
property if different from the applicant, has general comprehensive liability
and property damage insurance coverage issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in Illinois in an amount of at least one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence for all personal or bodily injuries,
deaths and damage to property adjoining the subject property resulting from the
proposed demolition, excavation or construction work on the subject property by
the applicant, the owner, or any employee, agent, contractor or subcontractor
of the applicant or the owner. The original certificate of insurance shall
identify the adjacent property owners and the "village of Western Springs, its
former and current appointed and elected officials, officers, village president
and trustees, employees, agents, engineers, attorneys, volunteers and
representatives" as additional insureds and a copy of the original certificate
of insurance shall be provided to the director of building and development
prior to issuance of any demolition, excavation or building permit. The
insurance coverage shall remain in effect until thirty (30) days after a final
occupancy permit is issued. Any renewal certificates shall be provided by the
applicant or owner to the director of building and development prior to the
expiration of coverage. The applicant or its insurer shall provide a copy of
the insurance policy and any endorsements to the director of building and
development, or his designee, within fifteen (15) days of a written request.
(Ord. 04-2303, 6-28-2004)
9-13-8: PLAN MODIFICATION:
No person shall cause or allow any modification from the approved plans and
specifications for any work unless amended plans and specifications showing all
proposed changes are first filed with the village and approved by the
department of code enforcement. If any modification involves an increase in the
total cost of the proposed work, then a statement to that effect shall be made
and all necessary additional fees shall be paid before any approvals are made.
(Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
9-13-9: FENCING; SIGNAGE:
The following requirements apply to all demolitions, the construction of a new
principal structure, an addition to a principal structure involving an
expansion of the building footprint or any substantial excavation of property
(as determined by the director of building and development):
   A.   Fencing: If the permit authorizes demolition or the construction of a
new principal structure or an addition to a principal structure involving an
expansion of the building footprint or substantial excavation, then the
applicant shall cause a six foot (6') high, cyclone type safety fence to be
installed and maintained around the perimeter of the subject property, in a
location and manner approved by the department of building and development. The
fencing shall be installed not more than seven (7) days nor less than four (4)
days before commencement of any work on the subject property. In addition to
such perimeter fencing, the applicant shall cause safety fencing to be
installed around every tree in the parkway abutting the subject property. If
placement of tree fencing is not feasible at the drip line of the tree, then
such fencing shall be installed in a location approved by the department of
building and development. In the case of any other construction project, when
the director of building and development determines that such fencing is
required to protect the public safety, then such fencing shall be required.
   B.   Signage For Demolitions And Excavations: If the village issues a permit
authorizing demolition or excavation activities for a property, then the
applicant shall post on the property a village approved temporary sign
providing notice of the intended demolition or excavation activity. The
applicant shall obtain the temporary sign from the department of building and
development and shall post the sign not less than seven (7) days before the
start of the demolition or excavation activities and shall remove the sign and
return it to the department of building and development no later than three (3)
days after said activities are completed. The applicant shall pay a thirty
dollar ($30.00) nonrefundable fee for the sign and shall be responsible for the
replacement cost of the sign in the event it is damaged, lost or stolen. (Ord.
04-2303, 6-28-2004)
9-13-10: SITE MANAGEMENT STANDARDS:
The following site management standards shall apply to all work:
   A.   Accessibility, Parking And Loading Standards: No pavement or sidewalk
within any public right of way shall be unavailable for public use at any time
except when such pavement or sidewalk is removed and replaced. No such pavement
or sidewalk that is removed and replaced shall be out of service for more than
three (3) days. The department of code enforcement may permit the use of
asphalt or slurry concrete as an interim to permit safe pedestrian passage. No
parking, loading or storage of demolition debris, spoil or construction
materials shall be permitted within any right of way, on any public property,
or within three feet (3') of any right of way or adjacent public or private
property unless specifically approved by the village and shown on approved
accessibility plans as required by subsection
9-13-6D of this chapter. The village may forbid parking in any particular
location if it negatively impacts adjacent properties. All uses of vehicles
shall comply with title 7 of this code related to parking and operation of
vehicles. (Ord. 04-2303, 6-28-2004)
   B.   Particulate Control: Airborne particles shall be controlled at the
subject property at all times during work by means of a water truck and
spraying equipment or other water source capable of spraying and thoroughly
saturating all portions of the structure and surrounding property affected by
the work. Such spraying shall be undertaken at all times necessary to
thoroughly control the creation and migration of airborne particles, including,
without limitation, dust from the subject property.
   C.   Gravel Mat: When determined by the department of code enforcement to be
appropriate and practicable, the applicant shall cause a gravel mat to be
installed on the subject property of a size and in a location sufficient to
wash down all vehicles used on the subject property and to cause dirt and mud
to be removed from the tires of such vehicles. The gravel mat shall be located
so as not to interfere with any use by the public of public rights of way and
not to cause any nuisance or inconvenience to adjacent public or private
property.
   D.   Sanitation Facilities: One such portable toilet shall be provided at
every site of construction of a new principal structure, or any other
construction where indoor sanitation facilities are not provided, not later
than immediately after completion of excavation of the foundation of the new
structure. The proposed location of any portable toilet shall be depicted on
plans submitted at the time of application for the review and approval of the
department of code enforcement.
   E.   Litter Control And Cleanup: Litter and debris at the subject property
shall be controlled at all times. The applicant is responsible to assure that
no litter or debris leaves the subject property and that all litter and debris
is removed from the subject property before the end of every day, including
weekends and regardless of whether work was conducted that day on the subject
property.
   F.   Street And Sidewalk Cleaning: The applicant shall cause all dirt, mud,
gravel and other debris from the subject property or related to any work
conducted on the subject property to be cleaned at least every day, or more
often upon notification by village officials, from all public sidewalks and
streets adjoining and in the area of the subject property.
   G.   No Trespass: No permit issued pursuant to this title shall authorize or
shall be construed to authorize any entry onto property adjoining the subject
property or any work for which entry onto property adjoining the subject
property is or may be necessary, unless a proper right of entry has been
secured from the owner of such property.
   H.   Storm Water Management: Storm water shall be managed during all phases
of demolition and new construction in accordance with the requirements of title
10 of this code.
   I.   Street Openings: Repairs to pavement shall be completed within thirty
(30) days following the opening of a street to the specifications of existing
adjacent pavement. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
   J.   Posted Notice Of Rules And Regulations: The applicant shall post on the
subject property in a prominent place a sign containing notice of the rules and
regulations applicable to demolition and construction work. Such sign shall be
posted not less than four (4) days nor more than seven (7) days in advance of
the commencement of demolition. Such sign shall be maintained on the subject
property until all work on the subject property has been completed and approved
or until removal is approved by the department of code enforcement. The size,
shape, color, and message of such sign shall be as required by the department
of code enforcement. (Ord. 97-2005, 4-28-1997)
   K.   Dumpsters: Dumpsters utilized during the cleanout, demolition or
construction phases of a building project shall conform to title 3, chapter 6,
article B of this code. Dumpsters shall not be located in the public right of
way. Only one dumpster is permitted on a residential site at any time. Filled
dumpsters shall be removed from the site within forty eight (48) hours. In no
case shall a dumpster be utilized as a transfer station for construction debris
or other materials for multiple construction sites. (Ord. 00-2145, 10-9-2000)
9-13-11: SITE MANAGEMENT BOND:
   A.   Bond Requirement; Timing Of Payment; Amount: If the permit to be issued
pursuant to this title authorizes demolition of a dwelling or construction
work, then the applicant shall post in cash with the village, at the time of
issuance of such permit, a site management bond. Such bond shall be in addition
to all other application and processing fees, costs, escrows, bonds and
performance securities required by this code. The amount of the site management
bond shall be calculated as follows:
 
                                      $3,000.00 minimum or 3 percent of
                                      construction of a new principal
1. Demolition or construction        structure costs, whichever is greater
                                      (with a cap of $15,000.00 for single-
                                      family residential construction)
                                      $1,000.00 minimum or 3 percent of
2. Additions with foundation         construction costs, whichever is
                                      greater
                                      $1,000.00 minimum or 2 percent of
3. Additions without foundation      construction costs, whichever is
                                      greater
4. Demolition or construction of an   $800.00 minimum or 2 percent of
accessory structure                  construction costs, whichever is
                                      greater
5. Street openings, water or sewer   $800.00
work within the public right of way
 
(Ord. 04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
   B.   Application Of Bond: The site management bond shall be held by the
village and shall be applied as provided in this section.
   C.   Village Right To Draw On Bond: The village shall have the right at all
times, at its option, to draw on the site management bond to cover the costs to
repair public property damaged by contractors as well as other costs,
including, without limitation, legal fees and administrative expenses, incurred
or estimated to be incurred by the village in exercising any of its rights
under this code in the event: 1) the applicant undertakes any work in violation
of any provision of this code or of any permit issued or plan approved pursuant
to this code, or 2) the applicant fails or refuses to complete any work
authorized by any permit issued under this code in accordance with all plans
approved in connection with said permit. The village's determination of such
costs shall be based either on costs actually incurred by the village or on the
village's reasonable estimates of costs to be incurred.
   D.   Replenishment Of Bond: If the village draws on the site management
bond, then the applicant shall replenish the bond to the full amount required
by this section within fifteen (15) days after demand is made to the applicant
in writing by the village. Failure of the applicant to replenish the bond shall
result in cancellation of the related permit, which permit shall not be
reissued except after the filing of a new application, payment of the permit
fee and establishment of a new site management bond.
   E.   Return Of Unused Bond: The village shall return any unused portion of
the site management bond to the applicant, without interest, according to the
following schedule:
      1.   If the permit authorizes only demolition work, and no construction
work is scheduled to take place within sixty (60) days after completion of
demolition, then the village shall return the bond within thirty (30) days
after final inspection of the restoration of the subject property and approval
of the work by the department of code enforcement.
      2.   If the permit authorizes any work in addition to demolition work,
then the village shall return the money within thirty (30) days after issuance
of a final certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
      3.   A street opening escrow of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or a
site management bond of not less than the same value shall be submitted to the
village for each street opening or any construction which may include a street
opening and shall be held for a period of one year following the installation
of the patch.
      4.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) or a site management bond of not less
than the same value shall be submitted to the village for work within the
public right of way (other than street openings) and shall be returned within
six (6) months after final inspection of the restoration of the public right of
way and approval of the work by the director of building and development. (Ord.
04-2302, 6-28-2004, eff. 7-1-2004)
9-13-12: FOUNDATION PLAN AND BUILDING HEIGHT CERTIFICATION:
   A.   Foundation Plan: After construction of the foundation of any new
building, and before any other work is commenced on such building, any person
undertaking such work shall submit an as built spotted survey foundation plan
to the village showing top of foundation elevations and setbacks from property
lines. Such survey shall be approved by the department of building and
development before the commencement of any such other work.
   B.   Building Height Certification: After the installation of the roof
structure, any person undertaking such work shall submit to the department of
building and development an as built survey showing the roof structure
elevations and identifying the actual roof heights as measured from the lowest
point of the grade at the front yard curb line of the property and maximum
building height of the building under construction. The roof heights and
maximum building height of the building listed on the survey shall be certified
by a professional engineer, who shall sign the survey. The survey shall be
reviewed and approved by the department of building and development at the time
of the rough framing inspection. When the building plans on file with the
village show that the maximum building height for the new building is at least
five feet (5.00') lower than the applicable maximum building height regulation,
the property owner shall be exempt from this building height certification
requirement, unless the director of building and development deems the survey
to be necessary to ensure compliance with the height regulations. (Ord. 04-
2303, 6-28-2004)
9-13-13: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
No person engaged in any work pursuant to a permit issued under this title
shall injure, damage or destroy, or cause or allow to be injured, damaged or
destroyed, any property, whether public or private, not owned by such person.
In the event of any injury, damage or destruction in violation of this
provision, it shall be the duty of the person committing, inflicting, causing
or allowing such injury, damage or destruction to promptly repair and restore
the injured, damaged or destroyed property and to pay all of the costs and
expenses of such repair and restoration. For purposes of this provision, a
person shall be deemed to have caused or allowed injury, damage or destruction
whenever that person, or any contractor, subcontractor, agent or employee of
that person shall have committed or inflicted such injury, damage or
destruction or whenever any work being done by that person, or any contractor,
subcontractor, agent or employee of that person, shall have resulted in such
injury, damage or destruction. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
9-13-14: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE:
No person shall undertake any work pursuant to a permit issued under this title
from which the discharge of any wastewater will be caused or associated without
prior approval of the department of code enforcement. It shall be the duty of
the person undertaking any such work to direct all wastewater flow to the
particular location designated by the department of code enforcement. No person
undertaking such work shall cause or allow any cement truck wash to be
discharged onto any public property or into any catch basin or other village
sewer facility. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
9-13-15: SAFEGUARDS:
All persons undertaking work pursuant to a permit issued under this title shall
exercise proper care for the safety of all persons and property. Warnings,
barricades and lights shall be maintained when required by the department of
code enforcement and/or department of public works for the protection of
pedestrians or vehicular traffic. Temporary roofs over sidewalks and all other
public rights of way shall be constructed whenever there is danger to
pedestrians from falling articles or materials. All such safety devices,
including barricades and fences required pursuant to this code or section 3304
of the BOCA basic building code, shall be subject to the approval of the
department of code enforcement. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
9-13-16: LIMITATIONS ON NOISE:
All work undertaken pursuant to a permit issued under this title shall be
subject to the provisions of title 5, chapter 2 of this code related to
limitations on noise. Further, no person shall operate or cause to be operated
any radio, phonograph, telecommunications device or other such object at such a
volume or in any other manner that would cause a nuisance or a disturbance to
any person. Every contractor and every permittee shall be responsible for all
actions of their employees, agents and subcontractors hereunder, and shall be
liable for all violations of the provisions of this section committed by such
employees, agents or subcontractors. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
9-13-17: WEEDS AND LONG GRASS:
All persons undertaking work pursuant to a permit issued under this title shall
maintain the subject property in compliance with the standards of section
5-1-2 of this code related to the control of weeds and long grass. (Ord. 95-
1950, 9-25-1995)
9-13-18: SIGNS:
No person shall erect or maintain any sign except in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995)
9-13-19: VACANT BUILDINGS; WINDOWS:
The following standards shall apply to all commercial property located on the
first or ground floor:
   A.   Window Displays: Any commercial property located on the first or ground
floor that remains vacant for more than thirty (30) days must, within thirty
(30) days from the initial vacancy, erect a decorative window display depicting
a cultural, educational, historical, municipal or other community related theme
in all windows facing the street, public right of way or any sidewalk. Any
decorative window display shall have as its backdrop a screen, blind, curtain,
partition, or some other article preventing a clear view into the interior of
the property. The village will cooperate in facilitating compliance with this
requirement, if requested, and will provide guidance as to appropriate themes.
   B.   Construction Vacancies: Any commercial property located on the first or
ground floor that will be vacant due to construction on the property and where
a valid building permit has been obtained and is displayed must, within thirty
(30) days from the initial vacancy, either erect window displays pursuant to
subsection A of this section, or erect temporary backdrops in all windows,
consisting of either screens, blinds, curtains, partitions, or other articles
preventing a clear view into the interior of the property.
   C.   Actions Prohibited: No windows of any vacant commercial property shall
be covered with butcher block paper or black paper, plastic garbage bags or
similar material and no soaping of windows shall be permitted.
   D.   Signs: All signs on vacant commercial properties must be maintained in
good order, and shall comply with all provisions of chapter 10 of this title
and any exterior business signs and window signs relating to a closed business
must be removed within thirty (30) days of the closing of the business. Any
signs yellowed or damaged from excessive age or exposure to sunlight, heat,
cold or water or other liquids shall be removed immediately. In addition, "For
Lease" signs and signs advertising future tenants shall be permitted to be
displayed on vacant commercial properties, subject to the same conditions and
provided they contain clear and accurate contact information. (Ord. 07-2439, 4-
23-2007)
9-13-20: PENALTIES:
The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be grounds for revocation
of any permit or approval pursuant to which the work in question is being
undertaken, or for the issuance of a stop order pursuant to chapter 9 of this
title. (Ord. 95-1950, 9-25-1995; amd. Ord. 07-2439, 4-23-2007)
CHAPTER 14
LIFE SAFETY CODE
SECTION:
9-14-1: Adoption Of Life Safety Code
9-14-2: Amendments To Code
9-14-1: ADOPTION OF LIFE SAFETY CODE:
The village has adopted by ordinance and incorporated by reference into this
chapter as the life safety code of the Village of Western Springs, Cook County,
Illinois, the code entitled the NFPA 101, life safety code, 2018 edition, as
published by the National Fire Protection Association, except as amended in
this chapter or by the publisher. Three (3) copies of the NFPA 101, life safety
code, 2018 edition, and all of its regulations are on file in the office of the
village clerk and are kept available for public use, inspection and examination
in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-
2014; amd. Ord. 22-3098, 9-26-2022)
9-14-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the Life Safety Code, 2018 edition, are amended as
follows:
Installation of fire alarm, fire sprinkler and knox box requirements as set
forth at Section 9-2-4 (Amendments to International Building Code) of the
Municipal Code of Western Springs, as revised from time to time, are
incorporated by reference in their entirety into this chapter, except for the
“Violation; Fines And Penalties” provision, which cannot be adopted by
reference and must be specifically adopted within this chapter as required by
state law:
Violation; Fines And Penalties: Any person who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation for each day that the violation continues,
and each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense
subject to a separate penalty. Such a fine shall be in addition to any other
fee or charge authorized pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014; amd. Ord. 22-3098, 9-26-2022)
CHAPTER 15
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
9-15-1: Adoption Of Fuel Gas Code
9-15-2: Amendments To Code
9-15-1: ADOPTION OF FUEL GAS CODE:
The village has adopted by ordinance and incorporated by reference into this
chapter as the fuel gas code of the village of Western Springs, Cook County,
Illinois, the code entitled the international fuel gas code, 2006 edition, as
published by the International Code Council (ICC), except as amended in this
chapter or by the publisher. Three (3) copies of the international fuel gas
code, 2006 edition, and all of its regulations are on file in the office of the
village clerk and are kept available for public use, inspection and examination
in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-
2014)
9-15-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the international fuel gas code, 2006 edition, are
amended as follows:
Violation; Fines And Penalties: Any person who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation for each day that the violation continues,
and each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense
subject to a separate penalty. Such a fine shall be in addition to any other
fee or charge authorized pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 16
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
9-16-1: Adoption Of Energy Conservation Code
9-16-2: Amendments To Code
9-16-1: ADOPTION OF ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
The village has adopted by ordinance and incorporated by reference into this
chapter as the energy conservation code of the village of Western Springs, Cook
County, Illinois, the code entitled the international energy conservation code,
2012 edition, as published by the International Code Council (ICC), except as
amended in this chapter or by the publisher. Three (3) copies of the
international energy conservation code, 2012 edition, and all of its
regulations are on file in the office of the village clerk and are kept
available for public use, inspection and examination in accordance with 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
9-16-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the international energy conservation code, 2012
edition, are amended as follows:
Violation; Fines And Penalties: Any person who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation for each day that the violation continues,
and each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense
subject to a separate penalty. Such a fine shall be in addition to any other
fee or charge authorized pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 17
GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THIS TITLE
SECTION:
9-17-1: Interpretation Of Codes And Provisions
9-17-2: Resolution Of Conflicts Among Codes And Provisions
9-17-3: Incorporated Codes; Substitution Of Terms
9-17-4: Eligibility For Village Approvals, Certificates, Licenses And Permits
If Debt Owed To Village
9-17-1: INTERPRETATION OF CODES AND PROVISIONS:
The chief building and code official of the village, or his/her designee, shall
determine the meaning of the provisions of all chapters and provisions in those
chapters as contained in this title as such are applied in any given instance.
Said chief building and code official's determination shall be final and
binding on all parties. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-2014)
9-17-2: RESOLUTION OF CONFLICTS AMONG CODES AND PROVISIONS:
In case of conflict or inconsistency between any of the provisions in any
chapter or among provisions from different chapters within this title or
conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of any chapters within this
title and any of the provisions of any other law or ordinance of the village,
compliance with the more restrictive provisions shall be required. (Ord. 14-
2767, 10-27-2014)
9-17-3: INCORPORATED CODES; SUBSTITUTION OF TERMS:
Where codes have been adopted and incorporated by reference, the words "village
of Western Springs" or "village" shall be substituted for words referring to
the applicable municipality or governmental jurisdiction. (Ord. 14-2767, 10-27-
2014)
9-17-4: ELIGIBILITY FOR VILLAGE APPROVALS, CERTIFICATES, LICENSES AND PERMITS
IF DEBT OWED TO VILLAGE:
See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Title 9 (Building
Regulations). (Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022)
TITLE 10
DEVELOPMENT CONTROL ORDINANCE
This development control ordinance of the Village of Western Springs, as
supplemented, contains ordinances up to and including ordinance 22-3093, passed
August 15, 2022. Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance
supersede the provisions of this development control ordinance to the extent
that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Village office
in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the development
control ordinance has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose And Intent
10-1-3: Applicability
10-1-4: Transition Rules
10-1-5: Severability
10-1-6: Effective Date
10-1-7: Penalties
10-1-1: TITLE:
The ordinance codified in this title shall be known, cited and referred to as
the WESTERN SPRINGS DEVELOPMENT CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The ordinance codified in this title is adopted:
   A.   To promote the orderly and beneficial development of the village of
Western Springs in accordance with the village's official land use plan;
   B.   To promote the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general
welfare of the citizens of the village of Western Springs;
   C.   To protect the character and stability of residential, business and
industrial areas;
   D.   To provide for orderly growth and development; to afford adequate
facilities for the safe, convenient, and efficient means for the traffic
circulation of its population; and to safeguard the public against flood
damage;
   E.   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   F.   To divide the village of Western Springs into districts of such number,
shape, area and of such different classes, according to the use of land and
buildings and the intensity of such use, as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the purposes of this ordinance;
   G.   To prohibit locations and uses of buildings or structures and uses of
land that are incompatible with the type of development planned for specified
zoning districts in the village of Western Springs;
   H.   To regulate and restrict the location and use of buildings, structures
and land for trade, industry, residence, and other uses, and to regulate and
restrict the intensity of such uses;
   I.   To prescribe reasonable rules and regulations governing the subdivision
and platting of land; the preparation of plats; the location, width, and course
of streets and highways; the installation of utilities, street pavements, and
other essential improvements; and the necessary public grounds for schools,
parks, playgrounds, and other public open spaces;
   J.   To prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling to existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed hereunder;
   K.   To protect against fire, explosions, noxious fumes and other dangers;
   L.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings and structures shall
conform;
   M.   To provide for the gradual elimination of those uses that would not now
be permitted in the districts in which they are located and are adversely
affecting the orderly and beneficial development of the village of Western
Springs;
   N.   To define and limit the powers and duties of administrative officers
and bodies as provided herein; and
   O.   To prescribe penalties for the violation of and methods for the
enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance or any amendment thereto. (Ord.
92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Territorial Application: This development control ordinance shall apply
to all land, uses, buildings and structures within the village of Western
Springs, and the subdivision regulations (chapter 10) of this ordinance shall
apply to unincorporated lands within one and one-half (11/2) miles from village
corporate boundaries. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   B.   General Application: After December 14, 1992, the effective date
hereof, all subdivision of land, all buildings, structures and uses of land
erected, remodeled, altered or relocated, and all public improvements must
comply with the provisions of this development control ordinance. All property
owners or users of property must comply with the requirements of this
ordinance, and shall be required to apply for any zoning approvals, permits,
variances or exemptions in order to bring any land, uses of land, buildings,
structures, or improvements into conformance with this ordinance. Existing
buildings, structures and uses of land that do not comply with the regulations
of the development control ordinance are subject to chapter 9, "Nonconformity",
of said ordinance. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
   C.   General Prohibition: No buildings, structures, or use of land and no
lot of record or zoning lot existing or hereafter established shall be
established, altered, moved, divided or maintained except in accordance with
the provisions of the development control ordinance.
   D.   Private Agreements: This development control ordinance is not intended
to nullify any private agreements, provided that where there is a conflict
between such private agreement and the development control ordinance and the
development control ordinance is more restrictive, the development control
ordinance shall control. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   E.   Other Laws And Regulations: Unless otherwise specifically provided, the
development control ordinance shall control over less restrictive statutes,
ordinances or regulations and more restrictive statutes, ordinances or
regulations will control over the provisions of the development control
ordinance. The board of trustees may grant a variation or an exemption from any
of the requirements of the development control ordinance, or from any village
policy or practice, in order to avoid violating a person's freedom of religion
based rights afforded by any federal or state law, in accordance with the
variation or exemption procedures set forth in this ordinance. (Ord. 01-2167,
5-21-2001)
10-1-4: TRANSITION RULES:
In determining the applicability of this ordinance with respect to the
previously applicable zoning regulations, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Existing Unlawful Uses And Structures: A structure or use not lawfully
existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance is hereby deemed lawful
as of the effective date hereof, provided that it conforms with all of the
requirements of this ordinance. However, if such structure or use does not
conform with all of the requirements of this ordinance, such structure or use
remains unlawful hereunder.
   B.   Existing Permitted Uses: When a lot is used for a purpose that was
classified as a permitted use prior to the effective date hereof, and such use
is classified as a "conditional use" by this ordinance, such use is hereby
deemed a lawful conditional use for the purpose of this ordinance.
   C.   Principal Uses Rendered Nonconforming: When a lot is used for a purpose
which was a lawful use before the effective date hereof and this ordinance, or
any amendment thereto, no longer classifies such use as either a permitted use
or conditional use in the zoning district in which it is located, such use is
hereby deemed a legal nonconforming use and shall be controlled by the
provisions of chapter 9, "Nonconformity", of this ordinance.
   D.   Principal Buildings, Structures And Lots Rendered Nonconforming: Where
any lawful building, structure or lot existing on the effective date hereof
does not meet all standards set forth in this ordinance, or any amendment
thereto, such building, structure, or lot is hereby deemed nonconforming and
shall be controlled by the provisions of chapter 9, "Nonconformity", of this
ordinance.
   E.   Accessory Uses Rendered Nonconforming: When a use that is accessory to
a principal use which was a lawful accessory use before the effective date of
this ordinance, or any amendment thereto, and is rendered nonconforming by
virtue the adoption of this ordinance, such accessory use shall be brought into
conformance with this ordinance. However, the following accessory uses shall be
deemed legal nonconforming uses and may be continued in their present form
subject to the provisions of chapter 9, "Nonconformity", of this ordinance:
      1.   Any nonconformity resulting from the requirements of subsections
10-4-7B and D of this ordinance and section
10-4-8, "Off-Street Parking" and "Off-Street Loading", of this ordinance, which
regulate the number and size of off street parking spaces; and
      2.   Any nonconformity resulting from the requirements of section
10-4-9, "Landscape Requirements", of this ordinance.
   F.   Accessory Structures Rendered Nonconforming: When a structure that is
accessory to a principal use was a lawful accessory structure before the
effective date of this ordinance, or any amendment thereto, and is rendered
nonconforming by virtue the adoption of this ordinance, such accessory
structure shall be deemed a legal nonconforming structure and may be continued
in its present form subject to the provisions of chapter 9, "Nonconformity", of
this ordinance.
   G.   Previously Issued Building Permits: When a building permit for a
building or structure has been lawfully issued prior to the effective date
hereof, and when construction has begun within six (6) months of the issuance
of such permit and is being diligently pursued to completion, the building or
structure may be completed in accordance with the plans on the basis of which
the building permit was issued and may, upon completion, be occupied under a
certificate of occupancy for the use originally intended, subject to the
provisions of chapter 4 of this ordinance governing off street parking and
loading.
   H.   Previously Granted Variations: All variations granted prior to the
effective date of this ordinance shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord.
92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   I.   Previously Granted Conditional Use Permits: The conditional use permits
granted by the below listed village ordinances to each of the below listed
properties shall remain in full force and effect after the effective date of
the amendments made to this ordinance by village ordinance 01-2167:
      1.   5129 Wolf Road (village ordinance 95-1939);
      2.   5140 Wolf Road (village ordinance 97-1999); and
      3.   5250 Wolf Road (village ordinance 98-2033). (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-
2001)
10-1-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any of the provisions of this development control ordinance are declared
invalid, the other provisions shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 92-
1855, 12-14-1992)
10-1-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of this ordinance is the date of adoption by the Western
Springs village board, this date being December 14, 1992. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-
1992)
10-1-7: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates, omits, neglects, or refuses to
comply with, or who resists the enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance
shall, upon conviction, be fined no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense. Each day that the violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF WORD USAGE
SECTION:
10-2-1: Word Usage
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: WORD USAGE:
The following rules of word usage apply to the text of this Ordinance:
   A.   The particular shall control the general.
   B.   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of
this Ordinance and any caption, illustration, summary table, or illustrative
table, the text shall control.
   C.   The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word
"may" is permissive.
   D.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used in
the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the singular,
unless the context clearly indicates the contrary; use of the masculine pronoun
shall include the feminine.
   E.   A "building" or "structure" includes any part thereof.
   F.   The phrase "used for" includes "arranged for", "designed for",
"maintained for", or "occupied by".
   G.   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation
involves two (2) or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by
the conjunction "and", "or", or "either...or", the conjunction shall be
interpreted as follows:
      1.   "And" indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply.
      2.   "Or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provision, or
events may apply singly or in any combination.
      3.   "Either...or" indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provision, or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
      4.   The word "includes" shall not limit a term to the specified
examples, but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances or
circumstances of like kind or character. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONMENT: The complete or substantially complete discontinuance of a use,
building or structure.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A subordinate building or structure located on
the same lot with the principal building, occupied by or devoted to an
accessory use, but not to be used for habitation. Where an accessory building
is attached to the principal building in a substantial manner, as by a wall or
roof, such accessory building shall be considered part of the principal
building.
ACCESSORY USE: See Use, Accessory.
ACRE: A measure of land area equal to forty three thousand five hundred sixty
(43,560) square feet.
ADULT BOOK STORE: An establishment having as a substantial or significant
proportion of its stock in trade books, magazines and other periodicals that
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, theater, restaurant or similar establishment
which frequently features live performances by topless and/or bottomless
dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers,
where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas and/or
which regularly feature films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or
other photographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
ADULT THEATER: An establishment which presents the viewing of motion pictures,
films, theatrical productions, video cassettes, slides, and other forms of
visual productions, for any form of consideration, in which a preponderance of
the total presentation time is devoted to showing materials which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein. Adult theater facilities may include but is not
limited to open lots for viewing from a motor vehicle or outdoor eating area;
an enclosed building with private viewing areas for five (5) or fewer people,
or; an enclosed building with viewing areas for more than five (5) people.
ADULT USE: A use which involves either wholly or partially an activity
distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matters depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, including but not limited to, the operation of adult bookstores, adult
cabarets, and adult video stores.
ADULT VIDEO STORE: An establishment having as a substantial or significant
proportion of its stock in trade video cassettes and similar materials which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and the
necessary accessory uses for parking, treating or storing the produce;
provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of the normal agricultural activities.
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented for use in or
designed for navigation of or flight in air.
AIRPORT: Any area of land or water which is used or intended for use for the
landing and taking off of aircraft, and any appurtenant areas which are used or
intended for use for airport buildings or other airport facilities or rights of
way, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas,
hangars, and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
ALLEY: A public or private right of way primarily designed to serve as a
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street.
ALLOWABLE OBSTRUCTION: Any accessory building or structure, including
appurtenances on principal buildings, which is located within a required yard
and is permitted under chapter 4 of this ordinance.
ALTERATION: Any change in size, shape, or character of a building or structure.
AMATEUR RADIO: A type of wireless communication, capable of transmitting as
well as receiving electromagnetic radiation, and whose operator is licensed by
the federal communications commission, and regulated by part 97 of the FCC
rules and regulations.
AMENDMENT: Any addition to, deletion from, or change in this ordinance,
including text and/or map.
AMUSEMENT DEVICES: Any machine or device which, upon the insertion of a coin,
slug, token, plate or disc, may be operated by the public generally by
manipulating special equipment whereby a score is established, the object of
which is to secure a special number or numbers or a total score, whether a
prize is offered or not.
AMUSEMENT ESTABLISHMENT: Any use or establishment with more than eight (8)
amusement devices.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation, or treatment of domestic animals.
ANTENNA, DISH: See definition of Satellite Dish Antenna.
ANTENNA STRUCTURE: A system of wires, poles, rods, or similar devices, external
to or attached to the exterior of a building, together with any supporting
structure, for sending or receiving electromagnetic radiation.
ANTENNA TOWER: Any structure designed for the mounting of an antenna.
APARTMENT: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
APPEAL: A request to review a decision or interpretation of the department of
code enforcement or other authorized official relative to the administration of
this ordinance.
ARBOR: See definition of Trellis.
ASSISTED LIVING UNITS: Any premises within a continuing care retirement
community (CCRC) in which food, shelter and personal assistance or supervision
are provided for a period exceeding twenty four (24) consecutive hours for one
or more adults who are not relatives of the operator and who require assistance
or supervision in matters such as dressing, bathing, diet or medication
prescribed for self- administration, but do not require hospitalization or care
in a skilled nursing facility. An assisted living unit shall be licensed,
operated and maintained in accordance with the laws and regulations of the
state of Illinois.
ATTIC: The space between the ceiling beams of a top habitable story and the
roof rafters.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: The general repair, engine rebuilding or reconditioning of
motor vehicles, collision service such as body, frame and fender straightening
and repair, and painting of motor vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Any building or premises used for dispensing or
sale of automobile fuels, lubricating oil or grease, tires, batteries, or minor
automobile accessories. Services offered may include the changing of motor oil,
installation of tires, batteries and minor accessories, minor automobile
repairs, and greasing or washing of individual automobiles.
AWNING: A rooflike cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall of
a building.
BALCONY: An architectural appurtenance providing usable floor area located
above the first floor that is either entirely unenclosed or covered only by a
roof.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building below the first or ground floor level, and
having less than five feet (5') of clearance from the ceiling to the grade from
which building height is measured. A basement is not considered a story for the
purposes of determining building height.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad, rights of way, shorelines of waterways,
municipal boundary lines, township lines or county lines.
BLOCK FACE: That property on a block having the same frontage onto a public
street.
BOAT: A watercraft of any description used or capable of being used as a means
of transportation on water except a seaplane on the water and inner tubes, air
mattress, or similar device.
BUILDABLE AREA: The area of the lot remaining after the minimum open space and/
or yard requirements of this ordinance have been complied with.
BUILDING: Any structure built, used, designed, or intended for the support,
shelter, protection, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind,
and which is permanently affixed to the land. When a building is divided into
separate parts by unpierced fire or party walls extending continuously from the
ground through all stories to and above the roof, each part shall be deemed a
separate building.
BUILDING COVERAGE: The lot area covered by the principal building(s) and any
roofed over accessory buildings or structures, measured from the exterior faces
of exterior walls, but excluding decks, terraces and other accessory structures
which are open to the sky.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open area on the same lot.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance as measured from the sidewalk level, or
its equivalent established grade, opposite the middle front of the building to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the point of intersection
of the two (2) roof planes of a mansard roof, or to the average height of the
highest gable of a pitch or hip roof. When a penthouse or any similar structure
is located on the roof of a building, the top of the building height shall be
measured to the highest point of said structure. Notwithstanding the foregoing
sentences, the following shall not be considered in determining the height of a
building: mechanical equipment and any wall or similar structure designed
exclusively for the purpose of screening such mechanical equipment from view;
chimneys; railings; and decorative structures such as nonhabitable
architectural building elements, turrets, parapets, widow's walks or cupolas,
provided that such structures and equipment do not have an exterior height in
excess of four feet (4').
In the case of detached accessory buildings or structures, building height is
the vertical distance from the top of floor, slab or existing grade to the
highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or the point of intersection of the
two (2) roof planes of a mansard roof, or to the average height of the highest
gable of a pitch or hip roof.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which it is located.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A building line establishing the minimum allowable
distance between a street right of way and any structure.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: Any building not designed to be permanently located,
placed, or affixed to the place where it is located.
BULK: The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of the buildings or
structures and the location of same with respect to one another, and includes:
   A.   Height and area of buildings.
   B.   Location of exterior walls in relation to lot lines, streets, or other
buildings.
   C.   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot areas (floor area
ratio).
   D.   All open spaces allocated to buildings.
   E.   Amount of lot area required for each dwelling unit.
BUS: A motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying more
than ten (10) persons.
BUSINESS: An occupation, employment, or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor and materials, wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold, or
where services are offered.
CANOPY: A rooflike structure projecting from a wall and supported in whole or
in part by vertical supports from the ground, and erected primarily to provide
shelter from the weather.
CAR WASH: A building, or portion thereof, containing facilities for washing one
or more automobiles at any one time, using production line methods such as a
chain conveyor, blower, steam cleaning device, or other mechanical devices; or
providing space, water, equipment, or soap for the complete or partial cleaning
of such automobiles, whether by operator or by customer.
CARPORT: An open sided (on at least 2 sides), roofed automobile shelter,
usually formed by extension of the roof from the side of a building.
CEILING: The overhead inside lining of a room.
CENTERLINE: The midpoint in the width of a public right of way as established
by recorded plats of survey.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A certificate certifying that the building or
structure, as illustrated on approved plans, conforms to the provisions of this
ordinance and, if constructed and used in conformance with such plans, may be
occupied upon completion of construction.
CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL: An organization of specializing physicians or
dentists or both, who have their offices in a common building. A clinic shall
not include inpatient care.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE (NONPROFIT): A nonprofit association of persons, who are
bona fide members paying dues, which owns, hires, or leases a building, or
portion thereof, the use of such premises being restricted to members and their
guests. The affairs and management of such "private clubs or lodge" are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen
by the members. It shall be permissible to serve food, meals and beverages on
such premises.
COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT: A building or interconnected
group of buildings housing both dwelling units and commercial office, retail or
service uses, for which exceptions from the regulations of the applicable
zoning district ordinance may be granted by the village board upon plan
commission review and recommendation.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: Open space accessible to either the general public or to
multiple owners/tenants. Such space is generally maintained by agreement of
persons utilizing the space.
CONDITIONAL USE: See definition of Use, Conditional.
CONSOLIDATION: The act of combining more than one lot of record, in whole or in
part, into a single lot of record or into multiple lots of record, but fewer in
number than the underlying existing lots of record that are being consolidated.
CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY (CCRC): A planned residential development
intended for individuals sixty two (62) years of age or older or couples at
least one member of which is sixty two (62) years of age or older. The CCRC
shall obtain and maintain a permit to operate as a "life care CCRC" as defined
by the state of Illinois department of public health. The CCRC shall be
distinguished from other forms of residential development by the fact that it
shall include a licensed nursing home facility as an integral part of the
development and the CCRC shall obtain and maintain a certificate of need
approval for the nursing home facility from the state of Illinois. The licensed
nursing home facility shall be developed and created in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the Illinois administrative code as such provisions
are administered and enforced by the relevant agencies and shall be licensed,
operated and maintained in accordance with the laws and regulations of the
state of Illinois. The CCRC shall also provide facilities for varying degrees
of assisted living for residents and other such accessory uses that may be
appropriate for a CCRC and each of these other facilities, to the extent
required by law, shall be licensed, operated and maintained in accordance with
the laws and regulations of the state of Illinois. The form of business
structure of the development, i.e., rental, endowment, condominium, etc., is
irrelevant to a determination that it is a CCRC. However, the owner or operator
of a CCRC (and any successor owners or operators) as well as the owner (and any
successor owners, lessees or occupants) of the land on which the CCRC is built
and operated shall remain subject to real estate taxation and shall not
petition or seek real estate tax exempt status for the land.
CONTRACTORS' OFFICE: A room or group of rooms used for construction
contractors' business affairs that does not use any exterior storage area.
CONVALESCENT, NURSING OR REST HOME: An establishment for the care of the aged
or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders. Such home
does not contain equipment for surgical care or for the treatment of disease or
injury.
CUL-DE-SAC: A short street ending in a turnaround design and intended as a
permanent terminus.
CULINARY SCHOOL: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public as a place where education and hands on instruction regarding
the preparation and cooking of meals and desserts takes place as well as the
occasional service of complete meals prepared as part of such culinary program
on the licensed premises, with an adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and with adequate staff to instruct the patrons in the preparation
and service of meals and desserts.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of a building measured
at the center of such front. (Where no curb elevation has been established, the
pavement elevation at the street centerline similarly measured, or the mean
elevation of the finished lot grade immediately adjacent to a building shall be
considered the curb "level".)
DAY: As used in this ordinance, shall mean one calendar day. If a projected day
falls on a weekend or holiday, the next following working day or weekday shall
fulfill requirements.
DAYCARE CENTER: An institution or place in which are received three (3) or more
children, not of common parentage, apart from their parent or guardian, for
part or all of the hours between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. The term "daycare center" includes, but is not limited to, the
following: nursery schools, childcare centers, day nurseries, kindergartens and
play groups, but does not include bona fide kindergartens or nursery schools
operated by public or private elementary or secondary school systems.
DAYCARE, HOME: A family home which receives more than three (3) and up to a
maximum of eight (8) children, for part or all of the hours between six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., where tuition, fees, or other forms
of compensation for the care of children is charged. The maximum of eight (8)
children includes the family's natural or adopted children and all other
persons under the age of fourteen (14). The term does not include facilities
which receive only children from a single household. Daycare homes should meet
all applicable village and state requirements.
DECK: An accessory structure which is elevated from ground level and is open to
the sky.
DEPARTMENT OF CODE ENFORCEMENT: The enforcing department of the provisions of
this ordinance.
DEVELOPER: Any person seeking to build upon or develop land in the village of
Western Springs.
DIGITAL SATELLITE STATION: A small, satellite dish (not more than 24 inches in
diameter) that has been designed for the purpose of receiving electromagnetic
radiation.
DISTRICT: A portion of the corporate area of the village, within which certain
uniform regulations and requirements, or various combinations thereof, apply
under the provisions of this ordinance.
DORMITORY: A building or part of a building containing a room or rooms forming
one or more habitable units which are used or intended to be used by residents
primarily for living and sleeping.
DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT: A place of business, being operated for the sale
and purchase at retail of food and other goods, services or entertainment,
which is laid out and equipped so as to allow its patrons to be served or
accommodated while remaining in their automobiles.
DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings,
and multiple-family dwellings, but not including hotels or motels.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building, or portion thereof, containing three (3)
or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED: One which is joined to another single-family
dwelling at one or both sides by party walls.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED: One which is entirely surrounded by open area
on the same lot.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building containing two (2) dwelling units, attached
either vertically or horizontally.
DWELLING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and forming
a single habitable unit with facilities that are used, or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
EARTH SATELLITE STATION: An apparatus or device (greater than 24 inches in
diameter) that has been designed for the purpose of transmitting and/or
receiving electromagnetic radiation, but does not include conventional
television, radio and amateur radio antenna.
EASEMENT: Land or an interest in land that has been designated by lawful
agreement between the owner or owners of the land and another person or
persons, for a specified use only by such person or persons.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room exclusive of
bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets, or dining alcove directly off the
principal room, provided such dining alcove does not exceed one hundred twenty
five (125) square feet in area.
ESTABLISHMENT, BUSINESS: A place of business carrying on operations, the
ownership and management of which are separate and distinct from those of any
other place of business located on the same zoning lot.
EXEMPTION: The exempting of a person from compliance with a particular village
policy, practice, regulation, or a particular regulation set forth in the
development control ordinance or the village code, based on specific criteria
set forth in the specific policy, practice, regulation, ordinance or code
provision providing for the exemption.
EXTENDED MEDICAL CARE FACILITIES: Refers to those medical facilities designed
to accommodate inpatients in need of lengthy recuperative periods requiring
nursing attention and periodic medication.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit within a dwelling
unit, including foster children, domestic servants, and not more than two (2)
guests or roomers living in the dwelling on an extended basis. A family may
also consist of not more than five (5) unrelated persons.
FENCE: A structure that is a barrier and is used as a boundary or means of
protection or confinement, which is made of manufactured material, such as, but
not limited to: wire mesh, chainlink, wood or stone material.
FINAL PLAT: A map of subdivision with accompanying material, intended for final
approval and recording, on the basis of which land can be transferred, leased,
or encumbered.
FIREARMS AND FIREARMS AMMUNITION: As such terms are defined in the Illinois
firearm owners identification card act, 430 Illinois Compiled Statutes 65/1.1,
as amended from time to time.
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements): The
sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building, as
measured from the outside of the exterior walls, devoted to the principal use,
including accessory storage areas located within selling or working space such
as counters, racks, or closets, and any floor area devoted to retailing
activities, to the production or processing of goods or to business or
professional offices.
However, "floor area" for the purposes of measurement for off street parking
spaces shall not include:
   A.   Floor area devoted primarily to storage purposes (except as otherwise
noted herein);
   B.   Floor area devoted to off street parking or loading facilities,
including aisles, ramps, and maneuvering space; or
   C.   Mechanical or storage floor area other than area devoted to retailing
activities, to the production or processing of goods, or to business or
professional offices.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS (For Determining Allowable Area In One- And Two-Family
Residential Districts): Except as hereinafter provided, the sum of the gross
horizontal areas of all floors of all stories and partial stories of a
building, or such area devoted to a specific use, measured from the exterior
face of exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2)
buildings or uses. The application of the gross floor area regulations shall be
in conformance with appendix B that is an integral part of this ordinance.
FLOOR AREA, INTERIOR (For Determining Maximum Area Of A Home Occupation): The
sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of the dwelling as
measured from the inside of the exterior walls. However, interior floor area,
for the purpose of regulating home occupations, shall include only the
habitable portions of the dwelling and shall exclude:
   A.   Attached garages;
   B.   Unfinished basements; and
   C.   Unfinished attics.
FRONTAGE, BLOCK: The length of all the property fronting on one side of a
street between the two (2) nearest intersecting streets, measured along the
line of the street, or if dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one
side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
FRONTAGE, ZONING LOT: The length of all the property of such zoning lot
fronting on a street, as measured between side lot lines.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or portion of a main building
housing the automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring, selling, storing,
or parking motor driven vehicles. The term repairing shall not include an
automotive body repair shop or the rebuilding, dismantling, or storage of
wrecked or junked vehicles, unless expressly authorized.
GRADE: The level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior
walls of the building or structure.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: Refers to all the floor area contained within a building or
buildings, without exception.
GROUND FLOOR: That level of a building which is the first story and is situated
above the basement or, if no basement exists, on top of foundation walls.
HABITABLE SPACE: Any area or room designed and/or used for living or sleeping.
For example, unfinished attics, bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls,
storage rooms, laundry and utility rooms, basement recreation rooms, foyers,
areas or rooms used for cooking or eating, and similar areas are not considered
habitable areas or rooms.
HEDGE: A row of shrubs planted to create a visual screen.
HOME OCCUPATION: An accessory use conducted completely within a dwelling unit,
carried on by any member of the immediate family residing on the premises,
clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential
purposes.
HOSPITAL: A medical institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and
operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment, and care of individuals
suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity or other abnormal physical
condition.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: An establishment which is open to transient guests, in
contradistinction to a boarding, rooming or lodging house, and is commonly
known as a hotel in the community in which it is located; and which provides
customary hotel services such as maid service, the furnishing and laundering of
linen, telephone and secretarial or desk service, the use and upkeep of
furniture and bellboy service.
INCOMPATIBLE USE: A use or service which is unsuitable for direct association
with certain other uses because it is contradictory, incongruous, or
discordant.
JUNK (OR SALVAGE) YARD: An open area where waste or scrap materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, including,
but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, and
bottles. A "junk or salvage yard" includes an auto wrecking yard, but does not
include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
KENNEL: Any business, premises, or portion thereof, in which more than three
(3) dogs or other domestic animals over three (3) months of age are boarded for
compensation, bred, cared for, or kept for sale.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing of produce or products is not to be permitted within
this definition.
LANDSCAPE AREA: That portion of a lot devoted exclusively to landscaping,
except that streets, drives and sidewalks may be located within such area to
provide reasonable access.
LANDSCAPING: The aesthetic improvement of property through the installation of
plant materials, berming, walls and fences, and other decorative elements.
LAUNDRY FACILITIES: An establishment used for dry cleaning drop off or
retrieval, clothing repair or alterations, or services to be performed for
households, but not firms. Excludes automotive and equipment cleaning or dry
cleaning processing plant. Typical uses include laundry drop off station.
LIGHT ASSEMBLY: Assembly of parts or products from previously prepared
materials. Typical uses include: catering, printing or publishing and related
support activities, computer and electronic products, or other establishments
that have no negative impacts on surrounding properties.
LINE OF SIGHT: A clear line of vision at an intersection.
LOT: A parcel of land located within a single block and may be either a "lot of
record" or a "zoning lot".
LOT AREA, GROSS: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and
rear lot lines, but not including any area occupied by the waters of a duly
recorded lake or river.
LOT, ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY EXTERIOR: A lot occupied by an attached single-
family dwelling which has a common side wall along only one side lot line.
LOT, ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY INTERIOR: A lot occupied by an attached single-
family dwelling which has common side walls along both side lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets.
LOT COVERAGE: The maximum percentage of total lot coverage that is improved
with a principal residential structure and any other impervious surfaces,
including, but not limited to, accessory structures, detached garages,
driveways, outdoor residential recreational facilities (including all swimming
pools or similar structures), private sidewalks, terraces, and patios.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot, measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE, CORNER SIDE: Any lot line between the front and rear lot lines which
abuts a public street.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which is along an existing or dedicated
public street or, where no public street exists, is along a public way. On
corner lots, the front lot line shall be the lot line along a street which has
the shortest dimension. In the case of landlocked land, the front lot line
shall be that lot line that faces the access to the lot.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR SIDE: Any lot line between the front and rear lot lines
which does not abut a public street.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is, or
is most nearly, parallel to the front lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been
recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of Cook County; or a parcel of
land, the deed to which was recorded in the office of said recorder of deeds
prior to the adoption of this ordinance.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the corner side lot line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2) more or
less parallel public streets, and which is not a corner lot. On a "through lot"
both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot,
measured at the narrowest width within the first thirty feet (30') of lot depth
immediately in back of the required front yard. In no instance shall the
required front yard exceed the yard requirements of the zoning district in
which such lot is located. In addition, the front lot line shall be at least
seventy five percent (75%) of the lot width, except that lots on cul-de-sacs
shall be exempt from this requirement.
LOT, ZONING: A single tract of land located within a single block which (at the
time of filing for a building permit) is designated by its owner or developer
as a tract to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit, under single
ownership or control. Therefore, a "zoning lot or lots" may or may not coincide
with a lot of record.
MARQUEE: A roof like structure of a permanent nature which projects from the
wall of a building.
MEZZANINE: An intermediate story between the floor and ceiling of a main story
and extending over only part of the main floor.
MINIWAREHOUSE: A structure or group of structures not exceeding one story or
seventeen feet (17') in height in a controlled access, fenced compound
containing individual storage units with access to each unit for the storage
and warehousing of personal property as opposed to commercial property.
Miniwarehouses do not include wholesaling, retailing, servicing or repair of
household or commercial goods in conjunction with storage.
MOTEL: See definition of Hotel Or Motel.
MOTOR VEHICLE, NONPASSENGER: Any bus, trailer, truck or recreational vehicle as
defined in the Illinois motor vehicle code.
MOTOR VEHICLE, PASSENGER: Any vehicle designed, built and used primarily for
the transport of between one and eleven (11) persons.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure, lawful at the
time of enactment of this ordinance, which does not comply with all of the
regulations of this ordinance or of any amendment hereto governing bulk for the
zoning district in which such building or structure is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: The use of any land, buildings, or structures for a use
which is either not permitted in the applicable district regulations, or is not
a lawfully established conditional use.
NOXIOUS MATTER: Matter which is capable of causing injury or illness to living
organisms, or is capable of causing detrimental effects to the health or the
psychological, social, or economic well being of humans.
NURSING HOME: See definition of Convalescent, Nursing Or Rest Home.
OBSTRUCTION: An accessory structure or building located within a required yard,
or an appendage to a principal building which projects into a required yard.
OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE: See definition of Certificate Of Occupancy.
ODOROUS MATTER: Any matter or material that yields an odor which is offensive
in any way.
OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS: A professional organization, or an
administrative unit of business enterprise, including, but not limited to,
offices of accountants, financial brokers, insurance agents, architects,
engineers, planners, medical arts (such as dentists, physicians, and
optometrists), attorneys, real estate and title companies. An office includes
activities which are limited to the administrative professional functions of
business, and excludes sales of merchandise, manufacturing, product testing or
other nonadministrative functions.
OFFICIAL PLAN: The official land use plan, or any geographical or functional
part thereof, as adopted by the village of Western Springs, indicating the
general locations recommended for streets, parks, public buildings, and other
community development aspects.
OPEN AREA: That area of a lot, parcel, or tract that is not covered by a
building or structure.
OPEN SALES LOT: A principal or accessory use involving the selling of
merchandise not contained within an enclosed building.
OPEN SPACE: That portion of a lot or tract not covered with impervious surfaces
(buildings and paving).
OVERHANG: That portion of a building which horizontally extends beyond the
building walls of the first story of such building.
OWNER: Any person having legal or equitable title to the land sought to be
subdivided.
PARKING SPACE: An enclosed or unenclosed surfaced area permanently reserved for
the temporary storage of one automobile and appropriately connected with a
street or alley by a surfaced driveway affording adequate ingress and egress.
PARTY WALL: A wall which is common to but divides contiguous buildings.
PERSON: Includes any corporation, partnership, groups of persons, associations,
or agent, so that where the word "person" is used it is clear that any entity
who would be subject to this ordinance would be defined as a person.
PHILANTHROPIC INSTITUTION: An organization and/or facilities devoted to the
betterment and/or improvement of community life, including, but not limited to,
such institutions as the YMCA, YWCA, boys clubs, and educational or charitable
foundations.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A parcel of land or contiguous parcels of land of a size
sufficient to create its own environment, controlled by a single landowner or
by a group of landowners in common agreement as to control, to be developed as
a single entity, the environment of which is compatible with adjacent parcels,
and the intent of the zoning district or districts in which it is located; the
developer or developers may be granted relief from specific land use
regulations and design standards and may be awarded certain premiums in return
for assurances of an overall quality of development, including any specific
features which will be of exceptional benefit to the community as a whole; and
is a subdivision approved as a conditional use.
PLAT OF CONSOLIDATION: A plat that combines more than one lot of record, in
whole or in part, into a single lot of record or into multiple lots of record,
but fewer in number than the underlying existing lots of record that are part
of the consolidation.
PLAT OFFICER: The chairman of the plan commission of the village of Western
Springs, or the director of community development, but only for
administratively approved plats of consolidation or subdivisions or
resubdivisions.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A preliminary map of subdivision with accompanying material,
upon which the design for the subdivision is presented, submitted for approval
by the village but not for recording.
PROPERTY LINES: The lines bounding a "zoning lot", as defined herein.
PUBLIC WAY: Any sidewalk, street, alley, highway, or other public thoroughfare.
RECREATIONAL DEVICE: A structure or outdoor facility not attached to the
principal structure on a lot and intended principally for recreational use such
as, but not limited to, a playhouse, a swing set, a trampoline, a sandbox, or a
freestanding basketball standard.
RECREATIONAL FACILITY, RESIDENTIAL: An outdoor area, court, pool, or facility
composed of impervious surface material (e.g., asphalt, concrete, rubber or
synthetic material) or nonimpervious surface material (e.g., sand) or any
combination thereof, other than a recreational device, intended for active
recreational or athletic use such as game courts, swimming pools, or ball
fields established as an accessory use to a single-family residential dwelling.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A camping trailer, motor home, mini- motor home, travel
trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational purposes
and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D): A business that engages in research, or
research and development of computer software, information systems,
communication systems, transportation, geographic information systems,
multimedia and video technology. R&D does not include manufacturing. The use or
storage of hazardous materials as determined by the fire department shall not
be permitted.
RESIDENTIAL: Refers to the use of land or buildings for dwelling purposes.
REST HOME: See definition of Convalescent, Nursing Or Rest Home.
RESTAURANT: A business establishment within which food is offered for sale and
consumption only within the structure on the premises.
RESUBDIVISION: The relocation of property boundaries or the reallocation of
property in a final plat that creates new lots of record or modifies the
boundary lines of existing lots of record. A resubdivision may also be referred
to as a subdivision. The dissolution of property lines not accompanied by the
relocation of new property lines shall not constitute a resubdivision, but
shall be considered a consolidation.
RIGHT OF WAY: A dedicated parcel of land to provide vehicular access to private
and public property.
ROADWAY: The portion of the street right of way available for vehicular
movement. Roadway width shall be measured from back of curb to back of curb.
ROOF: That portion of a building or structure which encloses such building or
structure from the sky.
ROOF, MANSARD: A roof with two (2) slopes, the lower slope being steeper than
the upper slope.
SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA: Any accessory structure used to receive radio or
television signals from a transmitter or transmitter relay in planetary orbit.
SCREENING: A structure erected or vegetation planted for the purpose of
concealing from view the area behind it.
SELF-STORAGE FACILITY: A building consisting of individual, small self-
contained units that are leased or owned for the storage of business and
household goods or contractors' supplies. Such supplies may not include
hazardous materials as determined by the fire department.
SERVICE USE: A class of commercial uses that do not generate sales tax but
trade directly with the consuming public.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of commercial establishments, planned, developed, and
managed as a unit related in location, size and type of shops to the trade area
that the unit serves.
SHRUBS: Refers to a planting or growth of multistemmed woody plants.
SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING: A dwelling type consisting of three (3) or
more dwelling units in a single structure, in a side by side arrangement
sharing common side walls such that each dwelling unit provides an individual
exterior at grade entrance.
SKETCH PLAN: A general map or drawing on which the design for the subdivision
of the land is presented for discussion purposes prior to the preparation of
the preliminary plat.
SPECIALTY SHOP: A retail shop that sells a narrow range of goods and products
and serves a specific clientele or provides a specific product not readily
found in other retail establishments.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:
   A.   Less than completely or opaquely covered: 1) human genitals, 2) pubic
region, 3) buttock, and 4) female breast below a point immediately above the
top of the areola;
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if completely
or opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
   B.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, fellatio or sodomy;
   C.   Fondling, kissing, or other erotic touching of specified anatomical
areas.
STORY: That part of a building between the surface of any floor and the surface
of the floor next above, and if there is no floor above, then the ceiling
above. A basement is a story if its ceiling is five feet (5') or more above the
level from which the height of the building is measured.
STORY, HALF: That portion of a building under a gable, hip, or mansard roof,
the wall plates of which on at least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not
more than four and one-half feet (41/2') above the finished ceiling of the
story immediately below.
STREET, COMMUNITY ARTERIAL: See subsection
10-10-7B of this ordinance.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: See subsection
10-10-7B of this ordinance.
STREET HALF: That portion of the street on either side of a tract boundary when
a proposed street has its centerline, or within its right of way, the
boundaries of one or more tracts.
STREET, LOCAL: See subsection
10-10-7B of this ordinance.
STREET, NEIGHBORHOOD ARTERIAL: See subsection
10-10-7B of this ordinance.
STREET, PRIVATE: A paved area located on private property for the purpose of
providing vehicular access to that property.
STREET, PUBLIC: A paved area within a dedicated right of way established to
provide vehicular access abutting properties.
STREET, REGIONAL ARTERIAL: See subsection
10-10-7B of this ordinance.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right of
way of a street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as the addition,
removal, or alteration of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or
foundations.
STRUCTURE: Anything which is constructed or erected which requires permanent
location on the ground or attachment to something having permanent location on
the ground.
SUBDIVIDER: Any owner or other person proceeding under the subdivision
ordinance to subdivide or develop land.
SUBDIVISION: The division of land into two (2) or more lots of record, the
creation of any easement or right of way, the establishment of a planned
development, or any change in the boundary lines of a lot.
SUBDIVISION, ADMINISTRATIVE MINOR: A subdivision or resubdivision of
residentially zoned lot(s) that results in the creation of not more than two
(2) lots that meet or exceed the minimum lot area and size requirements for the
applicable zoning district classification and shall otherwise be in full
compliance with applicable provisions of this ordinance. The newly created lots
shall front on an existing improved street, and not involve the construction of
any new street, road or public utilities (other than service lines) or public
or private drainage infrastructure improvements (excluding any on site drainage
features or structures that are site specific) and shall not adversely affect
the development of or create any nonconformity for the remainder of the parcel,
or create a conflict with any provision of the ordinances of the village of
Western Springs.
SUBDIVISION, MAJOR: Any subdivision or resubdivision not classified as a minor
subdivision or not specifically exempted under the terms of this ordinance.
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: Any subdivision or resubdivision that results in the
creation of not more than four (4) lots, and fronting on an existing improved
street, and not involving the construction of any new street, road or public
utility, and not adversely affecting the development of the remainder of the
parcel or adjoining property, and not in conflict with any provision or portion
of the land development ordinance of the village of Western Springs.
SURFACE AREA, ANTENNA: An area determined by adding together the actual surface
area of each solid element or part of an antenna or its support structure,
where "solid" is defined to include all air spaces that are fully bounded by
solid elements.
SURVEYOR: A land surveyor, registered as such by the state of Illinois.
SWIMMING POOL: A permanent or semipermanent structure used for recreational
swimming or bathing that is located either below ground level, above ground
level or a combination thereof.
TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY: Occupancy of a dwelling, structure or lot, by a person or
persons to perform a particular use for a limited period of time, such as
selling real estate, overseeing building construction, or selling Christmas
trees.
TEMPORARY USE: See definition of Use, Temporary.
TERRACE: An accessory structure adjoining a building consisting of a relatively
level, paved area which is open to the sky.
TOXIC MATERIAL: Any substance (liquid, solid or gaseous) which by reason of an
inherent deleterious property when emitted in any amount, is injurious to
plants, animals, or human beings.
TRAILER: A movable or portable unit to be towed on its own chassis and which is
used for recreational or temporary office purposes, and is not designed for
permanent or long term residence.
TRANSITIONAL YARD: See definition of Yard, Transitional.
TRELLIS: A vertical or diagonal lattice structure that is either freestanding
or attached to a building for the purpose of growing vines.
TRUCK: A motor vehicle including a road tractor or a truck- tractor designed,
used, or maintained primarily for the transportation of property, including
"pickup trucks" and "cargo vans" in which at least one-third (1/3) of the total
vehicle length is designed, used, or maintained for the transportation of
property rather than human passengers.
TWO-FAMILY DWELLING: A dwelling type consisting of two (2) dwelling units in a
single structure, arranged either as side by side units sharing a common wall
or stacked units, with individual exterior entrances or individual unit access
from a shared foyer.
UNDEVELOPED LAND: Land in and surrounding the village that has not been
subdivided and/or improved under the requirements of the development control
ordinance.
USE: Use of property is the purpose or activity for which the land or building
thereon is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or
maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: An activity conducted within a building or structure, or on the
open area of the lot which is:
   A.   Conducted or located on the same zoning lot as the principal building
or use served, except as may be specifically provided elsewhere in this
ordinance;
   B.   Clearly incidental to, subordinate in purpose to, and serves the
principal use; and
   C.   Either in the same ownership as the principal use or is clearly
operated and maintained solely for the comfort, convenience, necessity, or
benefit of the occupants, employees, customers, or visitors of or to the
principal use.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A use, either public or private, which, because of its unique
characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in a
particular district or districts. After due consideration, in each case, of the
impact of such use upon neighboring land and of the public need for the
particular use at the particular location, such "conditional use" may or may
not be granted, subject to the terms of this ordinance.
USE, EXISTING: Any use of a parcel of land or a building which exists on the
effective date hereof.
USE, NONCONFORMING: Any use of land, building, or structure, lawful at the time
of the enactment of this ordinance, which does not comply with all of the
regulations of this ordinance or of any amendment hereto governing use of the
zoning district in which such use is located.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and standards of such district.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use. A "principal use" may be "permitted" or
"conditional".
USE, TEMPORARY: Any use which is established only for a fixed period of time,
with the intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of such time, and
which does not involve the construction or alteration of any permanent
structure.
VARIATION: A relaxation of the provisions of this ordinance where such
variation will not be contrary to the public interest and where a literal
enforcement of this ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue hardship or
encroach upon the property rights of others.
VARIETY STORE: A retail shop that sells a range of goods and products not
generally falling into one category.
VEHICLE: Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway or waterway, except devices moved by human
power.
VIEW OBSTRUCTION: An obstruction of a line of sight (see definition of Line Of
Sight).
VILLAGE: The village of Western Springs.
VILLAGE ATTORNEY: The attorney or legal firm retained by the village to
represent its interests.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: A professional engineer, registered in the state of Illinois,
who has been duly appointed as such by the village board.
WALKWAY/BIKEWAY: A way, however designated, across or within a block for use by
pedestrian and bicycle traffic, which shall include, but not be limited to,
sidewalks and crosswalks.
WALL: A vertical structure of a linear nature which serves to support, retain,
or screen.
WATCHMAN'S QUARTERS: Working facilities for an owner/operator or employee to
provide twenty four (24) hour security in any zoning district where such
accommodations are a permitted use. Watchman's quarters shall not serve as a
primary residence for a watchman.
YARD: An area on the same zoning lot with a building or structure, unoccupied
and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky, except as otherwise
permitted in this ordinance. A yard is the distance between a building and a
lot line.
YARD, CORNER SIDE: A side yard which adjoins a public street, extending from
the front face of the building to the rear face of the building.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending from the front building face to the front lot
line along the full width of the lot between the side lot lines.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A side yard which is located immediately adjacent to
another zoning lot or to an alley separating such side yard from another zoning
lot, extending from the side face of the building to the interior side lot line
between the front and rear yards.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending from the building face to the rear lot line along
the full width of the lot between the side lot lines, except that for corner
lots the rear lot shall terminate at the corner side yard.
YARD, REQUIRED: The front, rear, interior side or corner side yard required by
the applicable provisions of this ordinance.
YARD, TRANSITIONAL: A required yard on a lot in circumstances where the lot
abuts a more restrictive zoning district and the proposed use of the lot could
create potential impacts on adjacent property. No principal buildings are
permitted in transitional yards. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 93-1867,
6-28-1993; Ord. 94-1888, 1-24-1994; Ord. 94-1921, 12-12-1994; Ord. 95-1928, 1-
23-1995; Ord. 96-1965, 2-26-1996; Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998; Ord. 99-2082, 4-26-
1999, eff. 8-1-1999; Ord. 01-2158, 1-22-2001; Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001; Ord. 03-
2227, 2-24-2003; Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003; Ord. 03-2267, 10-27-2003; Ord. 04-
2294, 5-24-2004; Ord. 04-2308, 9-13-2004; Ord. 09-2530, 3-23-2009; Ord. 15-
2786, 2-23-2015; Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015; Ord. 21-3044, 6-28-2021; Ord. 21-
3047, 6-28-2021)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
   Part I. Administrative Bodies
10-3-1: Summary Of Authority
10-3-2: Village Board
10-3-3: Village Manager, Designee
10-3-4: Chief Building Official And Department Of Community Development
10-3-5: Village Engineer
10-3-6: Plan Commission
10-3-7: Board Of Zoning Appeals
   Part II. Administrative Procedures
10-3-8: General
10-3-9: Zoning Compliance Review
10-3-10: Occupancy Certificates
10-3-11: Variations
10-3-12: Amendments
10-3-13: Appeals
10-3-14: Conditional Uses
10-3-15: Subdivisions
PART I. ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES
10-3-1: SUMMARY OF AUTHORITY:
The responsibility for the administration of the development control ordinance
shall be vested as follows:
   A.   Village board.
   B.   Village manager or his designee.
   C.   Chief building and code official.
   D.   Village engineer.
   E.   Plan commission.
   F.   Board of zoning appeals. (Ord. 00-2110, 1-24-2000)
10-3-2: VILLAGE BOARD:
   A.   Establishment: The village of Western Springs has previously
established the village board.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The village board shall make final
decisions on amendments to this ordinance, subdivisions, variances to front
elevation bulk ratio provisions and stormwater management regulations; and
conditional uses. (Ord. 00-2110, 1-24-2000)
10-3-3: VILLAGE MANAGER, DESIGNEE:
   A.   Establishment: The village of Western Springs has previously
established the position of village manager.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The village manager or his designee shall
have the following duties and responsibilities:
      1.   To meet and counsel with subdividers and developers regarding
conformance with this ordinance and other village ordinances, plans and
policies.
      2.   To review all plats of subdivision and annexation plats submitted to
the village for conformance with this ordinance and other village ordinances,
plans and policies.
      3.   To prepare studies, designs and plans in conjunction with updating
the comprehensive plan.
      4.   To prepare statistical data, base maps, charts and tables relative
to the comprehensive plan.
      5.   To prepare technical reports on special planning projects.
      6.   To conduct land use studies and analyses of changes in land use.
      7.   To analyze and prepare summary reports on social, physical and
population data and correlate such information with the comprehensive plan.
      8.   To perform such other duties as directed by the village board or as
otherwise provided in the village code. (Ord. 00-2110, 1-24-2000)
10-3-4: CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL AND DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Establishment: The village of Western Springs has previously
established the office of the chief building official and the department of
community development.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   The duties of the chief building official and the department of
community development, or his/her designee, shall be to carry out all
inspections including fire, building, housing, zoning, subdivision, and health
and safety inspections.
      2.   To order all work stopped on the excavation, construction,
alteration or repair of any building or property in the village when such work
is being done in violation of this ordinance. Work shall not be resumed after
the issuance of such an order except on the written permission of the
department of community development, provided, that if the stop order is an
oral one, it shall be confirmed in writing within four (4) hours.
      3.   To prepare and service citations requiring the abatement of any
violations and the payment of a fine by preparing a citation slip and
personally serving the same upon the person or persons, firm or corporation
responsible for the property violations. In the event the owner, occupant,
contractor or other person responsible for the violation cannot be located the
citation may be served by posting a copy at the property or structure where the
violation has occurred and sending a copy of the citation by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the last known address of such person.
      4.   To inspect the construction of planned developments and subdivisions
to determine conformance with approved plans.
      5.   To conduct zoning compliance reviews regarding any permit pertaining
to the use of land, buildings or structures.
      6.   To issue occupancy certificates for all uses of land and buildings
within the village.
      7.   To issue permits for temporary uses requiring administrative
approval.
      8.   To administratively approve all plats of consolidation, subdivision
or resubdivision, or amendments to planned development plats or plans (as
authorized by the code), provided the lot(s) created by said plats meet the
minimum lot area and size requirements for the applicable zoning district
classification and is otherwise in full compliance with applicable provisions
of this ordinance. (Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015)
10-3-5: VILLAGE ENGINEER:
   A.   Establishment: The village of Western Springs has previously
established the position of village engineer.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The duties and responsibilities of the
village engineer shall be as follows:
      1.   To review all plats of subdivision and annexation plats submitted to
the village for conformance with this ordinance and other village ordinances,
plans and policies.
      2.   To work with the department of code enforcement with respect to all
provisions of chapter 10 of this ordinance. (Ord. 00-2110, 1-24-2000)
10-3-6: PLAN COMMISSION:
   A.   Establishment; Membership; Terms Of Office: The plan commission shall
be established, its membership identified and the members' terms of office
specified according to title 2, chapter 2 of the village code.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The plan commission shall have powers and duties as
follows:
      1.   To prepare and recommend to the board of trustees a comprehensive
plan of the village, looking to the present and future development of the
village, which plan, after its adoption by the board of trustees, shall be
known as the "official land use plan of the village of Western Springs". The
plan commission may thereafter, from time to time, recommend any changes of
such official land use plan. The official land use plan may include reasonable
requirements in reference to streets, alleys and public grounds in nondeveloped
land within the corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside the
corporate limits of a distance not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles, but
not included in any city, village or incorporated town.
      2.   To prepare and recommend to the board of trustees, from time to
time, plans for the implementation of such official land use plan.
      3.   To give advice and assistance to the board of trustees in the
development and completion of projects embraced within the official land use
plan.
      4.   To hear requests on and make recommendations to the board of
trustees on amendments to the text and map of this ordinance, on preliminary
and final subdivision plats, and on conditional uses.
      5.   To undertake special planning studies from time to time as requested
by the board of trustees.
      6.   Provided, that the board of trustees shall at times have power, on
its own initiative, to prepare and originate an official land use plan for the
village and to amend, revise, or modify the same as it shall deem necessary or
desirable.
      7.   To hear and make recommendations to the board of trustees on
petitions for satellite dish approval.
   C.   Conformity To Plan: After an official land use plan of the village has
been adopted by the board of trustees, no map or plat of any subdivision
affecting land within the village limits or within contiguous territory which
is not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond such limits and not
included in any incorporated municipality, shall be recorded or shall be valid
unless such subdivision is determined by the plan commission and board of
trustees to be in conformity with the applicable requirements of the official
land use plan. (Ord. 00-2110, 1-24-2000)
10-3-7: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS:
   A.   Establishment; Membership; Terms Of Office: The board of zoning appeals
shall be established, its membership identified and the members' terms of
office specified according to title 2, chapter 5 of the village code. (Ord. 00-
2110, 1-24-2000)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The zoning board of appeals shall hear and
render final decisions on all appeals and variances, except that the board of
trustees shall make final decisions on variances to gross floor area provisions
and stormwater management regulations and shall hear and make final decisions
on requests for exemptions from the development control code regulations. The
zoning board of appeals shall hear and make recommendations to the village
board on variances to the gross floor area provisions and stormwater management
regulations. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
   C.   Meetings And Procedures: Meetings of the board of zoning appeals shall
be on call at the village hall. Public hearings and meetings shall be conducted
in conformance with the requirements of state statute and this ordinance. The
board of zoning appeals may adopt such other rules and procedures for the
conduct of its meetings and for public hearings that are not inconsistent with
the provisions of state statute and this ordinance.
   D.   Vote Required: Four (4) concurring votes of the board of zoning appeals
shall be required for rendering a final decision on administrative appeals, a
final decision on variances, or forwarding a recommendation on variation
requests to the village board. (Ord. 00-2110, 1-24-2000)
PART II. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
10-3-8: GENERAL:
Procedures governing zoning certificates, occupancy permits, variations,
appeals, amendments, conditional uses, and any other administrative functions
shall be as set forth below. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-3-9: ZONING COMPLIANCE REVIEW:
Except as hereinafter provided, no permit pertaining to the use of land or
buildings shall be issued by an officer, department or employee of the village
unless the application for such permit has been examined by the department of
code enforcement and such permit has affixed to it his written authorization
indicating that the proposed use complies with all the provisions of this
ordinance. Any permit or certificate issued in conflict with the provisions of
this ordinance, or without such authorization, shall be null and void. (Ord.
92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
10-3-10: OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Intent: No land shall be occupied or used and no building thereafter
erected or altered shall be occupied or used in whole or in part for any
purpose whatsoever until a certificate shall have been issued by the department
of code enforcement stating that the buildings and use comply with the
provisions of this ordinance.
   B.   Certificate Applications: Applications for occupancy certificates shall
be made directly to the department of code enforcement.
   C.   Issuance Of Occupancy Certificates:
      1.   Required Signatures: All occupancy certificates shall be signed by
the chief building official or his designee, verifying that the building,
structure, and/or use for which it is issued is in full compliance with the
provisions of this ordinance and that such building or structure is habitable
and in full compliance with the Western Springs building code and other
applicable village codes and ordinances. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord.
98-2064, 12-21-1998)
      2.   Conditions: No occupancy certificate for a new building, structure
or portion thereof shall be issued until construction has been completed and
the premises inspected and certified to be in conformity with the plans and
specifications upon which the building permit was based. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-
1992)
      3.   Temporary Occupancy Certificates: Pending the issuance of an
occupancy certificate, the chief building official or his designee, may, at his
discretion, issue a temporary occupancy certificate to be valid for a period
not to exceed six (6) months from its date of issuance. The term of the
temporary occupancy and zoning certificate may, however, be extended by the
mutual consent of the applicant and the village.
      4.   Notice Of Noncompliance: An occupancy certificate for a new building
or structure shall be issued, or written notice shall be given to the applicant
stating the reasons why a certificate cannot be issued, within thirty (30) days
after the department of code enforcement is notified in writing that the
building or premises is ready for occupancy. Existing buildings or uses cited
for noncompliance shall have ninety (90) days from the date of written notice
to bring such building or use into compliance. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd.
Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
10-3-11: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Intent: The zoning board of appeals, or in the case of exemptions to
the village code requirements or variations to the gross floor area provisions
and stormwater management regulations, the village board, may, after a public
hearing, vary the regulations of this ordinance in harmony with its general
purpose and intent. Variations shall be granted only in the specific instances,
hereinafter set forth, where the zoning board of appeals makes findings of fact
in accordance with the standards set forth in this ordinance, and further,
finds that there are practical difficulties or particular hardships on the
petitioner in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the regulations of
this ordinance or that the variation is necessary in order for the petitioner
or the village to comply with or conform to federal or state law. (Ord. 01-
2167, 5-21-2001)
   B.   Eligible Petitioners: An application for a variation may be made by any
person, firm, or corporation, or by any office, department, board, bureau, or
commission with a proprietary interest in property within the village. (Ord.
92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   C.   Variation Procedures:
      1.   Applications: An application for a variation shall be filed with the
department of code enforcement, who shall forward such application to the
zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-
1998)
      2.   Public Hearings: Public hearings conforming to state statutes and
this ordinance shall be required for all variation applications. Notice of all
public hearings shall be published not more than thirty (30) days nor less than
fifteen (15) days before said hearing in one or more newspapers with a general
circulation within the village. If a specific parcel is the subject of the
application, notice shall also be given by posting a sign on said property. The
sign shall measure at least six (6) square feet and bear on its face the words
"Zoning Application Pending" and a telephone number that can be called for
additional information. The sign shall be issued to the applicant by the
department of code enforcement for posting by the applicant. The sign shall be
posted facing the street, not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen
(15) days before said hearing and shall be removed from the property and
returned to the department of code enforcement by the applicant following the
conclusion of the hearing. (Ord. 99-2081, 4-26-1999)
      3.   Decisions: The zoning board of appeals, or in the case of variations
to the gross floor area provisions the village board, shall determine findings
of fact based on the standards established in subsection C4 of this section.
      4.   Criteria For Variations: The regulations of this ordinance shall not
be varied unless findings based on the evidence presented are made in each
specific case that affirm each of the following criteria:
         a.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations were to be applied;
         b.   The conditions upon which an application for a variation is based
are unique to the property for which the variation is sought, and are not
applicable, generally, to other property within the same zoning classification;
         c.   The purpose of the variation is not based primarily upon a desire
to increase financial gain;
         d.   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this ordinance
and has not been created by any person presently having an interest in the
property;
         e.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located;
         f.   The granting of the variation will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood; and
         g.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light or air to adjacent property or substantially increase the congestion of
the public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or impair natural drainage
or create drainage problems on adjacent properties, or endanger the public
safety, or substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      5.   Limitations On Variations: Limitations on the degree or amount of
exception or variation are established below. These limitations shall
constitute the maximum variation allowed and shall not be interpreted as the
recommended variation.
         a.   Off Street Parking And Loading Variations: Variations from the
parking and loading requirements established in chapter 4, part II of this
ordinance shall be limited as follows:
            (1)   The same off street parking facility may be used to satisfy
the parking requirements of this ordinance for two (2) or more uses, and
provided that substantial use of such facility by each user does not take place
at approximately the same hours of the same days of the week, provided that the
reduction in parking spaces is not less than sixty percent (60%) of the total
number required if calculated separately. An independent parking study shall
accompany any such requests for variation.
            (2)   The applicable off street parking or loading requirements may
be reduced by one parking space or loading space, or twenty percent (20%) of
the required facilities, whichever is greater, provided that requirements for
conditional uses shall be subject to subsection
10-3-14G7 of this chapter.
         b.   Building Height: Variations in the height of buildings and
structures shall not be more than ten percent (10%) above the maximum height
allowed.
         c.   Lot Area: Variations in the amount of lot area required shall not
result in such lot area being reduced by more than five percent (5%) of the
minimum area required.
         d.   Building Coverage: A variation to the maximum building coverage
restrictions can only be granted if it does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the
building coverage restrictions permitted in each zoning district, except that a
variation not to exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the maximum building coverage
restrictions may be granted to a lot in the R2 - single-family residence
district for purposes of constructing an addition to an existing principal
building or structure, provided the following criteria are met:
            (1)   The principal building or structure was constructed prior to
year 1950.
            (2)   There is a need for preservation of a certain architectural
or historic element or feature of the principal building or structure that
necessitates the increased variation.
            (3)   The grant of a variation to the maximum building coverage
restrictions under this subsection cannot cause the maximum lot coverage
requirement for all structures (see subsections
10-6-3G, "Maximum Building Coverage", 10-4-4A2, "Area Limitation", and I3c,
"Lot Coverage", of this ordinance) to be exceeded.
         e.   Accessory Use Structure Area Limitations In Required Yards: A
variation to the maximum area limitations in required yard coverage can only be
granted if it does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the area limitations in
required yard coverage permitted. (Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015)
      6.   Revocation: Where a variation has been granted pursuant to the
provisions of this section, such approval shall become null and void unless
work thereon is substantially underway within twelve (12) months of the date of
issuance. An extension past twelve (12) months may be authorized for up to six
(6) months by the zoning board of appeals. A public hearing for an extension
shall be held only if the person granted the variation or a successor ("the
petitioner") requests such an extension and hearing in writing to the
department of code enforcement prior to the end of the initial twelve (12)
month period. All costs for the public hearing to consider the extension shall
be paid by the petitioner. (Ord. 97-2029, 11-24-1997; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-
1998)
      7.   Exemption From Development Control Ordinance Requirements: The board
of trustees may approve an exemption from any of the requirements of the
development control ordinance, in order to comply with or conform to federal or
state law, or to avoid or resolve any alleged violation of the freedom of
religion based rights afforded to any person under federal or state law caused
by the enforcement of any village regulation. Any person desiring such an
exemption shall file a written petition with the chief building official, who
shall forward the petition to the board of trustees for purposes of conducting
a public hearing on the petition and issuing a final determination. The
petition shall include separate statements that: a) advise which particular
regulation of the village the requested exemption relates to; b) explain how
the regulation is not in conformance with federal or state law or how it
allegedly violates the person's freedom of religion based rights afforded under
federal or state law; c) describe how granting the exemption would be in the
public interest and not be contrary to health, safety and welfare
considerations; and d) describe the intended use of land or activity for which
the exemption is being sought. The petitioner shall submit any additional
information requested by the board of trustees and shall appear before the
board of trustees at the public hearing to explain the request and to answer
any questions relative to the petition. The board of trustees, however, may
consider approving an exemption in accordance with the criteria set forth
below, based on evidence available to it, without the filing of a petition
under this section or without the petitioner being present at the public
hearing.
In considering an exemption from the requirements of the development control
ordinance, the board of trustees may approve the exemption provided it makes
findings, based on the presented evidence, regarding at least one of the
following criteria:
         a.   The exemption is in the public interest and is not contrary to
health, safety and welfare considerations.
         b.   The exemption is necessary for the petitioner or the village to
comply with or conform to federal or state law and the village regulation does
not constitute or further a compelling governmental interest in need of
protection and is not the least restrictive alternative for satisfying or
achieving the governmental interest.
         c.   The exemption is necessary to avoid or resolve any alleged
violation of the freedom of religion based rights afforded to any person under
federal or state law caused by the enforcement of any regulation of the
development control ordinance and the village regulation does not constitute or
further a compelling governmental interest in need of protection and is not the
least restrictive alternative for satisfying or achieving the governmental
interest.
            (1)   Village Regulation: The board of trustees shall either grant
or deny the exemption within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the public
hearing at which it considered the exemption. The board of trustees may request
additional information from the petitioner, may continue the hearing from time
to time in order to fully consider the petition and all pertinent information,
and may grant the exemption: a) in full, or b) in part by waiving compliance
with certain aspects of the village regulation. The board of trustees may grant
the exemption in full or in part, subject to conditions that are related to the
public health, safety and welfare. If the board of trustees grants the
exemption in full or in part, it shall pass an ordinance that approves of the
exemption and, if appropriate, the ordinance may contain conditions relating to
the exemption. If the board of trustees denies the exemption, it shall issue a
written decision that identifies the reasons for the denial and shall provide a
copy of the decision to the petitioner. The petitioner may file a written
request with the board of trustees for a temporary use permit to allow the use
or activity during the pendency of the exemption petition process pursuant to
chapter 4 of this ordinance.
            (2)   Village Policy Or Practice: In regard to an exemption from
any village policy or practice, the same procedures and criteria under
subsection C7c(1) of this section shall apply, except that there shall be no
public hearing before the board of trustees. The chief building official shall
forward the petition to the board of trustees who shall consider the exemption
petition at an open public meeting that shall be attended by the petitioner.
The public meeting shall be scheduled within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
petition and the board may request additional information from the petitioner.
The board shall grant or deny the exemption within thirty (30) days of the
conclusion of the last public meeting at which it considers the information
relative to the exemption. The board of trustees may grant the exemption in
full or in part, subject to conditions that are related to the public health,
safety and welfare. If the board of trustees grants the exemption in full or in
part, it shall pass an ordinance that approves of the exemption and, if
appropriate, the ordinance may contain conditions relating to the exemption. If
the board of trustees denies the exemption, it shall issue a written decision
that identifies the reasons for the denial and shall provide a copy of the
decision to the petitioner. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
10-3-12: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Intent And Policy: For the purpose of promoting the public health,
safety, and general welfare, conserving the value of property throughout the
community, and lessening or avoiding congestion in the public streets and
highways, the village board may, from time to time, in the manner hereinafter
set forth, amend the regulations of this ordinance or amend district boundary
lines, provided that in all amendatory ordinances adopted under the authority
of this section, due allowances shall be made for existing conditions, the
conservation of property values, the disposition of building development to the
best advantage of the entire community, and the uses to which property is
devoted at the time of the adoption of such amendatory ordinance.
   B.   Authority And Declaration Of Public Policy: The authority to amend this
ordinance shall rest with the village board, following a public hearing held by
the plan commission and receipt of the plan commission's report on findings of
fact pursuant to such amendment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, changes to the
text of this ordinance to correct typing or printing errors or errors in
calculations may be made administratively.
   C.   Initiation Of Amendment: Amendments may be proposed by the village
board, plan commission, zoning board of appeals, other village officials or any
person with a proprietary interest in property within the village.
   D.   Application For Amendment: An application for an amendment to this
ordinance shall be filed with the village manager in such form and accompanied
by such information as reasonably required by the village manager. The village
manager, upon receiving a full and complete application for amendment, shall
transmit the application, along with all pertinent data filed therewith, to the
plan commission for review. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   E.   Public Hearing: The plan commission shall schedule a public hearing
within sixty (60) days of receipt of any application for amendment. Notice of
the hearing shall be published not more than thirty (30) days nor less than
fifteen (15) days before said hearing in one or more newspapers with a general
circulation within the village. If a specific parcel is the subject of the
application, notice shall also be given by posting a sign on said property. The
sign shall measure at least six (6) square feet and bear on its face the words
"Zoning Application Pending" and a telephone number that can be called for
additional information. The sign shall be issued to the applicant by the
department of code enforcement for posting by the applicant. This sign shall be
posted facing the street, not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen
(15) days before said hearing; and shall be removed from the property and
returned to the department of code enforcement by the applicant following the
conclusion of the hearing. (Ord. 99-2081, 4-26-1999)
   F.   Findings Of Fact And Recommendation Of The Plan Commission: The plan
commission shall submit written recommendations to the village board within
thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the public hearing. Extension of this
time period may be allowed by mutual consent of the applicant and the plan
commission. Findings of fact shall conform, generally, to the guidelines
established below:
      1.   Map Amendments: Where a map amendment is proposed, the plan
commission shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each
specific case with respect to, but not limited to, the following matters:
         a.   Existing uses of property within the general area of the property
in question;
         b.   The zoning classification of property within the general area of
the property in question;
         c.   The suitability of the property in question to the uses permitted
under the existing zoning classification;
         d.   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question, including changes if any, which have taken place in its
present zoning classification;
         e.   The suitability of the property in question for permitted uses
listed in the proposed zoning classification;
         f.   The compatibility of the surrounding property with the permitted
uses listed in the proposed zoning classification;
         g.   The objectives of the current comprehensive plan for the village
and the impact of the proposed amendment on the said objectives.
      2.   Text Amendments: Where a text amendment is proposed, the plan
commission shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each
specific case with respect to, but not limited to, the following matters:
         a.   The degree to which the proposed amendment has general
applicability within the village at large and is not intended to benefit
specific property.
         b.   The consistency of the proposed amendment with the objectives of
this ordinance and the intent of the applicable zoning district regulations.
         c.   The degree, if any, to which the proposed amendment would create
nonconformity.
         d.   The consistency of the proposed amendment with the comprehensive
plan.
         e.   The degree, if any, to which the proposed amendment contradicts
village policy as established in previous rulings on petitions involving
similar circumstances.
   G.   Action By The Village Board: The village board shall not act upon a
proposed amendment to this ordinance until it shall have received a written
report and recommendation from the plan commission on the proposed amendment
incorporating findings of fact, as established above.
   H.   Effect Of Denial Of Amendment: No application for an amendment that has
been denied by the village board shall be resubmitted for a period of one year
from the date of the order of denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or
proof of change of condition found to be valid by the village manager.
   I.   Repeal Of Amendment: In any case where a map amendment has been granted
and where no development has taken place within one year, the plan commission,
after holding a public hearing, may recommend to the village board that such
zoning be affirmed or repealed and rezoned to its most appropriate district
classification. The repeal of a map amendment can then be effected by the
adoption of an ordinance repealing the amendment by the village board. (Ord.
92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-3-13: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority: The board of zoning appeals shall hear testimony concerning
appeals from any administrative order, requirement, decision or determination
made by any of the administrative bodies or authorized official concerning this
ordinance and render a final decision on such matters.
   B.   Initiation: An appeal may be filed with the board of zoning appeals by
any person, firm, or corporation, or by any office, department, board, bureau,
or commission aggrieved by an administrative order, requirement, decision or
determination under this ordinance by any of the administrative bodies or
authorized official vested with the authority to administer this ordinance. The
appeal must be filed no later than forty five (45) days from the date of the
action that is being appealed.
   C.   Staying All Proceedings: Unless the village manager or the chief
building official certifies to the zoning board of appeals, in writing, that a
stay of proceedings would pose an imminent peril to life and property, an
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action that is being
appealed.
   D.   Processing: An appeal shall be filed with the village manager or the
chief building official, who shall forward such appeal, and all papers and
other evidence constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken, to the zoning board of appeals for processing in accordance with this
ordinance and the applicable statutes of the state of Illinois.
   E.   Public Hearing: A public hearing shall be conducted in conformance with
state statutes by the board of zoning appeals for every appeal. Notice of the
hearing shall be published not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15)
days before said hearing in one or more newspapers with a general circulation
within the village.
   F.   Decisions: The board of zoning appeals shall hear testimony and
evidence concerning appeals, and prepare findings of fact and shall render a
final decision on all appeals. (Ord. 00-2119, 3-20-2000)
10-3-14: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Purpose: The development and execution of this ordinance is based upon
the division of the community into districts within which the use of land and
buildings and the bulk and location of buildings and structures are similar. It
is recognized, however, that there are certain uses which, because of their
unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified in any particular
district or districts, without consideration, in each case, of the impact of
those uses upon neighboring land and of the public need for the particular use
in the particular location. Such conditional uses fall into two (2) categories:
      1.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally connected with a public
interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such a nature that their
operation may give rise to particular concerns with respect to their impact
upon neighboring property or public facilities.
   B.   Authority: The village board shall render final decisions on all
applications for a conditional use. The plan commission shall hold a public
hearing, prepare findings of fact, and submit its recommendation to the village
board for consideration. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   C.   Initiation Of Conditional Use Application: Any person, firm,
corporation, office, department, or other legal entity having a freehold
interest in land, or a possessory interest entitled to exclusive possession, or
a contractual interest which may become a freehold interest or an exclusive
possessory interest, and which is specifically enforceable, may file an
application with the consent of the property owner, to use such land for one or
more of the conditional uses provided for in this ordinance in the zoning
district in which the land is located. In the event a particular use is not
listed as a conditional use in this ordinance, a person may file an application
for a text amendment to the ordinance to add the use as a listed conditional
use. In such cases, the text amendment application may be considered at the
same time that a related conditional use application is being considered, but
the matters shall be considered under separate public hearing proceedings and
the board of trustees shall decide the text amendment application prior to the
conditional use application. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
   D.   Application For Conditional Use: An application for a conditional use
shall be filed with the village manager on an official, prescribed form. The
application shall be accompanied by the following plans, data or information:
      1.   A statement in writing by the applicant and adequate evidence
showing that the proposed conditional use will conform to the standards set
forth in subsection G of this section.
      2.   A site plan of the proposed use identifying the location of all
buildings and structures on the site; buildings, structures and pavement on
adjacent property; open space; points of ingress/egress; the location of
parking; property lines; easements; and scale, north arrow and date.
      3.   The existing use and zoning of land within two hundred feet (200')
of the subject site.
      4.   A landscape plan showing all proposed and existing landscaping
including berming, buffering and screening.
      5.   Estimated traffic generation of the proposed use.
      6.   Floor plans indicating the internal use of structures.
      7.   Architectural elevations.
      8.   An exterior lighting plan indicating the location of all lighting
fixtures.
      9.   An accurate legal description of the subject property.
      10.   Other information as may be required by the plan commission.
Such application shall be forwarded from the village manager to the plan
commission for review and recommendation to the village board. (Ord. 92-1855,
12-14-1992)
   E.   Public Hearing: The plan commission shall hold a public hearing
conforming to state statutes for special uses on each application, at such time
and place as shall be established by the plan commission, but within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the completed application. Notice of the hearing shall
be published not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days
before said hearing in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within
the village. Notice will be sent as required by state statutes for special
uses. Notice shall also be given by posting a sign on the property. The sign
shall measure at least six (6) square feet and bear on its face the words
"Zoning Application Pending" and a telephone number that can be called for
additional information. The sign shall be issued to the applicant by the
department of code enforcement for posting by the applicant. This sign shall be
posted facing the street, not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen
(15) days before said hearing; and shall be removed from the property and
returned to the department of code enforcement by the applicant following the
conclusion of the hearing. (Ord. 99-2081, 4-26-1999)
   F.   Plan Commission Action: For each application for a conditional use, the
plan commission shall, within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the public
hearing concerning such application, submit its written findings to the village
board, including the stipulations of additional conditions, and guarantees that
such conditions will be complied with when they are deemed necessary for the
protection of the public interest. Such additional conditions and guarantees
shall be in the form of proposals to the village board which may accept, reject
or modify such proposals as the village board deems appropriate.
   G.   Standards: No conditional use shall be recommended by the plan
commission unless it finds:
      1.   That the establishment, maintenance, or operation of the conditional
use will not be detrimental to, or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort, or general welfare;
      2.   That the conditional use will not be injurious to the uses and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood in which it is to be located;
      3.   That the establishment of the conditional use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for
uses permitted in the district;
      4.   That adequate public utilities, access roads, drainage and/or
necessary facilities have been or will be provided;
      5.   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets;
      6.   That the proposed conditional use is not contrary to the objectives
of the current comprehensive plan for the village of Western Springs; and
      7.   That the conditional use shall, in all other respects, conform to
the applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as
such regulations may, in each instance, be modified pursuant to the
recommendations of the plan commission and approved by the village board.
   H.   Conditions And Guarantees: Prior to the granting of any conditional
use, the plan commission may recommend, such recommendations being advisory
only and not binding, and the village board may stipulate such conditions,
guarantees and restrictions, upon the establishment, location, construction,
maintenance, and operation of the conditional use as are deemed necessary for
the protection of the public interest and to secure compliance with the
standards and requirements specified above. In all cases in which conditional
uses are granted, the village board shall require such evidence and guarantees
as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in connection
therewith are being and will be complied with.
   I.   Action By The Village Board:
      1.   The village board shall review and consider the recommendations of
the plan commission, but the village board shall have the sole authority and
responsibility to make final decisions on all petitions for conditional uses.
      2.   The village board shall not act upon a proposed conditional use
until it receives a written report and recommendation from the plan commission
on the proposed conditional use.
      3.   The village board may grant by ordinance, deny, amend the
recommendation of the plan commission, or refer back to the plan commission for
further study, any application for a conditional use, and may establish such
conditions and restrictions upon the establishment, location, construction,
maintenance, and operation of the conditional use, as is deemed necessary by
the village board for the protection of the public interest and to secure
compliance with the standards and requirements specified in subsection G of
this section.
      4.   In all cases where the village board permits the establishment of a
conditional use, the terms of the relief granted shall be specifically set
forth in the ordinance.
   J.   Effect Of Denial Of Conditional Uses: No application for a conditional
use that has been denied wholly or in part by the village board shall be
resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of said order of denial,
except on the grounds of new factual evidence, or a change in the conditions
that would alter the concept or intent of the request including more than a
fifteen percent (15%) modification in the density, height, land use, or
building type, changes in road standards or alignment, or conditions which
would have a positive effect on the surrounding property. New factual evidence
or a change in conditions must be certified by the village manager. The village
manager must find either new factual evidence or a change in conditions
presented at the original public hearing, as well as a change in the site plan,
before the village board could find cause and allow a new public hearing to be
conducted.
   K.   Revocation:
      1.   In any case where a conditional use has not been established (or
substantially under way) within one year from the date of granting thereof,
then, without further action by the village board, the conditional use or
authorization thereof shall be null and void.
      2.   A conditional use permit may be revoked if the conditional use as
established or constructed on the site does not conform to the established
conditions for approval. The village manager will be responsible for advising
the village board of any violations and the village board may then authorize
the plan commission to schedule a public hearing to consider revoking the
conditional use permit. After conducting the public hearing, the plan
commission shall then prepare a written report and recommendation to submit to
the village board. Upon receipt of the plan commission's report, the village
board shall then render a final judgment to rescind the conditional use permit
and accompanying ordinance.
   L.   Expiration And Transferability: A conditional use approval shall be
deemed to authorize only a particular conditional use and shall expire if the
conditional use shall cease for more than twelve (12) months for any reason.
However, the ownership of an authorized conditional use may be changed if the
use remains unchanged. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   M.   Modification Or Intensification: Any modification or intensification of
a conditional use that alters or changes the essential character or operation
of the use or property in a way not intended at the time the conditional use
was granted, or as subsequently amended, shall require a new conditional use
permit. The property owner/operator or his authorized representative shall
apply for such conditional use permit prior to any modification of the use or
property. The department of code enforcement will review the proposed
modification and shall provide to the village manager an opinion as to whether
the proposed modification or intensification represents an alteration or change
in the essential character or in the operation of the conditional use as
approved. The operator of the conditional use shall provide the department of
code enforcement with all the necessary information related to the conditional
use in order for the department to provide said opinion to the village manager
in preparation for the final determination by the village manager. In
determining whether a proposed modification or intensification of a conditional
use alters or changes the essential character or operation of the conditional
use or the property in a way not intended at the time the conditional use was
granted, or as subsequently amended, the village manager's decision shall be
based on the following criteria: 1) the information and documents on file with
the village relating to the approval of the original conditional use or any
modification thereto; 2) the ordinance(s) approving the original conditional
use or any modification thereto; 3) the information and documents relied upon
by the department of code enforcement in preparing its opinion; 4) the scope
and nature of the existing uses of the property; and 5) any additional
information and documents relating to the proposed modification or
intensification of the conditional use provided by the operator of the
conditional use.
If the village manager determines that the proposed modification or
intensification will not alter or change the essential character or operation
of the original conditional use, as approved, a new conditional use permit
shall not be required. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
10-3-15: SUBDIVISIONS:
See chapter 10 of this ordinance. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
CHAPTER 4
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY
SECTION:
Part I
10-4-1: Use Of Land And Buildings
10-4-2: Gross Floor Area
10-4-3: View Obstructions
10-4-4: Accessory Uses And Structures
10-4-5: Temporary Uses
10-4-6: Home Occupations
Part II
10-4-7: Off Street Parking
10-4-8: Off Street Loading
Part III
10-4-9: Landscape Requirements
Part IV
10-4-10: General Illumination Standards
Part V
10-4-11: General Application
10-4-12: Purpose
10-4-13: Definitions
10-4-14: Location
10-4-15: Collocation
10-4-16: Design And Construction
10-4-17: Equipment Enclosures
10-4-18: Licenses And Permits
10-4-19: Application; Plans For Construction
10-4-20: Limited To Applicant
10-4-21: Term Limitation
10-4-22: Inspection, Abandonment And Removal
10-4-23: Additional Standards For Review
10-4-24: Compliance With FCC And FAA
10-4-25: Liability Insurance
10-4-26: Application Fee; Reimbursement Of Village Costs
PART I
10-4-1: USE OF LAND AND BUILDINGS:
In each zoning district, the following restrictions shall control the use of
land and buildings:
   A.   All business activity, service, storage, merchandise, display, and
where permitted, repair and processing, shall be conducted wholly within an
enclosed building except where specifically provided otherwise. Permitted off
street parking lots, off street loading facilities, and open sales lots need
not be enclosed.
   B.   Not more than one principal building shall be located on any zoning lot
in a residence district.
   C.   Unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, all lots shall front on a
public street. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-4-2: GROSS FLOOR AREA:
   A.   Conformance To District Requirements: No structure shall be built nor
shall a lot be developed, used, or occupied unless it meets the lot area, lot
width, yards, building height, maximum building coverage, gross floor area and
storm water management requirements established in the applicable district
regulations, except where specifically permitted in this ordinance or by
variation to this ordinance. (Ord. 99-2082, 4-26-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
   B.   Allowable Obstructions: Accessory uses and structures, and projections
of the principal structure, may be located in a required yard only as indicated
in table 4-1 of this section. In no case shall any obstruction be allowed
within three feet (3') of a lot line. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   Table 4-1
   ALLOWABLE OBSTRUCTIONS
Type Of Structure Or Use Obstruction Front And Corner Side Yards Side Rear
                                                                 Yard Yard
Type Of Structure Or Use Obstruction      Front And Corner Side Yards Side Rear
                                                                      Yard Yard
 
Air conditioners which are window units
projecting not more than 18 inches into   X                           X    X
the required yard
Arbors and trellises                      X                           X    X
Awnings and canopies, extending not more
than 2 1/2 feet into front or side yards  X                           X    X
and not more than 5 feet into rear yards
Balconies projecting not more than 5 feet                                  X
Bay windows which project 2 feet or less
on the first or second floors, but not    X                                X
both
Breezeways and open porches                                                X
Central air conditioning systems,
heating, ventilating, pool and filtering                                   X
equipment, the outside elements of which
extend not more than 4 feet into the yard
Chimneys projecting 18 inches or less     X                           X    X
into the yard
Decks (open), 2 feet high or less                                          X
Eaves, not including gutters projecting 3 X                           X    X
feet or less into the yard
Fallout shelters (completely underground)                                  X
Fences or walls subject to applicable
height restrictions of subsection         X                           X    X
10-4-4F of this chapter
Fire escapes projecting 4 feet or less                                     X
Flagpoles                                 X                           X    X
Garages, detached, subject to the
provisions of subsection                                                   X
10-4-4A of this chapter
Laundry drying equipment (clothesline and                                  X
poles)
Parking, carports and covered parking                                      X
spaces
Porches (attached, covered and
unenclosed) projecting 5 feet or less. In
the case of existing homes where the
average block face setback exceeds the
minimum front yard setback for that
zoning district, open unenclosed porches
may encroach into the required front yard X                                X
setback (block face average) to a maximum
of 8 feet provided that the encroachment
does not exceed the front building face
of the adjoining properties by more than
8 feet or exceed the minimum allowed
encroachment of the district of 5 feet in
a 30 foot setback
Recreational equipment, provided that
basketball standards and backboards shall                                  X
be allowed in all yards
Satellite dish antennas                                                    X
Signs, subject to the Western Springs     X                           X    X
sign ordinance
Steps 4 feet or less above grade which
are necessary for access to a permitted
building or for access to a zoning lot    X                           X    X
from a street or alley projecting to
within 6 feet of the lot line
Terraces which are open and not over 3
feet above the average level of the       X                           X    X
adjoining ground (does not include
permanently roofed over terrace or porch)
 
Note: "X" denotes where obstructions are allowed.
(Ord. 02-2194, 1-28-2002)
10-4-3: VIEW OBSTRUCTIONS:
No person shall plant, construct or maintain upon any land or premises within
the village, any hedge, wall, fence, or other structure or object which will
interfere with, obstruct the view of or create a safety hazard for any motor
vehicle being driven on a public street, whether such obstruction is on private
or public property. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-4-4: ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Authorization: All accessory uses and accessory buildings and
structures shall conform to the applicable requirements of the development
control ordinance and all other applicable regulations set forth in the village
code, including, but not limited to, the building code, the electrical code,
and the fire prevention code. The provisions of this chapter set forth below
establish additional requirements and restrictions for particular accessory
uses and structures. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no accessory
use or structure shall be approved, established, or constructed before the
principal use or structure is approved, established, or constructed. (Ord. 01-
2171, 6-25-2001)
      2.   Area Limitation: Enclosed accessory uses and structures shall
comprise no more than a total of ten percent (10%) of the lot area. In
addition, accessory uses, whether within enclosed structures or not, shall
comprise not more than thirty five percent (35%) of a required yard of a lot in
a residence district. In the case of driveways, not more than twenty percent
(20%) of the lot area in a residence district may be devoted to a driveway. In
addition, the size of driveway area in the required front or corner side yard
shall be no more than one thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet in the A and
R-1 districts and not more than six hundred sixty (660) square feet in any
other residence district, or forty four percent (44%) of said required yards in
any residence district, whichever is greater. In no case shall driveway width
in required front or corner side yards exceed twenty two feet (22') with the
exception of three (3) car garages which may have a width of thirty three feet
(33'). (Ord. 97-2011, 6-16-1997)
      3.   Height Limitation: Except where specifically authorized elsewhere in
this ordinance, the height of accessory buildings shall conform to the
following:
         a.   In residence districts and the C-1 district the height of
accessory buildings or structures shall not exceed fourteen feet (14').
         b.   In all other districts the height of accessory buildings or
structures shall not exceed the height of permitted uses, except that accessory
structures located on top of buildings such as chimneys, flagpoles, fire towers
and utility service poles may extend eighteen feet (18') above the principal
building.
      4.   Proximity To Principal Buildings And To Other Accessory Structures:
         a.   In residence districts, detached accessory buildings or
structures shall be located no closer than ten feet (10') from the nearest wall
of a principal structure and four feet (4') from other accessory structures on
the same lot.
         b.   In all other districts, detached accessory buildings or
structures shall be located no closer than ten feet (10') from the nearest wall
of a principal building or other accessory structure. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-
1992)
      5.   Accessory Buildings In Required Yards: No accessory buildings or
structures, except as otherwise provided in table 4-1 or elsewhere in this
ordinance, shall be located in the required front, corner side or interior side
yards. No accessory buildings on a corner lot shall project beyond the required
front yard or corner side yard line of either street. In the case of reversed
corner lots, no accessory building or structure located in the required rear
yard shall project beyond the required front yard setback of the adjoining
property. Accessory buildings shall not be closer than five feet (5') to an
interior side or rear lot line. (Ord. 00-2112, 1-24-2000)
      6.   Occupancy Limitation: No accessory use, building or structure shall
be used for habitable space, except as may be allowed under a conditional use
permit issued in accordance with this ordinance or as otherwise provided for by
this ordinance. (Ord. 01-2171, 6-25-2001)
      7.   Garage Limitation: Only one detached garage shall be permitted on
any lot used for a single- or two-family dwelling.
   B.   Vehicle Parking And Storage:
      1.   General Prohibition: The parking and storage of all vehicles,
excluding passenger cars but including buses, trailers, trucks and recreational
vehicles (including "off road" motorcycles; 3, 4 or more wheeled all terrain
vehicles or those running on tracks; and snowmobiles including any of these
vehicles on trailers) or boats, including boats on trailers (all of the above,
for the purposes of this ordinance shall be referred to as "vehicles"), shall
not be allowed in any residential district for longer than four (4) hours
except:
         a.   Within an enclosed building which meets the requirements of all
applicable ordinances.
         b.   If not within an enclosed building, then in the rear yard of a
residential lot, not closer than three feet (3') to any building or structure
or lot line.
         c.   For delivery vehicles engaged in loading or unloading or vehicles
parked in connection with use in current work being done on adjoining premises.
      2.   Parking And Storage Restrictions: Notwithstanding any other
provision of this ordinance, the following restrictions shall apply:
         a.   Restrictions Based On Vehicle Size:
            (1)   No vehicle in excess of forty feet (40') in length or more
than ten feet (10') in road clearance height shall be stored or parked within
the village except for such temporary parking as provided within section
7-7-3 of the municipal code.
            (2)   Vehicles in excess of twenty five feet (25') in length but
not more than forty feet (40') in length or more than ten feet (10') in road
clearance height may be stored or parked within the village if such vehicles
are stored or parked within an enclosed building which meets the requirements
of all other applicable regulations.
            (3)   Vehicles with the length of less than twenty five feet (25')
and not more than ten feet (10') in road clearance height may be stored or
parked outdoors within the village pursuant to the restrictions set forth in
this ordinance and all other applicable regulations.
         b.   Vehicles Used For Human Habitation: No stored or parked vehicle
shall be occupied or used for human habitation.
         c.   Disrepair Of Vehicle: No vehicle which is in a state of
externally visible disrepair or partial construction shall be stored or parked
outdoors in a residential zone, but shall be stored or parked only within an
enclosed building meeting the requirements of all applicable regulations.
         d.   Recreational Vehicles: A recreational vehicle may be temporarily
parked or stored in a side yard driveway or front yard driveway of a residence
for no more than forty eight (48) hours and then only for the express purpose
of loading, unloading or housekeeping tasks related to embarking or returning
from a trip.
         e.   Outdoor Storage; Certain Vehicles Restricted: No more than one of
the following may be stored or parked outdoors on any lot in a residential
zone: a recreation vehicle; a boat (including its trailer) if the boat is
mounted thereon; or two (2) snowmobiles, motorcycles, or ATVs if both are
mounted on one trailer. In no case shall more than one such trailer be allowed.
         f.   Grant Of Temporary Waiver: Upon prior written request of a
resident, the village manager, or his designated representative, may grant a
temporary waiver of these parking restrictions for a period of time not to
exceed seven (7) days. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      3.   Temporary Use Of Trailer For Office: Where any trailer, camper or
mobile home is being used temporarily as an office during the construction of
any building or buildings or other major construction projects within the
village, an application must be filed with the department of code enforcement
designating the length of time such structure is to be used for construction
purposes. Upon such application being filed, the department of code enforcement
may issue a temporary license permitting the parking of such trailer, camper or
mobile home for the period of construction. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd.
Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
      4.   Violations And Enforcement:
         a.   Any person using, occupying, storing or parking any truck, bus,
trailer, recreational vehicle or boat contrary to the provision herein is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
         b.   Any recreational vehicle, boat, truck, bus or trailer which is
occupied, used, stored or parked contrary to the provisions herein is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
         c.   It shall be the duty of the village manager, department of law
enforcement services and department of code enforcement to enforce these
provisions. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
      5.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day such violation shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   C.   Antenna Structures, Earth Satellite Stations, And Digital Satellite
Stations:
      1.   Purpose And Intent: It is the intent of this subsection to provide
rules and regulations for the size, placement, number and screening of antenna
structures, earth satellite stations, and digital satellite stations within the
village.
It is the intent of this subsection to permit the installation of antenna
structures, earth satellite stations, and digital satellite stations without
creating adverse economic, aesthetic and safety impacts and to promote the
health, safety and general welfare of the village, while not interfering with
the transmitting or reception function of these structures or stations.
      2.   Permit:
         a.   Accessory Structure: Antenna structures, earth satellite
stations, and digital satellite stations shall be permitted in any zoning
district as an accessory structure, subject to the provisions contained in this
subsection.
         b.   Permit Required: All antenna structures, earth satellite
stations, and digital satellite stations shall be subject to the provisions of
this subsection, and shall require a building permit except:
            (1)   Antenna structures that are attached to a building, and which
do not extend more than five feet (5') above the highest point of the building
to which the antenna is attached.
            (2)   Those antenna structures operated by Municipal safety
agencies.
         c.   Application For Permit: When a permit is required, plans and
other information for installation of an antenna structure, an earth satellite
station, or a digital satellite station shall accompany each application for a
permit, and shall include:
            (1)   Manufacturer's specifications.
            (2)   Height of the antenna structure or earth satellite station.
            (3)   Diameter, if the structure is an earth satellite station or
digital satellite station.
            (4)   Proposed setbacks from adjacent property lines or public
rights of way.
            (5)   Foundation and mounting details.
            (6)   Size, type and location of existing and proposed vegetation
on the property which influences views of the installation from adjacent
property or public rights of way.
            (7)   Location of principal structures on adjacent lots.
            (8)   Method of screening, and materials and colors of the screen,
if the antenna structure or earth satellite station will be roof-mounted.
         d.   Approval: Building permits for antenna structures, earth
satellite stations, and digital satellite stations shall be issued by the Code
Enforcement Department once all applicable requirements of this Ordinance have
been met.
         e.   Fee: Fees are as determined in Title 9, Chapter 1, Article A of
the Village Code.
      3.   Regulations: Applicants seeking to install an antenna structure,
earth satellite station or a digital satellite station in a manner which does
not comply with all of the following standards may seek relief through the
conditional use process as noted in Section
10-3-14 of this Ordinance.
         a.   Number: The maximum number of antenna structures, earth satellite
stations or digital satellite stations permitted for each principal building
located in any zoning district shall not exceed two (2), however, only one of
the two (2) permitted can be an earth satellite station or a digital satellite
station.
         b.   Location:
            (1)   Residential Districts:
               (A)   Antenna structures may be installed on flat roofs or on
that portion of a hip, gable or gambrel roof which does not face a public
street. The antenna structures shall be located so as to minimize visibility
from other properties or public rights of way. Antenna structures that are to
be ground-mounted shall be located only in the rear yard of a property
according to applicable setbacks and to minimize visibility from other
properties and public rights of way.
               (B)   Earth satellite stations shall be ground- mounted, and
shall be located only in the rear yard of a property according to applicable
setbacks and to minimize visibility from other properties and public rights of
way.
               (C)   Digital satellite stations shall be installed only on the
rear facade of a building, or that portion of the roof facing the rear yard
below the highest portion of the roof in order to minimize visibility from
other properties and public rights of way.
Digital satellite stations may be ground-mounted, and shall be located only in
the rear yard of a property according to applicable setbacks and to minimize
visibility from other properties and public rights of way.
On flat roofs the digital satellite station shall be located to minimize
visibility from other properties and the public rights of way.
            (2)   Districts Other Than Residential:
               (A)   Antenna structures, earth satellite stations, and digital
satellite stations, may be roof-mounted. Roof-mounted earth satellite stations
shall be screened from view from residential properties and public rights of
way by the roof structure, parapet wall or a solid surface. The screening
material shall be colored to blend with its background, and be compatible with
the color of the principle structure on which it is placed. If the roof is
flat, an earth satellite station shall be completely screened on all sides.
               (B)   Antenna structures, digital satellite stations, and earth
satellite stations may be installed on the ground in a rear yard of a property,
according to applicable setbacks and in a location in order to minimize
visibility from other properties and public rights of way.
               (C)   Digital satellite stations may be roof-mounted, or
installed on any facade which does not face a residential property and public
rights of way.
         c.   Landscaping:
            (1)   Ground-mounted antenna structures and earth satellite
stations shall be screened to minimize visibility by utilizing the following
minimum landscape requirements:
One six foot (6') tall evergreen tree plus a continuous three foot (3') tall
hedge, with individual plants placed on four foot (4') centers, facing each
adjacent property or public right of way from which the structure is visible.
            (2)   Plant materials to be used for screening shall consist of the
following trees and shrubs, unless the Code Enforcement Department approves a
different species:
               (A)   Evergreen Trees:
                  (i) White pine.
                  (ii) Austrian pine.
                  (iii) Colorado spruce.
                  (iv) Douglas fir.
               (B)   Shrubs:
                  (i) Arrowwood viburnum.
                  (ii) Winged euonymus.
                  (iii) Peking cotoneaster.
                  (iv) Red twig dogwood.
            (3)   Fencing, walls and berming may be used in conjunction with,
but not in lieu of, trees and shrubs to provide required screening.
            (4)   Weather permitting, landscaping, fencing, walls and/or
berming shall be installed immediately upon erection of the antenna structure
or earth satellite station. In no case shall landscaping, fencing, walls and/or
berming be deferred for more than one hundred eighty (180) days due to weather.
         d.   Diameter: For all permitted installations, it is the policy of
the Village that the smallest practical size of earth satellite stations shall
be utilized. The diameter of earth satellite stations shall not exceed the
following:
            (1)   Residential districts:
               Eight feet (8')
            (2)   All other districts:
               Twelve feet (12')
         e.   Height: For all permitted installations, it is the policy of the
Village that the lowest practical mounting height shall be used for any earth
satellite station or digital satellite station.
            (1)   Ground-mounted earth satellite stations shall not exceed the
following overall height:
               (A)   Residential districts:
Ten feet (10')
               (B)   All other districts:
Fifteen feet (15')
            (2)   Ground-mounted digital satellite stations shall not exceed an
overall height of five feet (5').
            (3)   All antenna structures, except those referenced in subsection
D of this Section, whether roof- or ground-mounted, shall not extend more than
twenty feet (20') above the highest point of the building on which they are
mounted.
            (4)   Roof-mounted digital satellite stations shall not extend more
than five feet (5') above that portion of the roof to which it is mounted,
providing it also complies with the location provisions of subsection C3b(1)(C)
of this Section.
            (5)   Roof-mounted earth satellite stations shall not exceed a
height of fifteen feet (15') above the roof in nonresidential districts.
         f.   Setbacks:
            (1)   Ground-mounted antenna structures, digital satellite
stations, and earth satellite stations shall be set back a minimum of ten feet
(10') from the rear or interior lot lines, however, an anchor for a guy wire or
cable may be located within three feet (3') of the rear or interior lot lines
if it is protected to prevent injury.
            (2)   No part of a ground-mounted antenna structure, digital
satellite station, or earth satellite station shall be located closer than the
principal building or a minimum of fifteen feet (15') to the front of a lot or
public right of way.
         g.   Color: Antenna structures, earth satellite stations, and digital
satellite stations shall be neutral in color, and to the extent possible,
colored to blend with their surroundings and adjacent structures.
         h.   Installation:
            (1)   The installation or modification of antenna structures, earth
satellite stations, and digital satellite stations shall be in accordance with
applicable requirements of the Village's Building Code and all other applicable
codes.
            (2)   Antenna structures, earth satellite stations, and digital
satellite stations shall be constructed and installed so as to withstand the
forces of wind pressure, snow and ice loads, and other forces, as provided for
in the Village's Building Code.
      4.   Conditional Use: In the event the standards of this Section cannot
be complied with, the permit applicant may file a petition for a conditional
use, following the process described in Section
10-3-14 of this Ordinance. When making a determination, the Village shall
utilize the applicable conditional use standards in subsection
10-3-14G of this Ordinance. In addition to these standards, the Village shall
ascertain whether the antenna structure, earth satellite station, or digital
satellite station will be located so as to minimize its visibility from other
properties or the public right of way.
      5.   Fines:
         a.   Any person causing or allowing a violation of the terms and
conditions of this subsection shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense, nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day that a violation of a term or condition of this subsection
exists shall constitute a separate offense.
         b.   In addition, the Village may pursue such other remedies as shall
be appropriate to prevent the violation of this subsection.
      6.   Applicability: This subsection shall not apply to any antenna
structure, earth satellite station, or digital satellite station that was
erected or which was approved by the Village prior to the effective date hereof
1  adding the amendments to this subsection of the Code herein included,
provided, however, that this subsection shall apply if:
         a.   The location of such an antenna structure, earth satellite
station, or digital satellite station is changed.
         b.   An antenna structure, earth satellite station, or digital
satellite station is increased in size or height.
         c.   An antenna structure, earth satellite station, or digital
satellite station is modified or repaired, and the cost of such modification or
repair exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value.
   D.   Amateur Radio Antenna Structures: Any antenna structure having a
combined surface area greater than five (5) square feet and having any single
dimension exceeding twelve feet (12') that is capable of transmitting as well
as receiving signals and whose operator is licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission as an amateur radio facility must satisfy each of the
following conditions:
      1.   Number Limited: No more than one such antenna structure with a
surface area greater than five (5) square feet and any single dimension
exceeding twelve feet (12') may be located on any zoning lot.
      2.   Height Limited: No such antenna structure shall, if ground- mounted,
exceed seventy five feet (75') in height or, if attached to a building pursuant
to subsection D3 below.
      3.   Attachment To Buildings Limited: No such antenna structure shall be
attached to a principal or accessory structure unless all of the following
conditions are satisfied:
         a.   Height: The antenna structure shall not extend more than twenty
feet (20') above the highest point of the building on which it is mounted.
         b.   Mounting: The antenna structure shall not be attached to or
mounted upon any building appurtenance, such as a chimney. The antenna
structure shall not be mounted or attached to the front of any building or to
the side of any building facing a public right of way. The antenna structure
shall be designed to withstand wind loads in accordance with EIA 222-E.
      4.   Grounding: The antenna structure shall be bonded to a grounding rod.
      5.   Permit: The permit requirements of subsection C of this Section
shall apply to amateur radio antenna structures described in this subsection.
      6.   Other Standards: The antenna structure shall satisfy such other
design and construction standards as the Code Enforcement Department reasonably
determines are necessary to ensure safe construction and maintenance of the
antenna and its support structure.
      7.   Setbacks:
         a.   Ground-mounted antenna structures shall be set back a minimum of
three feet (3') from the rear or interior lot lines.
         b.   No part of a ground-mounted antenna structure shall be located
closer than the principal building or a minimum of fifteen feet (15') to the
front of a lot or public right of way.
         c.   No such antenna or antenna structure shall be located in any
required side yard or nearer than one-half (1/2) the height of the antenna and
support structure to any habitable building on any adjacent property.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
 
                               Minimum
                               Setback   Maximum  Maximum
Type         Number   Location For       Diameter Height    Permit   Screening
                               Ground
                               Mounts
                                                                     If ground-
                                                                     mounted, 1
                                                            No,      evergreen
                                                            unless   tree (6')
                                                            it is    and
                                                            attached continuous
Antenna               Roof or  10' (3'            20' above to the   hedge (3')
structures   Up to 2* rear     for       ----     maximum   building facing
conventional          yard     supports)          building  and      each
TV                                                height    extends  adjacent
                                                            > 5'     property
                                                            above    or public
                                                            roof     ROW from
                                                                     which
                                                                     structure
                                                                     is visible
                                                  20' above
                                                  maximum
                                                  building
                                                  height
Amateur                                           if
radio                 Roof or                     attached           Not
antenna      1*       rear     3'        ----     to        Yes      required
structures            yard                        building.
                                                  75'
                                                  maximum
                                                  if
                                                  ground
                                                  mount.
                                                                     1
                                                                     evergreen
                                                                     tree (6')
                                                                     and
                                                                     continuous
                      Ground-                                        hedge (3')
Earth                 mounted, 10' (3'                               facing
satellite    1*       rear     for       8'       10'       Yes      each
station               yard     supports)                             adjacent
                      only                                           property
                                                                     or public
                                                                     ROW from
                                                                     which
                                                                     structure
                                                                     is visible
                      Rear
                      portion
                      of roof                     5', but
Digital               or rear  10' (3'            not above          Not
satellite    1*       building for       24"      roof's    Yes      required
station               facade   supports)          high
                      or                          point
                      ground-
                      mounted
 
   * The maximum number of structures permitted for each principal building
located in any zoning district shall not exceed 2.
   NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
 
                                Minimum
                                Setback   Maximum  Maximum
Type         Number Location    For       Diameter Height    Permit   Screening
                                Ground
                                Mounts
                                                                      If ground-
                                                             No,      mounted, 1
                                                             unless   evergreen
                                                             it is    tree (6')
                                                             attached and
Antenna                         10' (3'            20' above to the   continuous
structures   Up to  Roof or     for       ----     maximum   building hedge (3')
conventional 2*     rear yard   supports)          building  and      facing each
TV                                                 height    extends  adjacent
                                                             > 5'     property or
                                                             above    public ROW
                                                             roof     from which
                                                                      structure
                                                                      is visible
                                                   20' above
                                                   maximum
                                                   building
                                                   height
Amateur                                            if
radio               Roof or                        attached           Not
antenna      1*     rear yard   3'        ----     to        Yes      required
structures                                         building.
                                                   75'
                                                   maximum
                                                   if
                                                   ground
                                                   mount.
                                                                      If ground-
                                                                      mounted, 1
                                                                      evergreen
                                                                      tree (6')
                                                                      and
                                                                      continuous
                                                                      hedge (3')
                                                                      facing each
                                                                      adjacent
                                                                      property or
Earth               Roof or     10' (3'                               public ROW
satellite    1*     rear yard   for       12'      15'       Yes      from which
station                         supports)                             structure
                                                                      is visible.
                                                                      If roof-
                                                                      mounted,
                                                                      completely
                                                                      screened
                                                                      from public
                                                                      streets and
                                                                      adjacent
                                                                      residential
                                                                      properties.
                    Roof or
                    side/rear
                    building
                    facade not                     If roof-
Digital             facing      10' (3'            mounted,           Not
satellite    1*     streets or  for       24"      not > 5'  Yes      required
station             residential supports)          above
                    uses or                        roof
                    rear yard
                    ground-
                    mounted
 
   * The maximum number of structures permitted for each principal building
located in any zoning district shall not exceed 2.
(Ord. 95-1928, 1-23-1995)
   E.   Accessory Storage:
      1.   Enclosed Storage: In residential districts, unless otherwise
specified, all storage shall be located within enclosed structures, except
firewood and the temporary storage of materials for construction on the
premises.
      2.   Outdoor Storage: Outdoor storage and maintenance yards accessory to
uses in nonresidential districts which are located on a lot adjacent to a lot
in a residence district, or which are visible from a public street shall be
fully screened from such lots or streets, as described below:
         a.   A solid fence not more than six feet (6') nor less than four feet
(4') in height shall be located along the inside edge of the landscape area.
         b.   A continuous evergreen or dense deciduous shrub hedge extending
the entire length of the landscape area shall be planted two and one-half feet
(21/2') from the fence described in subsection E2a of this Section. This shrub
hedge shall be installed at not less than three feet (3') in height, and in
accordance with the provisions of Section
10-4-8 of this Chapter.
         c.   Shade trees not less than three inches (3") in caliper shall be
planted not less than twenty four feet (24') on center along a line located
seven feet (7') from the fence described in subsection E2a of this Section, and
in accordance with the provisions of Section
10-4-8 of this Chapter.
         d.   All surface area not planted with shrubs or trees shall be
maintained as a grass lawn. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
         e.   Additional perimeter landscaping around the storage yard may be
required by the Department of Code Enforcement, or, in the case of a planned
development or other conditional use, by the Village Board.
         f.   Outdoor storage associated with garden centers and temporary uses
shall not be subject to the above screening provisions, but shall be subject to
screening requirements as deemed appropriate by the Department of Code
Enforcement.
   F.   Fences, Walls And Hedges:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall erect or substantially alter a
fence or wall in the Village of Western Springs without having first obtained a
permit issued by the Department of Code Enforcement. In the case of fences and
walls which are erected on the property of another by a commercial organization
or business, it shall be the obligation of that organization or business to
obtain the permit. No permit shall be issued by the Village until the
Department of Code Enforcement has determined that the proposed fence or wall
complies with applicable regulations hereunder and with all other applicable
laws and ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-
2064, 12-21-1998)
      2.   General Restrictions And Prohibitions:
         a.   No private fence, wall or hedges shall be erected or planted
within the right of way of any public street, highway, parkway or alley.
However, in the "A", R-1, R-2 or R-3 Residential District, fences and hedges or
other plantings may be constructed or planted up to the edge of the resident's
side of any sidewalks. Where no sidewalk exists, plantings may be placed up to
the curb of the street but no such planting shall interfere with, obstruct the
view of, or create a safety hazard of any motor vehicle being driven, whether
on private property or on a public street. All improvements made by residents
shall be maintained by the resident and the Village shall have the right to
require the removal of any fence or hedge on a public right of way at no cost
to the Village.
         b.   No fence or wall shall be maintained or erected if it is
constructed with any material which is likely to inflict bodily harm should a
person or animal come in contact with the fence or wall. Materials covered by
this prohibition include, sharp or ragged metal spikes or spears. Barbed wire
may be used only as expressly authorized below.
         c.   No wall which interrupts, impedes or otherwise alters the natural
flow of water shall be erected in any residential district.
         d.   No barbed wire or barbed wire fences shall be erected in the "A",
R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-4 Residential District.
         e.   All fences and walls shall be erected in conformity with the wind
and stress resistance requirements of the building codes, ordinances and laws
of the Village.
         f.   All fences shall be erected so that their finished side faces
out, and the unfinished side faces the property of the person who has caused
said fence to be erected.
         g.   All fences, walls and hedges shall be maintained in good,
structurally sound repair, and in neat, clean and attractive condition.
         h.   All hedges shall be planted and maintained so that the hedge will
not overhang or interfere with the use of a public way such as a sidewalk,
alley or street.
         i.   No person shall plant, construct or maintain upon any land or
premises within the Village, any hedge, wall, fence, or other structure or
object which will interfere with, obstruct the view of or create a safety
hazard for any motor vehicle being driven, whether on private property or on a
public street.
         j.   The restrictions applicable to residence districts shall also
apply to the "O" Limited Office District in all cases.
      3.   Height Restrictions:
         a.   Fences And Walls:
            (1)   Front Yards: No fence or wall which exceeds forty two inches
(42") in height above ground level shall be erected in the front or corner side
yards of any residential structure in the "A", R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-
4 Residential Districts. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
            (2)   Side And Rear Yards: No fence or wall which exceeds seventy
two inches (72") in height above ground level shall be erected in side yards or
in rear yards of any residential structure in the A, R1, R2, R3 and R4
residential districts. Fences which are located in side and rear yards which
abut business districts may reach height not to exceed ninety six inches (96")
above ground level. Fences and walls which are located in the rear yards of
reversed corner lots which abut the public right of way and/or the front yard
of an adjoining lot shall not exceed forty two inches (42") in height. (Ord.
93-1868, 6-28-1993)
            (3)   Business Districts: No fence which exceeds ninety six inches
(96") in height above ground level shall be erected on premises in business
districts. The use of barbed wire is prohibited except that the top twelve
inches (12") of any fence along the side or rear lot line in these districts
may be constructed of barbed wire, provided that such may not be erected on
fences fronting on any street, or on any lot line adjacent to or abutting
residential property. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
            (4)   Installation: Decorative fence posts or finials may extend up
to a maximum of seven inches (7") above the allowable fence height of a
particular yard or district. No portion of installed fence sheeting may exceed
allowable heights - forty two inches (42"), seventy two inches (72") and ninety
six inches (96") respectively. Fence sheeting may be set up to six inches (6")
above grade or at the lowest height possible in order to prevent the
obstruction of existing drainage flow and/or maintain a level appearance. (Ord.
95-1952, 9-25-1995)
         b.   Hedges, Front Yard: No hedge which exceeds forty two inches (42")
in height above ground level shall be planted or maintained in the front or
corner side yard of any residential structure in the A, R1, R2, R3 and R4
residential districts.
      4.   Exemptions: Fences, walls and hedges legally in existence at the
time of adoption hereof which are not in violation of subsection F2b, F2g or
F2i of this section, and which do not present a safety hazard to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, and which do not prevent accessibility by emergency
vehicles, but which violate other provisions of this subsection F may continue
to be maintained and to exist, but may not be replaced if fifty percent (50%)
or more of the fence, wall or hedge is either destroyed or removed if the
replacement would continue the existence of a violation of these regulations.
      5.   Nonconforming Fences, Walls And Hedges: Nonconforming fences, walls
and hedges not exempted above, shall be subject to repair or removal. If,
following inspection by the director of code enforcement, any fence, wall or
hedge in said director's determination does not meet the requirements herein,
the director shall order the owner or occupier of the premises to make the
necessary repairs, improvements or to remove the fence, wall or hedge. A
reasonable period of time shall be provided to make the repairs, based upon the
nature, extent and cost of such repairs, improvements or removals. Should the
aforesaid owner or occupant fail to make the requested repairs, improvements or
removal within the time provided, said owner or occupier shall be in violation
of these regulations, and the village shall be authorized to undertake the
necessary repairs, improvements or removal at the expense of said owner or
occupier. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   G.   Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning, Swimming Pool Equipment, And
Generators:
      1.   Yard Restrictions: After the effective date hereof, no new heating
and ventilation equipment, swimming pool pumping and filtering equipment and
air conditioning equipment, other than an individual window unit, shall be
located in a required front, interior side or corner side yard.
Existing condenser units currently located in required yards may be replaced in
the same location. At the time of replacement, such replacement units located
in required yards must comply with the screening requirements contained in
subsection G2 of this section.
      2.   Screening Required: Any heating, ventilation, generator, swimming
pool pumping and filtering equipment and air conditioning equipment, other than
an individual window unit, which can be seen from the street shall be screened
to its full height from the view of the street and abutting properties by a
solid fence and/or evergreen vegetation.
      3.   Generators:
         a.   Location: On residential lots, generators if not located within
the principal structure shall be located in the rear and side yard only. Said
generators shall also be anchored to a concrete pad or prefabricated pad at
least five feet (5') from any side and rear yard property line. Generator units
exceeding three feet (3') in height may only be located in the rear yard and
must be fully screened with a solid fence or densely planted evergreens.
         b.   Noise: Generators shall be equipped with critical grade silencers
(exhaust systems) and enclosed in a sound attenuating enclosure. Additional
sound attenuation devices may be appropriate in order to comply with IEPA noise
pollution requirements. Noise emitted from generators shall not exceed seventy
(70) decibels when measured at a distance of twenty three feet (23').
         c.   Type Permitted: All new generators shall be fueled by natural
gas. Liquid fueled generators and any portable generators shall be operated in
accordance with these regulations, but shall not be permanently installed
outside or inside a residence in order to be utilized on a permanent basis.
         d.   Size: Generators shall not exceed seven feet (7') in length, four
feet (4') in width, and four feet (4') in height.
         e.   Exhaust: Modifications to the manufacturer installed exhaust
system are prohibited.
         f.   Regulation Of Generator Testing Times: Automatic testing of
generators shall be limited to weekdays between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M. and two o'clock (2:00) P.M. Manual testing of generators is permitted
only between seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on
Mondays through Fridays, and between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) P.M. on Saturdays, and between twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. on Sundays.
         g.   Color: All generators shall be neutral in color, unless painted
to match the primary exterior color of the residence. (Ord. 12-2696, 11-5-2012)
   H.   Outdoor Business Activities; Vending Machines:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, all business
operations shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building, except for
the following accessory uses:
         a.   The loading and unloading of vehicles necessary for the
transaction of business;
         b.   The maintenance of parking areas for use by employees and
customers;
         c.   The display, but not the sale, of plants or flowers in durable
containers, or fresh fruits or vegetables, provided that the display is located
within fifteen feet (15') of the principal building and is not located on
public property or a public right of way, and does not occupy or interfere with
the use of required parking spaces and aisles. However, in the case of legally
existing garden centers, the outdoor sales of plants and garden supplies,
outdoor sales shall be permitted;
         d.   Racks for the orderly display of cans of engine oil may be
located on or at the ends of each pump island. Also, two (2) tire racks (not
more than 8 feet in length, 6 feet in height and 5 feet in depth) for the
purpose of displaying new tire casings shall be permitted for each gasoline or
tire service station. Such racks shall comply with all setback and yard
requirements. Such racks shall only advertise the product(s) contained thereon.
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      2.   In no event shall a vending machine, except for newspaper dispensing
devices, be located outside of the principal building. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-
1992; amd. Ord. 05-2341, 3-21-2005, eff. 6-1-2005)
   I.   Outdoor Residential Recreational Facilities:
      1.   Permit Required: Outdoor residential recreational facilities shall
not be built, installed or modified without first obtaining a building permit.
Applications for such permits shall be obtained from the department of code
enforcement and shall be issued according to the provisions of this subsection.
The plan review deposit and permit fee for such a permit shall be according to
the fee schedule set forth in title 9, chapter 1, article A of the village
code. The plan review deposit and permit fee shall be used to satisfy the costs
and fees associated with the village's consideration of and processing of the
application and review of the design plans, including any consultant fees
retained by the village (village engineer, village attorney, surveyor, etc.).
The applicant remains obligated to pay the balance of the total actual fees and
costs incurred by the village whether or not the application is approved.
      2.   Submission Of Plans; Drainage, Lighting, Landscaping And Fencing:
         a.   Submission Of Plans: Design plans for the building, installation
or modification of an outdoor residential recreational facility shall be
submitted to the department of code enforcement with a completed application
form signed by the owner of the lot on which the facility is to be built and
the required plan review deposit and permit fee payment. The design plans shall
include a topographical plat of survey showing the proposed location of the
facility and all related improvements on the lot, the dimensions of the
facility, the type, length and height of the landscaping and fencing to be
installed at the perimeter of the facility, the specifications and proposed
location of the lighting fixtures, the specifications and proposed location of
the proposed drainage structures that serve the facility, the direction of the
surface water runoff from the facility and any additional, relevant information
required by the village engineer. The issuance of a building permit for an
outdoor residential recreational facility is subject to a review of the design
plans and final approval of said plans by the village's chief code enforcement
officer and the village engineer.
         b.   Drainage Requirements: The design plans for an outdoor
residential recreational facility shall conform to the requirements of the
village's floodplain and storm water management ordinance set forth at section
10-11-1 of this ordinance, as amended.
         c.   Lighting Requirements: Lighting fixtures associated with an
outdoor residential recreational facility shall be designed, arranged,
installed and operated in accordance with the general illumination standards
set forth in the municipal code.
         d.   Landscaping And Fencing Requirements: Outdoor residential
recreational facilities accessory to any dwelling located in any single-family
residential district shall be buffered and screened by a perimeter landscaped
open space that is at least ten feet (10.00') in width, and consisting of a six
foot (6.00') high solid fence or wall or a densely planted hedge of not less
than six feet (6') in height in combination with other landscaping materials
that conform to the landscaping and fencing regulations set forth in section
10-4-9 of this chapter and title 9, chapter 12 of the village code. Such
screening shall be provided on all sides of such facility visible from any
public or private street or any adjoining property, except for the side that is
adjacent to or nearest to the driveway of the applicant.
      3.   General Restrictions And Prohibitions:
         a.   Use: Outdoor residential recreational facilities shall be limited
to use by the occupants of the principal single-family residential use and
their guests. These facilities shall not be used for commercial or business
purposes nor as a game site or a practice site for organized teams or leagues.
Outdoor residential recreational facilities shall not be used to store or park
motor vehicles, boats or other types of recreational vehicles.
         b.   Location: Outdoor residential recreational facilities are
accessory to the principal single-family residential structure on a lot and
shall be built only in the allowable buildable area of a rear yard on a lot
located in a single-family residential district. These facilities shall not be
built or installed within ten feet (10.00') of any lot lines. Any required
perimeter landscaping or fencing may be installed within the ten foot (10.00')
setback area adjacent to the residential recreational facility, subject to the
applicable provisions of the landscaping and fencing regulations set forth in
section
10-4-9 of this chapter and title 9, chapter 12 of the village code. No outdoor
residential recreational facility shall be built, installed or maintained on an
unimproved lot located in a single-family residential district. For purposes of
this section, the term "unimproved lot" means a lot that is not improved with a
single-family residence. An application for the construction of such a facility
on an unimproved lot may be submitted to the village but a building permit
shall not be issued until the following two (2) conditions are first satisfied:
1) the unimproved lot must be adjacent to and abut one of the side lot lines of
a lot owned by the applicant, which is improved with a principal single-family
residential structure, and 2) the applicant must consolidate the unimproved lot
into his or her adjacent lot. For purposes of this section, the term "side lot
line" does not include the "rear lot line" or the "front lot line" of a lot as
those terms are defined in section
10-2-2 of this ordinance. No outdoor residential recreational facility shall be
built or installed on a "through lot", or any portion thereof, as that term is
defined in section
10-2-2 of this ordinance.
         c.   Lot Coverage: The maximum percentage of total lot coverage for a
residential lot that is improved with a principal single-family residential
structure, an outdoor residential recreational facility and any other
impervious surfaces, as defined in the term “Lot Coverage” at section
10-2-2 (Definitions) of this code. (Ord. 03-2227, 2-24-2003; amd. Ord. 21-3047,
6-28-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. Ord. 95-1928 passed January 23, 1995.
10-4-5: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   Temporary Uses Permitted: "Temporary uses", as defined in this
development control ordinance, shall be permitted in all zoning districts,
subject to the restrictions and standards established in this ordinance,
provided that any temporary use or structure shall meet the bulk regulations
and parking requirements established in this chapter. No temporary use or
structure shall continue for such a length of time that it constitutes in
effect a permanent use. Recurring temporary uses and structures, where the same
temporary use or structure is established on the property on an annual basis or
other regularly periodic basis, shall be treated as a conditional use and shall
be subject to the regulations established in chapter 3, "Administrative Bodies
And Procedures", of this ordinance.
   B.   Compliance With Building, Electrical And Fire Prevention Codes:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this ordinance, any tent, trailer,
building or structure subject to the requirements of this ordinance and
intended or used for human occupancy shall comply with the building, electric
and fire prevention codes of the village and shall not be used or occupied
until a temporary use permit has been issued by the director of code
enforcement.
   C.   Additional Restrictions: Restrictions on temporary uses and/or sales
made as part of any temporary uses shall not apply to any use which is
conducted entirely on private residential property, operated by the person,
company, or organization owning the property, provided that the duration of the
temporary use does not exceed forty eight (48) hours and is repeated not more
than four (4) times a year.
   D.   Temporary Uses And Structures Subject To Administrative Approval: The
following temporary uses and structures are permitted in any zoning district if
they meet the requirements of this ordinance and receive a temporary use permit
from the chief building official:
      1.   Construction trailers, equipment storage sheds and portable
lavatories, provided that:
         a.   The trailer, shed or portable lavatory is an integral part of the
construction of an active building development;
         b.   The trailer, shed or portable lavatory is located on the same lot
as the building development or an abutting lot;
         c.   The trailer, shed or portable lavatory shall remain on the
property no longer than the time of active construction; and
         d.   The trailer, shed or portable lavatory will be located no closer
than ten feet (10') from any other property line located within or adjacent to
a residential district.
      2.   Portable lavatory for public uses, provided that:
         a.   The portable lavatory is for a specific event and incidental to
the public use; and
         b.   The portable lavatory is located on the same lot as the public
use; and
         c.   For events having a duration of forty eight (48) hours or less,
the portable lavatory must be located no closer than twenty five feet (25')
from any other property line located within or adjacent to a residential
district.
         d.   For events having a duration in excess of forty eight (48) hours,
the portable lavatory must be located no closer than one hundred feet (100')
from any other property line located within or adjacent to a residential
district.
         e.   In no case shall the portable lavatory remain on the property
longer than ninety (90) days and no longer than forty eight (48) hours after
the event is over.
         f.   Notwithstanding the general restrictions placed on portable
lavatories used by the public, upon request of the Western Springs park
district or Lyons township district 204, the department of code enforcement
shall have the authority to permit portable lavatories to be placed in the
parks or school athletic fields from April 1 to October 31 of each year with
such screening as may be reasonably necessary to minimize the visual impact of
the portable lavatories. The number of such lavatories shall be determined by
the department of code enforcement after consultation with park district or
high school officials, but the location of such lavatories shall be consistent
with the restrictions on location as set forth in subsection D2d of this
section.
      3.   Christmas tree sales lots, provided that:
         a.   The use is located on a lot that fronts a collector or arterial
street;
         b.   The use is located on a vacant lot or parking area;
         c.   The trees are located at least fifty feet (50') from any
structure on another lot;
         d.   Trees remaining on hand after December 25 shall be removed from
the premises no later than December 31 of the same year;
         e.   A refundable cash deposit, in the amount of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) is posted with the village in order to assure that the site
is properly cleaned after the sale is completed; and
         f.   The use is located in a commercial district.
      4.   Art, craft and book sales.
      5.   Sidewalk sales.
      6.   Vendors' carts and stalls, provided that:
         a.   The cart or stall will not block a driveway or other point of
emergency vehicular access to any property;
         b.   The cart or stall will not block a public sidewalk or street;
         c.   The vendor has the express written consent of the owner of the
property to place the cart or stall on the property; and
         d.   Where operating on a public right of way or public property, the
vendor shall maintain an insurance policy that designates the village as an
additional insured party against any liability for personal injuries or
property damage.
      7.   Garage sales; occurring four (4) or fewer times per calendar year.
(Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
      8.   Pet chickens and outdoor chicken shelters on residential lots. In
order to maintain pet chickens and outdoor chicken shelters, the following
regulations shall be followed:
         a.   No person shall keep or harbor any rooster.
         b.   No person shall keep or harbor more than four (4) chickens on any
residential lot.
         c.   Chickens shall be kept in a covered outside enclosure or inside a
residence or a garage when left unattended. The shelter regulations are
described below.
         d.   Chickens shall not be permitted to run at large in the village.
         e.   Chickens may be allowed outside in a fenced rear yard area or
other permanently fenced area or temporarily fenced area while in the presence
of their owners or keepers.
         f.   There shall be no slaughtering of any poultry outdoors on any
residential lot.
         g.   Chicken shelter regulations:
            (1)   An outdoor shelter shall be located only in the rear yard of
a lot and no closer than ten feet (10') of either side yard lot line and no
closer than five feet (5') from any rear yard lot line.
            (2)   The interior area of any shelter and the rear yard area shall
be maintained in a sanitary condition.
            (3)   Outdoor shelters shall be designed to be architecturally
compatible with the principal residence or any existing accessory structure or
the principal residence's rear yard landscape theme and shall be constructed of
quality, durable building materials. Outdoor shelters shall be constructed and
maintained to be weatherproof in order to withstand inclement and extreme
weather and to be secure from predators. A professional predator protection
system approved by the community development department shall be installed on
any outdoor shelter.
            (4)   All shelters shall be designed and constructed with adequate
ventilation and in a manner that allows them to be easily cleaned.
            (5)   Maximum roof height shall not exceed eight feet (8'). For a
pitched roof, the eight foot (8') measurement shall be to the midpoint of the
pitched roof. (Ord. 12-2697, 11-5-2012)
   E.   Temporary Uses And Structures Subject To Approval By The Village Board:
The following temporary uses and structures, and any other temporary uses and
structures not specified in this section, are permitted only upon approval by
the village board and based upon the standards set forth below:
      1.   Carnivals, provided that:
         a.   No carnival shall be set up, run, operated or conducted within
the limits of the village unless a written permit from the village board has
been issued, setting forth the conditions under which such carnival shall be
operated. The permit shall be granted upon the condition that there shall not
be set up or operated any gambling device, lottery, number or paddle wheel,
number board, punchboard, or other game of chance, or any lewd, lascivious or
indecent show or attraction making an indecent exposure of the person or
suggesting lewdness or immorality.
         b.   The operator shall comply with the provisions of division 54.1
(carnivals) of the Illinois municipal code 1 , as amended, and the carnival and
amusement rides safety act 2 , as amended, as a condition of approval of a
village permit to operate a carnival. Division 54.1 (carnivals) of the Illinois
municipal code 3 , as amended, and the carnival and amusement rides safety act
4 , are incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth in this section.
         c.   The general penalty provisions of this ordinance as well as the
penalty provisions of division 54.1 (carnivals) of the Illinois municipal code
5  and the carnival and amusement rides safety act 6  shall apply to any
violations of this section.
         d.   Trailers and other equipment do not block driveways or other
points of emergency vehicular access to any property.
         e.   Trailers and other equipment do not block a public street, alley
or sidewalk.
         f.   The operation will be located entirely within the private or
public property designated for the event. (Ord. 08-2495, 5-12-2008)
      2.   Vendors' carts and stalls provided that:
         a.   The cart or stall will be located on a lot in the C1 or C2
district;
         b.   The cart or stall will be located between the principal building
and a public street;
         c.   The cart or stall will not block a driveway or other point of
emergency vehicular access to any property;
         d.   The cart or stall will not block a public sidewalk;
         e.   The vendor has the express written consent of the owner of the
property to place the cart or stall on the property; and
         f.   Where operating on a public right of way or public property, the
vendor shall maintain an insurance policy that designates the village as the
insured party against any liability for personal injuries or property damage.
      3.   Produce and farmers' markets.
      4.   Garage sales; occurring more than four (4) times per calendar year.
      5.   Uses or activities in relation to which a person has filed a
petition under this ordinance (section
10-3-11 of this ordinance) for an exemption from any development control code
regulation or any village policy or practice, provided that the board of
trustees finds that the below criteria have been met. The board of trustees
shall issue a temporary use permit if it makes a preliminary finding, based on
the information contained in the person's exemption petition and the written
recommendation of the chief building official, that the issuance of a temporary
use permit is necessary to avoid or resolve any potential violation of the
religious based rights afforded to any person under federal or state law caused
by the enforcement of such village regulation, policy or practice, provided
that no temporary use permit shall be granted if the board determines that: a)
the regulation, policy or practice constitutes or furthers a compelling
governmental interest in need of protection, and b) the regulation, policy or
practice is the least restrictive alternative for achieving the compelling
governmental interest. The temporary use permit shall be limited to the land
use or activity that is the subject of the exemption petition and shall expire
at the time the board issues its decision in relation to the exemption
petition. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
   F.   Outdoor Cafes In The Village Center Commercial District And The
Community Shopping District:
      1.   Eligibility:
         a.   Outdoor cafes are allowed as temporary uses in the C1 and C2
zoning districts on private property and on public rights of way, provided that
the proposed operator secures permission to use the property from the property
owner. Proof of such permission (letter, lease, etc.) shall be provided to the
director of community development as part of the application.
         b.   The use of public or private sidewalks for outdoor cafes shall
only be permitted incidental to the restaurant that operates the outdoor cafe.
The outdoor cafe shall be located adjacent to the building that contains the
operating restaurant. As part of the approval of an outdoor cafe permit, the
village board shall approve the operating rules, location and layout of the
outdoor cafe after consideration of the criteria set forth in subsection F2d of
this section. The service or consumption of alcoholic beverages within an
outdoor cafe is prohibited, unless the village board has created a liquor
license for such activity and a liquor license has been issued to the outdoor
cafe operator by the local liquor control commissioner.
      2.   Requirements For Outdoor Cafes:
         a.   A completed annual application on a village issued form with a
written narrative describing the layout and operation of the outdoor cafe shall
be filed by the applicant with the village clerk's office.
         b.   All tables, chairs and other appurtenances shall be removed
during the months of December to March or if required by the village at any
other time. During cold or inclement weather, an outdoor cafe may be fully or
partially enclosed by temporary windblocks, provided that the temporary
structure is approved by the village board and once it is constructed, the
director of community development confirms that it conforms to the applicable
provisions of the village code.
         c.   The operation of an outdoor cafe shall comply with state and
village fire and health code regulations, accessibility laws and regulations
and all other applicable provisions of federal, state or county law and the
village code.
         d.   The outdoor cafe shall not be detrimental to the health, safety
or general welfare of persons residing or working near the outdoor cafe. In the
approval of a layout for a proposed outdoor cafe that is adjacent to
residential property, the village board will give consideration to requiring
architectural elements, such as fencing, screening, vegetation or other
appropriate structures, that can serve as a buffer to minimize the impact of
noise on the adjacent residential property. As part of the renewal application
for an outdoor cafe, the village board may reexamine the previously approved
operating rules, location or layout and require changes or alterations to the
operating rules, location or layout in order to meet the health, safety or
general welfare criteria set forth above. No food may be stored, cooked or
otherwise prepared in the outdoor cafe. No live entertainment shall be
permitted in the outdoor cafe.
         e.   The operation of outdoor cafes shall be permitted only between
the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Sundays
through Thursdays, and between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Fridays and Saturdays. Prior to the opening time and
after the closing times listed above, patrons will not be allowed to occupy an
outdoor cafe.
         f.   All outdoor cafe permits shall be subject to review and approval
by the village board and such permits may be revoked by action of the village
board at any time with thirty (30) days' notice or immediately by the village
board or the director of community development in the event of a public health
or safety issue.
         g.   If utilizing the public right of way, the applicant must enter
into a license agreement with the village or another type of agreement for use
of the right of way if another public entity owns the right of way. The
village's license agreement requires the applicant to agree to hold harmless
and indemnification provisions, and submit to the village evidence of general
liability insurance that names the village and its appointed and elected
officials, employees, agents, attorneys, engineers and volunteers (village
affiliates) as named additional insureds and insuring the village and its
affiliates against any liability resulting from the uses permitted by this
section. Minimum coverage shall be two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per
occurrence for general liability insurance and the policy shall have no less
than an A rating by the most recent "AM Best Insurance Rating Guide". If the
outdoor cafe is located on private property, the applicant must still maintain
the above insurance coverage, with the village and village affiliates named as
additional insureds, and must submit proof of such coverage to the village as
part of being eligible to receive a permit.
         h.   In no case shall the operation of an outdoor cafe reduce the open
portion of a public sidewalk to less than five feet (5') clear of all
obstructions (i.e., street lighting, benches, trees, etc.). The applicant may
apply to the village to use the entire width of a private sidewalk to locate
the outdoor cafe but in such case an adequate, alternate means of access will
have to be demonstrated and dedicated for use in the event a private sidewalk
is required for access purposes to a building or structure.
         i.   All maintenance and upkeep of the public right of way and any
private property associated with the operation of the outdoor cafe shall be the
responsibility of the owner/operator of such cafe (upkeep includes cleanup of
tables, chairs, trash, litter and washing of sidewalks and the replacement of
damaged public property). The owner/operator shall provide and maintain in a
clean and neat manner at least one covered trash receptacle within or adjacent
to the outdoor cafe. The covered trash receptacle(s) shall be emptied once full
and also each day upon closing of the outdoor cafe.
         j.   The village board reserves the right to impose as part of
approval of a permit such other regulations on the operation of an outdoor cafe
as are deemed necessary and appropriate under the circumstances.
      3.   Design Criteria:
         a.   All outdoor furnishings shall be designed to withstand a wind
pressure of not less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot.
         b.   Tables to be placed within the public right of way shall not have
a surface area greater than nine (9) square feet, shall be easily removable and
may not impede safe movement.
         c.   Materials and finishes shall be selected for their durability and
wear as well as for their appearance. Proper measures shall be taken to correct
damage or decline due to the elements, neglect, or abuse.
         d.   Devices incorporated to separate the outdoor cafe from pedestrian
pathways, such as fencing or planters, must conform to the above standards of
design.
      4.   Submittal Requirements:
         a.   Completed application form, an application fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and a written narrative describing the layout and operation
of the outdoor cafe shall be filed by the applicant with the community
development department.
         b.   Proof of insurance listing the village and its affiliates as
additional insureds.
         c.   A signed license agreement, prepared by the village attorney,
containing hold harmless and indemnification provisions.
         d.   Site plan drawn to accurate scale illustrating the location and
dimensions (in feet with total square foot area) of the proposed outdoor cafe,
including a seating and table plan, facade elevations, pedestrian traffic flow
inside and outside the outdoor cafe and proposed planters, fence, borders,
awnings, and umbrellas. If the outdoor seating area is proposed to be located
on the public right of way, the drawings must also include the location of
existing public improvements, including fire hydrants, street signs,
streetlights, traffic signals, mailboxes, trees and tree grates, planting boxes
or planting areas or other overhead obstructions, or any other public
obstruction.
         e.   Catalog cuts and/or photographs of all furniture and other
appurtenances to be located within the outdoor cafe.
      5.   Approval Process:
         a.   Initial applications shall be reviewed by the director of
community development, and other appropriate departments as necessary, with a
staff recommendation forwarded to the village board. Upon receipt of the staff
recommendation, the application shall be approved or denied by the village
board at a public meeting.
         b.   Applications for permit renewals, provided no or minimal changes
are requested, shall be approved by the director of community development,
unless the previous operation of the outdoor cafe constituted a nuisance or the
operator otherwise refused to comply with the applicable village code
provisions. In the event the village board decides that the previously approved
operating rules, location or layout require changes or alterations in order to
meet the health, safety or general welfare criteria set forth in subsection F2d
of this section, the application for permit renewal is subject to approval by
the village board.
         c.   An outdoor cafe permit approval shall not be subject to the
conditional use process unless some other aspect of the land use requires or
has already received a conditional use approval. (Ord. 09-2529, 3-23-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-54.1 et seq.
2 2. 430 ILCS 85 et seq.
3 3. 65 ILCS 5/11-54.1 et seq.
4 4. 430 ILCS 85 et seq.
5 5. 65 ILCS 5/11-54.1 et seq.
6 6. 430 ILCS 85 et seq.
10-4-6: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as provided below, no person shall conduct a
home occupation, including home daycare, in a residence or on a residential lot
without having first received a permit to do so from the department of code
enforcement. Typing, writing, operating telephones, sewing machines or
computers shall not require any permit, but shall be subject to requirements
governing home occupations. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-
21-1998)
   B.   General Requirements And Standards: All home occupations shall comply
with each and every one of the following standards and requirements:
      1.   The entrepreneur of every home occupation shall reside in the
dwelling unit in which the business operates.
      2.   All home occupation use activity conducted at the site of the home
occupation shall be conducted entirely within a completely enclosed dwelling
unit. Use of garage (detached or attached) or other building or structure
accessory to the principal building on the zoning lot for any home occupation
is expressly prohibited.
      3.   The home occupation shall not interfere with the delivery of
utilities or other services to the area.
      4.   The activity should not generate any noise, vibrations, smoke, dust,
odors, heat, glare, or interference with radio or television transmission in
the area that would exceed that normally produced by a dwelling unit in a
zoning district used solely for residential purposes.
      5.   No toxic, explosive, flammable, radioactive, or other hazardous
materials as defined by the BOCA basic fire prevention code as adopted in the
building code of the village, shall be used, sold, or stored on the site.
However, such materials common to ordinary household use are permitted,
provided the quantity of such materials does not exceed that found in ordinary
household use.
      6.   There shall be no alteration of the residential appearance of the
premises, including the creation of a separate or exclusive business entrance
(s) or placement of a sign.
      7.   Not more than one vehicle shall be used in connection with a home
occupation use. The home occupation vehicle must be of a type ordinarily used
for conventional private passenger transportation, i.e., passenger automobile,
or vans and pickup trucks not exceeding a payload capacity of one ton. Further,
the home occupation vehicle shall not, pursuant to the Illinois vehicle code,
require more than a class B license or be a vehicle included in the definition
of a second division vehicle by said code. ("Those vehicles which are designed
for carrying more than 10 persons, those designed or used for living quarters
and those vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying property,
freight, or cargo, those motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use
and used as motor vehicles of the second division used and registered as school
buses.")
      8.   No visitors in conjunction with the home occupation (clients,
patrons, pupils, salespersons, etc.) shall be permitted between the hours of
nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
      9.   No outdoor display or storage of materials, goods, supplies, or
equipment shall be allowed.
      10.   There shall be no advertising, signs, display, or other indications
of a home occupation in the yard, on the exterior of the dwelling unit or
visible from the exterior of the dwelling unit.
      11.   Direct sales and/or rentals of products off display shelves or
racks is not permitted.
      12.   The total interior floor area used for the home occupation shall
not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total interior floor area of the
dwelling, provided that in no case shall the area of a home occupation exceed
six hundred (600) square feet.
      13.   Only one person may be employed on the site in connection with the
home occupation who is not an actual resident of the dwelling unit.
      14.   Deliveries from commercial suppliers shall not be made by any
vehicle that exceeds a gross weight in pounds for vehicle and maximum load of
twenty thousand (20,000) pounds. Deliveries shall not restrict traffic
circulation and must occur between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) P.M. Monday through Friday.
      15.   Visitors in conjunction with the home occupation (clients, pupils,
sales persons, etc.) will be limited to no more than ten (10) during the daily
permitted period. No more than two (2) visitors may visit at one time.
      16.   More than one home occupation shall be permitted within any
individual dwelling unit, provided all other standards and criteria applicable
to home occupations are complied with. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   C.   Procedure For Application And Issuance:
      1.   Application for a home occupation permit shall be made to the
department of code enforcement on a form provided by the village. The
department of code enforcement will make a decision and notify the applicant in
writing within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date the application is
received.
      2.   In cases where the department of code enforcement determines that
the proposed home occupation will violate any of the provisions of this
ordinance, the application will be denied. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord.
98-2064, 12-21-1998)
      3.   All home occupation permits shall be valid for a period of three (3)
years from the initial date of approval unless sooner revoked.
      4.   A home occupation permit issued to one person shall not be
transferable to any other person, nor shall that permit be valid at any address
or home occupation other than the one appearing on the permit. (Ord. 92-1855,
12-14-1992)
      5.   Home occupation applicants and permit holders shall permit a
reasonable inspection of the premises by the department of code enforcement to
determine compliance with this ordinance.
   D.   Revocation: The department of code enforcement may revoke a permit upon
giving the owner and any interested persons who applied for the use at least
ten (10) days' written notice of the grounds for revocation and the opportunity
for an appeal before the zoning board of appeals at which time they may present
evidence bearing upon the question and cross examination of witnesses. The
grounds for which a permit may be revoked are: (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd.
Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
      1.   The owner or interested person applying for the use has knowingly
furnished false or misleading information or withheld relevant information on
any application for any use or knowingly suffered or caused another to furnish
or withhold such information on his or her behalf. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      2.   The owner, his agent, employee, officer, tenant, licensee or
occupant has violated any of the provisions of the development control
ordinance or the standards required to obtain the permit, or that the property
no longer complies with the standards necessary to obtain a permit; provided,
however, that the department of code enforcement shall give at least seven (7)
days' prior written notice to the owner of the alleged violation or manner in
which the property no longer complies with the standards with the opportunity
to correct the problem during said time.
   E.   Appeals: Appeals from any decision of the chief building and code
official and/or the department of code enforcement concerning the granting or
revocation of a use with administrative approval shall be to the zoning board
of appeals. The zoning board of appeals shall apply the foregoing standards and
requirements in reviewing a decision of the chief building and code official
and/or the department of code enforcement. Filing of an appeal from the
decision of the chief building and code official and/or the department of code
enforcement to revoke a permit will stay his decision pending the decision of
the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-
21-1998)
PART II
10-4-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Purpose And Scope: In order to relieve traffic congestion in the
streets, to minimize any detrimental effects of off street parking areas on
adjacent properties, and to ensure the proper and uniform development of
parking areas throughout the village, off street parking and loading spaces for
every use shall be provided in accordance with the standards established in
this ordinance. Nothing in this section shall prevent the voluntary
establishment of off street parking and loading facilities in excess of the
number required by this ordinance, provided that such facilities meet all
requirements of this ordinance.
   B.   Required Number Of Off Street Parking Spaces:
      1.   Table 4-2: Except as provided in subsection B2 of this section or
elsewhere in this ordinance, each principal and accessory use of land shall be
provided with at least the number of off street parking spaces indicated for
that use in table 4-2 of this section. When the intensity of use of any
structure or lot is increased through a change in use or the addition of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, or other units of
measurement used in table 4-2 of this section, additional parking facilities
shall be provided as required for the entire use as increased. When any
calculation results in a fraction of a parking space, any fraction up to one-
half (1/2) shall be disregarded and any fraction of one-half (1/2) or more
shall be considered a whole parking space. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      2.   Parking Exemption For The C1 District And MXD - Mixed Use
Commercial-Residential District: All uses in the C1 - village center and MXD -
mixed use commercial-residential districts shall be exempt from providing
required parking spaces as established in table 4-2 of this section. However,
if parking spaces are provided, they shall conform to all other applicable
requirements of this ordinance. Newly constructed buildings (e.g., tear down
developments) with dwelling units in the C1 - village center and MXD - mixed
use commercial- residential districts shall provide a minimum of one on site
parking stall per dwelling unit. (Ord. 15-2786, 2-23-2015)
      3.   Reduction In Parking Requirements For Existing Lots In The C2
District: In order to address parking deficiencies on existing lots in the C2 -
community shopping district, the property owner or tenant/occupant (with the
owner's consent) may petition the village for one or more elements of parking
relief, which may be approved by the village board pursuant to passage of an
ordinance after a public hearing is conducted by the village board with at
least fifteen (15) days' prior written notice mailed via United States first
class mail to all owners of record and taxpayers of record of lots within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the subject lot:
         a.   Provision Of Off Street/Off Site Alternate Parking: The applicant
must provide off street/off site alternate parking in close proximity to the
lot that eliminates or reduces the parking deficiency. Proof of the right to
use the off street/off site alternate parking, such as a parking lot agreement,
shall be required.
         b.   Shared Parking Lot Agreement Supported By A Shared Time Parking
Report Prepared By A Licensed Professional Engineer: The applicant must provide
a shared parking lot agreement that relates to one or more adjacent parking
lots and is supported by a shared time parking report demonstrating the overall
capacities of the parking lots based on daily peak and low parking usage for
the businesses that are served by the parking lots.
         c.   Conformance To Design And Construction Requirements: All parking
spaces shall conform to the other applicable design and construction
requirements of this ordinance. (Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015)
      TABLE 4-2
      SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS
  Parking Spaces Required
                                       Parking Spaces Required
Residential uses:                       
 Apartment hotel                      1 space per unit
                                       1 parking space for each detached
                                       single- family dwelling unit or in a
                                       multiple-family building containing not
                                       more than 4 dwelling units plus 1
                                       parking space per unit for each
                                       multiple-family building containing more
                                       than 4 dwelling units, provided,
                                       however, that up to 25 percent of said
 Continuing care retirement community spaces may be land banked until the need
                                       for such spaces is determined by the
                                       village. In addition, 1 parking space
                                       for each 3 assisted care units, plus the
                                       number of parking spaces otherwise
                                       required for a nursing home located on
                                       the premises, plus 3 parking spaces for
                                       every 5 employees anticipated at the
                                       largest shift for all uses other than
                                       the nursing home.
 Fraternities and dormitories         1 space per room plus 1 space per
                                       manager, employee
 Hotel/motel                          1 space per guestroom plus 1 space per
                                       employee on peak shift
 Multi-family dwellings               1.5 spaces per unit
 Rooming house                        2 spaces plus 1 space for each room for
                                       rent
 Single-family attached and detached  2 spaces per unit
  dwellings
 Two-family dwellings                 2 spaces per unit
Commercial/retail service uses:         
                                       1 space per 300 square feet of indoor
 Auto sales                           display area plus those spaces required
                                       for auto service, if any
 Auto service                         1 space per employee plus 2 spaces per
                                       service bay
 Car wash                             4 spaces per bay or stall plus 1 space
                                       per employee plus 10 stacking spaces
                                       10 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
 Fast food with drive-in              floor area plus 8 stacking spaces for
                                       the first window and 2 stacking for each
                                       additional window
 Fast food without drive-in           10 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                       floor area
 Freestanding stores and neighborhood 4 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
  centers (up to 200,000 square feet)  floor area
 Furniture, appliances, etc.          2 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                       floor area
 Grocery (food store)                 3.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                       floor area
 Medical/dental clinics               6 spaces per practitioner plus 1 per
                                       employee
 Personal services                    4 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                       floor area
 Regional shopping center (more than  5 spaces per 1,000 feet gross floor area
  200,000 square feet)
 Sit down restaurant                  13 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                       floor area
                                       1 space per 4 seats in parlor plus 1
 Undertaking establishments           space per 2 employees plus 1 space per
                                       vehicle used in connection with the
                                       enterprise
Office and institutional uses:          
                                       4 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
 Bank with drive-through facility     floor area plus 8 stacking spaces for
                                       the first window plus 2 stacking spaces
                                       for each additional window
 Financial/civic offices              4 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                       floor area
                                       1 space per 2 beds plus 1.5 spaces per 1
 Hospital/sanatorium                  emergency room bed plus 1 space per
                                       employee
 Office, business and professional    3 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
  services                             floor area
 Religious institution                1 space per 4 seats
Educational uses:                       
 College/university                   1 space per 2 employees plus 1 space per
                                       4 students based on maximum capacity
                                       2 spaces per 3 employees plus a
 Daycare center/nursery               sufficient number for others who may use
                                       the facility plus 1 space per 6 pupils
                                       based on maximum capacity
 High school                          1 space per employee plus 1 space per 8
                                       students
 K - 8th grades                       1 space per employee plus 8 spaces for
                                       visitors
Public/semipublic uses:                 
                                       2 spaces per 3 employees plus 1 space
 Dance/music/vocational/trade schools per maximum number of students as
                                       determined by the code enforcement
                                       officer
 Library                              3 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                       floor area
Cultural/entertainment uses:            
 Amusement establishments             1 space per 3 persons capacity plus 1
                                       space per employee
 Arena/stadium                        1 space per 4 seats plus 1 space per 2
                                       employees
 Bowling alley                        5 spaces per lane
 Club/lodge                           4 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                       floor area
 Cultural institutions and museums    3.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                       floor area
 Golf course                          60 spaces per 9 holes plus 1 space per 2
                                       employees
 Gym/health club                      5 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                       floor area
 Swimming pool or natatorium          1 space per 6 persons at capacity plus 1
                                       space per employee
 Tennis club                          4 spaces per court
 Theater                              1 space per 4 seats plus 1 space per
                                       employee
Industrial uses:                        
 Manufacturing, research and          1 space per 1.5 employees plus 1 space
  development, utility                 per company vehicle
                                       1 space per 1,000 square feet gross
                                       floor area for the first 20,000 square
                                       feet plus 1 space per 2,000 square feet
 Warehouse                            gross floor area for the second 20,000
                                       to 40,000 square feet plus 1 space per
                                       4,000 square feet gross floor area for
                                       building area above 40,000 square feet
                                       gross floor area
Transportation/communication:           
                                       As recommended by the department of code
 Airport/bus/rail facilities          enforcement to the village manager and
                                       subject to approval by the village board
 Radio/TV/studio                      1 space per employee
 
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998; Ord. 04-2308, 9-13-
2004; Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015)
   C.   Location Of Parking Spaces:
      1.   To limit parking in front of single-family dwellings, in the A, R1,
R2, and R3 districts parking shall be permitted within front and corner side
yards only on driveways not exceeding twenty two feet (22') in width. No more
than three (3) vehicles may be parked on driveways within front or corner side
yards for more than eight (8) continuous hours. In addition, no right of way
area adjacent to the lot may be used for parking.
      2.   Except as provided for below, all required parking spaces shall be
located on the same zoning lot as the principal use. In nonresidential
districts off site parking may be used to satisfy the parking requirements if
such off site parking facility conforms to the following:
         a.   Such facility is within three hundred feet (300') walking
distance of said structure or use;
         b.   Such facility is located in a zoning district where such
facilities are allowed as a permitted use or conditional use;
         c.   Such facility is on a lot owned by the same party as the lot on
which the structure or use to be served is located;
         d.   A covenant running with the land and prohibiting any other use of
the lot, naming the village as a beneficiary of the covenant, is recorded in
the office of the recorder of deeds or registrar of titles of Cook County for
the lot on which the parking facility is located;
         e.   A copy of the recorded covenant, certified by the recorder of
deeds or registrar of titles, is filed with the village manager; and
         f.   The covenant required under subsection C2d of this section shall
not be released until such time as one of the following conditions occurs: 1)
the use served by the required off street parking is terminated and the
structure housing that use is removed; 2) the required off street parking is
provided on the same lot as that on which the structure or use served is
located; or 3) another lot meeting all the requirements set forth in subsection
C2d of this section is used to provide the required parking. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-
14-1992)
      3.   With the exception of situations where parking is the principal use
on a parcel, parking shall not be permitted within front or corner side yards
in the C1 district. (Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003)
   D.   Size Of Required Parking Spaces And Aisles:
      1.   The minimum size of off street parking spaces shall conform to the
requirements established on table 4-3 of this chapter. Parking spaces may be
shortened by two feet (2') with the approval of the department of code
enforcement to allow for car overhang extending over a landscape area. Such
parking spaces must be bounded by a continuous concrete curb which meets
village standards. Spaces designated and marked for handicapped parking shall
be at least sixteen feet (16') wide. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-
2064, 12-21-1998)
      2.   Any aisle providing access to required parking spaces shall be at
least the width designated in table 4-3 of this chapter, based on the angle of
parking provided and whether the aisle serves one or two (2) rows of parking
spaces.
      3.   Enclosed parking spaces shall have a vertical clearance of at least
seven feet (7'). (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   E.   Design And Maintenance:
      1.   Off street parking facilities may be open to the sky or enclosed in
a building, except in the SFA single-family attached district where they must
be enclosed. (Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003)
      2.   A required off street parking space shall open directly upon an
aisle or driveway. All off street parking facilities shall be provided with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a public street or alley.
      3.   All open, off street parking areas, excluding driveways for single-
family and two-family dwellings, shall be improved with a compacted macadam
base not less than six inches (6") thick, or equal, and surfaced with not less
than two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete or comparable hard surfaced, all
weather, dustless material, as approved by the village engineer.
      4.   For any open, nonresidential off street parking area containing more
than four (4) parking spaces, wheel stops of Portland cement concrete curbing
not less than six inches (6") in height shall be placed two feet (2') into the
required length of the space. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      5.   Illumination of an off street parking area shall be arranged so as
not to reflect direct rays of light into adjacent residential districts and
streets so as not to create a nuisance. In no case shall such lighting cause
more than one-half (0.5) foot-candle of light to fall on adjacent properties as
measured horizontally at the lot line. (Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003)
      6.   Required off street parking facilities shall be solely for the
parking of automobiles of patrons, occupants or employees. When bus
transportation is provided for patrons, occupants or employees of a specific
establishment, additional open or enclosed off street parking spaces for each
bus to be parked on the premises shall be provided. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      7.   Except for commercial commuter parking lots used in conjunction with
automobile service stations, parking lots shall not be used for the storage of
cars not in use in conjunction with the principal use of the lot. In the case
of automobile service stations, cars awaiting repair may be stored on site for
a period not to exceed thirty (30) days. In no case shall accessory parking be
used to store trucks, buses, or construction vehicles/equipment. (Ord. 93-1885,
12-20-1993)
      8.   No motor vehicle repair work of any kind, other than noncommercial
repairs or repairs to one's own vehicle, shall be permitted in off street
parking areas. Short term emergency road service is permitted.
      9.   Any landscaped area provided in a parking area shall not contain
bare soil; any ground area shall be covered with mulch, grass, or other
vegetative ground cover.
      10.   All parking lots shall be illuminated as needed to accommodate
public safety in relation to the use being served.
   F.   Parking Lot Landscaping And Buffering Requirements: Off street parking
areas shall be separated from the street and from abutting properties and
landscaped in accordance with the requirements of section
10-4-9 of this chapter.
   G.   Parking Garages And Structures: All parking spaces contained within a
multilevel garage, including basement and rooftop parking, are hereby
designated as conditional uses in all districts and are subject to the
provisions of section
10-3-14 of this ordinance. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   H.   Commercial Commuter Parking Lots: All commercial commuter parking lots
shall comply with the off street parking requirements, including parking lot
landscaping and buffering requirements contained in this development control
ordinance. (Ord. 93-1885, 12-20-1993)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7efaaabc0b80376f61b739c2a5b142f3b239a02e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2037.gif]
 
   Table 4-3
   PARKING SIZE REQUIREMENTS
Parking   Space Width        Space Depth               Module
Angle     Parallel To Aisle  To Wall       Wall To Wall Aisle Width
(Degrees)       (Ft-In)    (Ft-In)    (Ft-In) (Ft-In)
Parking          Space Width        Space Depth               Module
Angle            Parallel To Aisle  To Wall       Wall To Wall Aisle Width
(Degrees)              (Ft-In)    (Ft-In)    (Ft-In) (Ft-In)
45 Degrees       12' - 9"           17' - 4"      13' - 0"     47' - 8"
9' - 0"                                                      
60 Degrees       10' - 5"           19' - 0"      17' - 0"     55' - 0"
9' - 0"                                                      
90 Degrees       9' - 0"            18' - 0"      24' - 0"     60' - 0"
9' - 0"                                                      
Parallel Parking 24' - 0"           9' - 0"       24' - 0"     n/a
24' - 0"                                                     
 
 
Legend:                  
a Parking angle         d Aisle width
b Space width           e Width parallel to aisle
c Depth to wall or curb f Wall to wall (curb to curb)
 
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-4-8: OFF STREET LOADING:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Location And Screening: All required loading berths, including
outdoor refuse storage areas, shall be located on the same zoning lot as the
use served. All motor vehicle loading berths in a residence district or the O
limited office district shall be screened by building walls, or a uniformly
painted solid noncombustible fence, wall, or door, or densely planted mature
shrubbery or any combination thereof, not less than six feet (6') in height.
Loading berths and outdoor refuse storage areas in other districts which abut
property in the aforementioned districts or are separated from such districts
by a public right of way, shall likewise be screened from view from such
abutting property and adjacent public right(s) of way. In all districts, no
loading berths shall be located in a required front, corner side or side yard.
Loading berths located in a rear yard may be open to the sky. (Ord. 03-2266,
10-27-2003)
      2.   Size: This ordinance provides for two (2) sizes of loading berths,
short berths and long berths. The number of loading berths required, whether
short or long berths, is identified in table 4-4 of this chapter. The vertical
clearance of all berths shall be not less than fifteen feet (15'). The size of
short and long loading berths shall conform to the following:
         a.   Short Berths: The size of berths, maneuvering aprons, and access
aisles shall be as follows:
            (1)   Berth Size: Short berths shall have a minimum width of twelve
feet (12') and a minimum length of thirty feet (30').
            (2)   Maneuvering Apron: A maneuvering apron of sixty feet (60')
shall be provided.
            (3)   Access Aisles: A width of at least twelve feet (12') shall be
provided for one-way aisles and twenty two feet (22') for two-way aisles.
         b.   Long Berths: The size of berths, maneuvering aprons and access
aisles shall be as follows:
            (1)   Berth Size: Long berths shall have a minimum width of twelve
feet (12') and a minimum length of fifty feet (50').
            (2)   Maneuvering Apron: A maneuvering apron of sixty feet (60')
shall be provided.
            (3)   Access Aisles: A width of at least fourteen feet (14') shall
be provided for one-way aisles and twenty four feet (24') for two-way aisles.
      3.   Access: Each required off street loading berth shall be designed
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner
which will least interfere with traffic movement, and shall be subject to
approval by the code enforcement officer.
      4.   Surfacing: All open off street loading berths shall be paved with
asphalt, concrete or other dustless all weather material capable of bearing a
live load of two hundred (200) pounds per square foot.
      5.   Repair And Service: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any
district, except that:
         a.   Emergency repair service necessary to start vehicles shall be
permitted in all districts; and
         b.   Washing of accessory vehicles shall be permitted in the ORI
district.
      6.   Utilization: Space allocated to any off street loading use shall
not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirement for any off
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
      7.   Central Loading: Central loading facilities may be substituted for
loading berths on individual zoning lots provided the following conditions are
fulfilled:
         a.   Each zoning lot served shall have direct access to the central
loading area without crossing streets or alleys at- grade by means of a ramp or
tunnel.
         b.   Total off-street loading berths provided shall meet the minimum
requirements herein specified, based on the sum of the several types of uses
served. (Area of types of uses may be totaled before computing number of
loading berths.)
         c.   No zoning lot served shall be more than five hundred feet (500')
removed from the central loading area.
         d.   The tunnel or ramp connecting a central loading area with the
zoning lot served shall be not less than seven feet (7') in width and have a
clearance of not less than seven feet (7').
      8.   Minimum Facilities: Uses for which off-street loading facilities are
required herein, but which are located in buildings of less floor area than the
minimum prescribed for such required facilities, shall be provided with
adequate receiving facilities, accessible by motor vehicle off any adjacent
alley, service drive, or open space on the same zoning lot.
   B.   Number And Type Of Loading Berths Required: The number and type of
loading berths required shall conform to the requirements set forth on Table 4-
4, below.
   Table 4-4
   SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
                                                  
Use                        Gross Floor Area        No. Of Berths And Size*
                           (Square Feet)
                                                  
RESIDENTIAL                                        
                                                  
Hotel, motel, dormitory,   10,000 - 100,000        One short
fraternity, convalescent   each additional 100,000 One short
or nursing home and                                
elderly housing                                    
                                                  
Multi-family               30,000 - 100,000        One short
                          each additional 200,000 One short
                                                  
COMMERCIAL                                         
                                                  
Personal services,         10,000 - 25,000         Two short
restaurants                25,000 - 40,000         Two long
                          40,000 - 100,000        Three long
                          each additional 200,000 One long
                                                  
Retail, wholesale          5,000 - 10,000          One short
                                                  
SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONS                          
                                                  
Banks, civic buildings,    10,000 - 100,000        One short
offices, business services each additional 100,000 One short
                          up to 500,000           One short
                                                  
Hospitals                  10,000 - 100,000        One short
                                                  
SCHOOLS                                            
                                                  
Arena, stadium,            10,000 - 20,000         One short
auditorium, convention     20,000 - 100,000        One long
hall, amusement            each additional 100,000 One long
establishment                                      
                                                  
Elementary, secondary,     10,000 - 100,000        One short
college or university      each additional 100,000 One short
                                                  
Theater                    10,000 - 25,000         One short
                           each additional 50,000  One short
                                                  
INDUSTRIAL                                         
                                                  
Manufacturing, ware-       5,000 - 10,000          One short
housing and research       10,000 - 40,000         One long
and development            40,000 - 100,000        Two long
                          each additional 100,000 One long
                                                  
TRANSPORTATION/COMMUNICATION**                      
                                                  
Air/bus/rail,              10,000 - 40,000         One short
utilities, TV and          40,000 - 100,000        One long, one short
radio studios              each additional 100,000 One long
                                                  
Cartage and freight        5,000 - 40,000          One long
facility                   40,000 - 100,000        Two long
                          each additional 100,000 One long
 
                                        
*   Berth (Loading Dock) Dimensions:
Short = 10 ft. wide x 35 ft. deep
Long = 12 ft. wide x 50 ft. deep
**   Gross floor areas refer to buildings or structures on premises.
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
PART III
10-4-9: LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The landscaping and screening requirements specified herein
are intended to foster aesthetically pleasing development which will protect
and preserve the appearance, character, health, safety, and welfare of the
community. Specifically, these regulations are intended to increase the
compatibility of adjacent uses, and, in doing so, minimize the harmful impact
of noise, dust and other debris, motor vehicle headlight glare or other
artificial light intrusions, and other objectionable activities or impacts
conducted or created by an adjoining or nearby use.
   B.   Enforcement Of Landscape Requirements: Wherever the submission and
approval of a landscape plan is required by this Ordinance, such landscape plan
shall be an integral part of any application for an occupancy permit. No
occupancy permit shall be issued without Village approval of a landscape plan
as required herein. Failure to implement the approved landscape plan shall be
cause for revocation of the occupancy permit. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   C.   Landscape Plan:
      1.   Landscape Plan Required: A landscape plan shall be required for all
exterior construction and development activity. Such landscape plan shall be
drawn in conformance with the requirements specified in this Section. Landscape
plans must be approved by the Department of Code Enforcement prior to the
issuance of a building permit for exterior construction and development.
Landscape plans for planned developments or conditional uses shall also be
reviewed and approved by the Plan Commission and Village Board. The
construction of detached single-family residences and accessory buildings shall
be exempt from this requirement. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064,
12-21-1998)
      2.   Content Of Landscape Plan: All landscape plans submitted for
approval shall contain or have attached thereto the following information:
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
         a.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, parking lots and drives, roadways and rights of way, sidewalks,
bicycle paths, ground signs, refuse disposal areas, bicycle parking areas,
fences, freestanding electrical equipment, tot lots and other recreational
facilities, and other freestanding structural features as determined necessary
by the Department of Code Enforcement. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-
2064, 12-21-1998)
         b.   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and common
names, of all proposed planting materials.
         c.   The location of existing buildings, structures and plant
materials on adjacent property within one hundred feet (100') of the site.
         d.   Existing and proposed grading of the site, including proposed
berming, indicating contours, at one foot (1') intervals.
         e.   Specification of the type and boundaries of all proposed ground
cover.
         f.   Elevations of all fences proposed for location on the site. (Ord.
92-1855, 12-14-1992)
         g.   Elevations, cross-sections and other details as determined
necessary by the Department of Code Enforcement. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992;
amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
   D.   Selection, Installation, And Maintenance Of Plant Materials:
      1.   Selection: Planting materials used in conformance with the
provisions of this Section shall be of good quality, of a species normally
grown in northeastern Illinois, and capable of withstanding the extremes of
individual site microclimates. Size and density of plant material, both at the
time of planting and at maturity, are additional criteria which must be
considered when selecting plant materials.
      2.   Installation: All landscaping materials shall be installed in
accordance with the current planting procedures established by the American
Association of Nurserymen.
      3.   Maintenance:
         a.   Responsibility: The owner of the premises shall be responsible
for the maintenance, repair, and replacement of all landscaping materials and
barriers, including refuse disposal areas, as may be required by the provisions
of this Section.
         b.   Landscaping Materials: All landscaping materials shall be
maintained in good condition so as to present a healthy, neat and orderly
appearance, and plant material not in this condition shall be replaced when
necessary and shall be kept free of refuse and debris.
         c.   Fences And Walls: Fences, walls, and other barriers shall be
maintained in good repair.
   E.   Design Criteria: Landscape plans described above shall be prepared
based on the following design criteria. The evaluation and approval of
landscape plans shall also be based on these design criteria.
      1.   Scale And Nature Of Landscaping Material: The scale and nature of
landscaping materials should be appropriate to the size of the structures.
Large scaled buildings, for example, should generally be complemented by larger
scaled plants.
      2.   Selection Of Plant Material: Plant material should be selected for
its form, texture, color, and concern for its ultimate growth. The use of
Silver Maples, Box Elders, Russian Olives, Tree of Heaven, Mulberry Poplars,
and other weak wooded species should be avoided.
      3.   Evergreens: Evergreens should be incorporated into the landscape
treatment of a site, particularly in those areas screening parking lots from
dedicated public rights of way or property zoned for residential use.
      4.   Shade Trees: All shade trees shall have a minimum trunk size of two
and one-half inches (21/2") in diameter upon installation, as measured six
inches (6") above the established ground level.
      5.   Softening Of Walls And Fences: Plant material should be placed
intermittently against long expanses of building walls, fences, and other
barriers to create a softening effect.
      6.   Planting Beds: Planting beds should be mulched with bark chips,
feather rocks, or similar materials.
      7.   Detention/Retention Basins And Ponds: Detention/retention basins and
ponds shall be landscaped. Such landscaping should include shade and ornamental
trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other planting materials.
      8.   Watering Plant Material: A permanent means of watering plant
material should be provided. Installation of an automatic underground
sprinkling system is recommended.
      9.   Energy Conservation:
         a.   Deciduous trees should be placed on the south and west sides of
buildings to provide shade from the summer sun.
         b.   Evergreens and other plant materials should be concentrated on
the north side of buildings to dissipate the effect of winter winds. (Ord. 92-
1855, 12-14-1992)
      10.   Preservation Of Existing Plant Material: Existing plant material
should, wherever practical as determined by the Director of Code Enforcement,
be incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site.
      11.   Berming: Earthen berms and existing topography should be, whenever
determined practical by the Department of Code Enforcement, incorporated into
the landscape treatment of a site, particularly when combined with plant
material to facilitate screening. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064,
12-21-1998)
   F.   Right-Of-Way Landscaping:
      1.   Applicability: Where a parcel abuts a dedicated public right of way,
landscaping shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of this
Section.
      2.   Graded And Sodded: The unpaved portion of a public right of way
shall be fine graded and sodded.
      3.   Parkway Trees:
         a.   Quantity: Parkway trees shall be provided at the equivalent of
not more than forty feet (40') apart in the right of way adjacent to the
parcel. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
         b.   Spacing: Such trees may be clustered or spaced linearly in the
right of way as determined appropriate by the Department of Code Enforcement.
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
         c.   Size: Parkway trees shall have a minimum trunk size of two and
one-half inches (21/2") in diameter, as measured six inches (6") above the
established ground level.
         d.   Species: Parkway trees shall be limited to the following species.
However, a variety of compatible species from this list should be included in
the planting plan for a specific site or development:
            (1)   Linden.
            (2)   Maple (excluding Silver Maple and other similar softwood
species).
            (3)   Hackberry.
            (4)   Ginkgo.
            (5)   Oak.
            (6)   Ash.
            (7)   Thornless Honeylocust (cultivars).
            (8)   Callery (Bradford) Pear. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
            (9)   Other species of trees as determined appropriate by the
Department of Code Enforcement. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064,
12-21-1998)
         e.   Other Landscape Material: No plant material or barriers, except
as specified herein, may be located in a dedicated public right of way. (Ord.
92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   G.   Parking Lot Landscaping:
      1.   Applicability: All parking lots shall provide landscaping in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      2.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping:
         a.   Area Required: In parking lots larger than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet in size, not less than five percent (5%) of the interior of a
parking lot shall be devoted to landscaping. Landscaping areas located along
the perimeter of a parking lot as required in subsections G3 and G4 of this
section shall not be included toward satisfying this requirement. In parking
lots ten thousand (10,000) square feet or less in size, interior landscaping is
not required.
         b.   Landscaped Areas: The landscaped areas defined in subsection G2a
of this section, shall be delineated and improved in conformance with the
following:
            (1)   Planting Area: Interior parking lot landscaping areas
(planting islands) shall be dispersed throughout the parking lot in a design
and configuration satisfactory to the department of code enforcement. Corner
planting islands at the entrances and dead ends of any parking lot do not count
toward satisfying the interior lot requirement. (See figure 4 in appendix C of
this ordinance.)
            (2)   Size Of Planting Area: Interior parking lot landscaping areas
shall be a minimum of one hundred twenty (120) square feet in area and shall be
a minimum of seven feet (7') in width, as measured from back of curb to back of
curb.
            (3)   Landscape Material: The plant material used to improve the
landscape areas defined above shall conform to the following:
               (A)   Type: The primary plant materials used in parking lots
shall be shade tree species in conformance with subsections E2 and E4 of this
section. Ornamental trees, shrubbery, hedges, and other plant materials may be
used to supplement the shade tree plantings, but shall not be the sole
contribution to such landscaping.
               (B)   Quantity: One shade tree shall be provided for every one
hundred twenty (120) square feet of landscaping area.
               (C)   Ground Cover: A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of every
interior parking lot landscaping area shall be improved with approved ground
cover, as determined appropriate by the department of code enforcement. Any
area not covered with an approved ground cover shall be mulched.
      3.   Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping For Lots Greater Than Ten Thousand
Square Feet: Where a parking lot is located within a required yard, or within
twenty feet (20') of a lot line, perimeter landscaping shall be required along
the corresponding edge of the parking lot in conformance with the following
provisions: (See figure 5 in appendix C of this ordinance.)
         a.   Landscape Area: Where perimeter landscaping is required, it shall
be provided within landscape areas at least six feet (6') in width, as measured
from the back of curb and excluding any parking space overhang area.
         b.   Requirements Along Front And Corner Side Yards:
            (1)   Across From Residential Property: Where a parking lot is
located across a dedicated public right of way from property zoned for
residential use the following landscape improvements shall be required:
               (A)   Plant Material: Continuous landscaping of evergreen or
dense deciduous shrubs shall be provided across one hundred percent (100%) of
the street frontage to a minimum height of four feet (4'). The height of such
shrubs may be reduced if berming is provided so that the combined height of
shrubs and berming is not less than four feet (4'). The maximum slope for a
berm is eight to one (8:1) (12 percent) for grassed areas and four to one (4:1)
(25 percent) for planted areas that do not require mowing. In addition, shade
or ornamental trees shall be provided within this landscape area, with the
number of trees not less than one tree per fifty feet (50') of frontage with
the number of trees required, rounded to the nearest whole number. Additional
plantings may be provided, subject to the approval of the department of code
enforcement. All landscaping described above shall conform to section
10-4-3 of this chapter.
               (B)   Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds, all
landscaping areas located in front and corner side yards shall be sodded or
planted with another comparable ground cover as determined appropriate by the
department of code enforcement.
            (2)   Across From Nonresidential Property: Where a parking lot is
located across a dedicated public right of way from property zoned for
nonresidential use the following landscape improvements shall be required:
               (A)   Plant Material: Landscaping of evergreen or dense
deciduous shrubs shall be provided across at least fifty percent (50%) of the
street frontage to a minimum height of four feet (4'). The height of such
shrubs may be reduced if berming is provided so that the combined height of
shrubs and berming is not less than four feet (4'). The maximum slope for a
berm is eight to one (8:1) (12 percent) for grassed areas and four to one (4:1)
(25 percent) for planted areas that do not require mowing. Additional plantings
may be provided, subject to the approval of the department of code enforcement.
All landscaping described above shall conform to section
10-4-3 of this chapter.
               (B)   Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds, all
landscaping areas located in front and corner side yards shall be sodded or
planted with another comparable ground cover as determined appropriate by the
department of code enforcement.
         c.   Requirements Along Rear And Interior Side Yards:
            (1)   Plant Material: Where a parking lot abuts property zoned for
residential use, the requirements of subsections G3a and G3b of this section
shall apply. Where a parking lot abuts property zoned for nonresidential use,
landscaping shall be provided across at least fifty percent (50%) of that
portion of the parking lot abutting the property line to a minimum height of
four feet (4'). The height of such shrubs may be reduced if berming is provided
so that the combined height of shrubs and berming is not less than four feet
(4'). The maximum slope for a berm is eight to one (8:1) (12 percent) for
grassed areas and four to one (4:1) (25 percent) for planted areas that do not
require mowing. Such plantings shall be concentrated into shrub masses,
typically containing seven (7) to nine (9) shrubs per shrub mass. Additional
plantings may be provided, subject to the approval of the department of code
enforcement.
            (2)   Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds, all
side and rear yard perimeter parking lot landscaping shall be sodded, seeded or
planted with another comparable ground cover, as determined appropriate by the
department of code enforcement.
      4.   Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping For Lots Ten Thousand Square Feet
And Smaller: Where a parking lot is located within a required yard, or within
twenty feet (20') of a lot line, perimeter landscaping shall be required along
the corresponding edge of the parking lot in conformance with the following
provisions: (See figure 6 in appendix C of this ordinance.)
         a.   Landscape Area: Where perimeter landscaping is required, it shall
be provided within landscape areas at least three feet (3') in width, as
measured from the back of curb.
         b.   Requirements Along Front And Corner Side Yards:
            (1)   Across From Residential Property: Where a parking lot is
located across a dedicated public right of way from property zoned for
residential use the following landscape improvements shall be required:
               (A)   Three Foot To Six Foot Perimeter Planting Zone: Where the
planting zone at the perimeter of the parking lot falls within three feet (3')
and six feet (6') in width, the following improvements shall be required: (See
figures 7 and 8 in appendix C of this ordinance.)
                  (i) Fence And/Or Wall: A vertical screen of at least four
feet (4') in height shall be provided, utilizing a decorative fence or brick
wall (or combination thereof) along the entire length of property line. Fence
should be placed on the property line to maximize the planting area on the
interior of the lot. Owners of property immediately adjacent to the parking lot
are entitled to a one time landscape improvement fee of fifteen dollars
($15.00) per linear foot of contiguity along the parking lot to provide
appropriate plantings at the base of the fence on the residential side of the
property. The fence or wall must be double sided and have no "backside". Fence
construction and material to comply with section
10-4-4 of this chapter.
                  (ii) Plant Material: Continuous landscaping of evergreen or
dense deciduous shrubs and/or perennials shall be provided across one hundred
percent (100%) of the street frontage to a minimum height of four feet (4').
Neither berming nor grass is allowed. Shade or ornamental trees shall be
provided within this landscape area, only if the planting zone has a minimum
width of five feet (5') such as within a corner planting island in a dead end
parking lot. Additional plantings may be provided, subject to the approval of
the department of code enforcement. All landscaping described above shall
conform to section
10-4-3 of this chapter.
                  (iii) Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds,
all landscaping areas located in front and corner side yards shall be planted
with another comparable ground cover as determined appropriate by the
department of code enforcement. No grass shall be allowed.
               (B)   Six Foot Or Wider Perimeter Planting Zone: Where the
planting zone at the perimeter of the parking lot exceeds six feet (6') in
width, the following improvements shall be allowed in conjunction with
compliance with the requirements in the section immediately above:
                  (i) Fence And/Or Wall: The height of the fence may be reduced
if berming is provided so that the combined height of fence and berming is not
less than four feet (4'). The maximum slope for a berm is eight to one (8:1)
(12 percent) for grassed areas and four to one (4:1) (25 percent) for planted
areas that do not require mowing.
                  (ii) Plant Material: The height of plant material may be
reduced if berming is provided so that the combined height of shrubs and
berming is not less than four feet (4'). The maximum slope for a berm is eight
to one (8:1) (12 percent) for grassed areas and four to one (4:1) (25 percent)
for planted areas that do not require mowing. In addition, shade or ornamental
trees shall be provided within this landscape area, with the number of trees
not less than one tree per fifty feet (50') of frontage with the number of
trees required, rounded to the nearest whole number.
                  (iii) Ground Cover: Nonbermed perimeter landscaping areas may
be sodded in part, in conjunction with larger areas of ground cover, as
determined appropriate by the department of code enforcement.
            (2)   Across From Nonresidential Property: Where a parking lot is
located across a dedicated public right of way from property zoned for
nonresidential use the following landscape improvements shall be required:
               (A)   Plant Material: Landscaping of evergreen or dense
deciduous shrubs shall be provided across at least fifty percent (50%) of the
street frontage to a minimum height of four feet (4'). The height of such
shrubs may be reduced if berming is provided so that the combined height of
shrubs and berming is not less than four feet (4'). The maximum slope for a
berm is eight to one (8:1) (12 percent) for grassed areas and four to one (4:1)
(25 percent) for planted areas that do not require mowing. Berming is not
allowed in perimeter planting zones less than seven feet (7') in width.
Additional plantings may be provided, subject to the approval of the department
of code enforcement. All landscaping described above shall conform to section
10-4-3 of this chapter.
               (B)   Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds, all
landscaping areas located in front and corner side yards shall be sodded or
planted with another comparable ground cover as determined appropriate by the
department of code enforcement.
         c.   Requirements Along Rear And Interior Side Yards:
            (1)   Plant Material: Where a parking lot abuts property zoned for
residential use, the requirements of subsections G4a and G4b of this section
shall apply. Where a parking lot abuts property zoned for nonresidential use,
landscaping shall be provided across at least fifty percent (50%) of that
portion of the parking lot abutting the property line to a minimum height of
four feet (4'). The height of such shrubs may be reduced if berming is provided
so that the combined height of shrubs and berming is not less than four feet
(4'). Such plantings shall be concentrated into shrub masses, typically
containing seven (7) to nine (9) shrubs per shrub mass. Additional plantings
may be provided, subject to the approval of the department of code enforcement.
            (2)   Ground Cover: Except where occupied by planting beds, all
side and rear yard perimeter parking lot landscaping shall be sodded, seeded or
planted with another comparable ground cover, as determined appropriate by the
department of code enforcement. (Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003)
PART IV
10-4-10: GENERAL ILLUMINATION STANDARDS:
   A.   General Standards: Glare, light pollution and light trespass shall be
controlled at all times through proper equipment selection, careful aiming,
limits on brightness and adequate screening.
The village at its discretion may require corrective action for any lighting
installation that fails to meet the required lighting criteria or produces
unacceptable levels of light trespass, light pollution, and/or glare.
   B.   Fixture Specifications: All exterior luminaries, except decorative
fixtures approved by the code enforcement officer, shall be horizontally
mounted and have full cutoff optics with flat lenses, with no portion of the
lens protruding below the housing.
Ornamental lighting adjacent to residential zoned parcels shall have house
shields installed to reduce nuisance lighting. Privately owned seasonal holiday
lighting and village owned seasonal holiday lighting, decorative street,
parking and pedestrian lighting shall be exempt from this regulation.
   C.   Illumination Glare: Sources of light shall be directed, shaded,
shielded or otherwise arranged to minimize perceived glare from adjacent
properties.
   D.   Activity Levels: For the purpose of this section, the following
guidelines shall be used to determine the activity level for individual parking
lots:
      1.   High Activity Levels: Large parking lots (100 plus spaces) in which
a majority of the required parking spaces are occupied by employee and
customer/visitor vehicles after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. or small (up to 15
spaces) and medium (16-99 spaces) parking lots in which a majority of the
required parking spaces are occupied by employee/customer/visitor vehicles and
regular on site truck traffic is experienced or generated after six o'clock (6:
00) P.M.
      2.   Medium Activity Levels: Any parking lot in which a majority of the
required parking spaces are occupied by employee vehicles and regular on site
truck traffic is experienced or generated after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. or
small and medium parking lots in which the majority of the parking spaces are
occupied by employee and customer vehicles after six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
      3.   Low Activity Levels: Parking lots in which a majority of the
required parking spaces are not occupied by employees and/or customers after
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. or lots only occupied by employee vehicles after six
o'clock (6:00) P.M.
   TABLE 4-5
   PARKING ILLUMINATION STANDARDS
Permitted Illumination Standards For Vehicle Use Areas In Foot-Candles(fc)
 
Level       Minimum      Minimum Maximum
Of Activity At Any Point Average Average
Low         0.2fc        0.5fc   1.5fc
Medium      0.6fc        1fc     2fc
High        0.9fc        2fc     3fc (1)
 
Illumination average to minimum uniformity ratio for all parking lots shall be:
4:1
Maximum horizontal illumination level at lot lines adjacent to or across from
detached and attached single-family zoned properties: 0.1
Note:
            (1)   Except gasoline dispensing station canopies, which have a
maximum average illumination of 10fc (Illumination Engineering Society North
America RP33-99).
   E.   General Illumination Standards For Outdoor Residential Recreational
Facilities And Other Private Recreational Facilities: For the purpose of this
section, the following guidelines shall be used to determine the outdoor
lighting levels:
      1.   Outdoor Residential Recreational Facilities: Sufficient outdoor
lighting, if installed, shall be provided to enable use of the facility for the
intended purpose(s). However, when the lighting of an outdoor residential
recreational facility becomes a nuisance past nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., the
owner of the facility shall be required to turn off the lights and close the
recreational facility until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of the next day.
      2.   Other Uses: Sufficient outdoor lighting shall be provided to enable
the use of the private facility for the intended purpose(s). However, when the
lighting of the private facility becomes a nuisance past nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M., the owner of the private facility shall be required to turn off the
lights and close the private facility until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of the
next day.
   F.   Mounting Height Specification:
      1.   Parking Lots: Maximum luminaire mounting height for parking lot
lights adjacent to or across from residential zoned parcels shall be no higher
than twenty six feet (26'). In no case shall parking lot lighting exceed thirty
feet (30'). In transitional areas, lighting shall be of residential character,
shielded and/or directed to minimize perceived glare on surrounding residential
properties.
      2.   Residential: Freestanding luminaire mounting height for outdoor
residential recreational facilities shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in
height. Lighting shall be of residential character, shielded and/or directed to
minimize perceived glare on surrounding residential properties. Freestanding
ornamental lighting for ingress/egress is permitted in the required front or
rear yards but not closer than ten feet (10') from the lot line.
   G.   Holiday Lighting: Privately owned seasonal holiday lighting and village
owned seasonal holiday lighting, decorative street, parking and pedestrian
lighting shall be exempt from this regulation.
   H.   Plan Submission: Lighting plans, with respect to the uses governed by
subsections D and E of this section, shall be submitted to the department of
code enforcement for review. Lighting plans shall include lighting layout of
the proposed luminaire locations, including aiming angles, minimum and average
illuminances, uniformity ratios, locations and use of adjacent properties, lux/
foot-candle grid that demonstrates adequate intensities and uniformity are
achieved. Manufacturer's catalog cuts providing a description of the luminaires
including glare reduction/control devices, lamps, on-off cycle devices and
mounting devices. (Ord. 03-2229, 3-24-2003)
PART V
10-4-11: GENERAL APPLICATION:
   A.   Permitted Uses: All towers, antennas and personal wireless service
facilities located on property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the
village are permitted in any zoning district provided a license agreement or
lease agreement authorizing such towers, antennas or personal wireless service
facilities has been approved by the village and the other applicable provisions
of this ordinance are complied with, except that towers, and related personal
wireless service support facilities are not permitted in any village public
right of way within two hundred feet (200') of any habitable residential
building or structure. The installation and maintenance of antennas, nontower
personal wireless service facilities and related personal wireless service
support facilities such as the installation of Wi-Fi equipment and related
infrastructure, on light poles or utility poles located on property owned,
leased or otherwise controlled by the village is not subject to the two hundred
foot (200') setback regulation.
   B.   Conditional Uses: All towers, antennas and personal wireless service
facilities that are installed, erected or modified on property, other than
property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the village, after the
effective date hereof shall comply with the provisions of this ordinance and
are subject to approval as a conditional use pursuant to this development
control ordinance.
   C.   Preexisting Towers, Antennas And Personal Wireless Service Facilities:
Preexisting towers and preexisting antennas in place prior to the effective
date hereof shall not be required to meet the requirements of this ordinance,
unless the owner desires to modify or expand the tower, antenna or personal
wireless service facility. Any existing tower, antenna or personal wireless
service facility that is used exclusively for governmental or public safety
communications may be replaced or modified with a substantially similar
structure without meeting the requirements of this ordinance.
   D.   Regulation: This ordinance regulates the installation and maintenance
of "personal wireless service facilities", as defined below. Subsection
10-4-4C of this chapter regulates the installation and maintenance of antenna
structures, earth satellite stations and digital satellite stations covered in
that section. To the extent that such equipment is capable of being regulated
under either code provisions, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
(Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-12: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is: a) to ensure the provision of personal
wireless service within the corporate boundaries of, and for the benefit of,
the residents of the village; b) to protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the community, public and private property, and community
aesthetics; c) to minimize the visual impact of telecommunication towers,
antennas, personal wireless service facilities and associated buildings through
design and siting standards; d) to maximize the use of existing and approved
towers and buildings to accommodate multiple antennas in order to reduce the
number of towers needed to serve the community; e) to enhance the ability to
provide telecommunications services to the community quickly, effectively and
efficiently; f) to ensure that telecommunication towers, antennas, personal
wireless service facilities and associated buildings are compatible with
surrounding land uses; g) to ensure that telecommunications facilities, towers
and antennas do not compromise public safety communications; and h) to avoid
damage to adjacent properties from tower failure through structural standards
and setback requirements. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-13: DEFINITIONS:
The terms defined herein have the meanings given them whether the term is
capitalized or not:
ANTENNA: Any exterior transmitting or receiving devices mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals.
FAA: Federal aviation administration.
FCC: Federal communications commission.
MONOPOLE: A tower consisting of a single pole constructed without guywires or
ground anchors.
OWNER: Includes the person who owns, leases, manages or operates any tower,
antenna, and personal wireless service facility covered under this ordinance.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE: The providing or offering for rent, sale or lease or
in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of voice, data, image,
graphic and video programming information between or among points by wire,
cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar facilities,
with or without benefit of any closed transmission medium.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES (OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES): The
plant, equipment and property, including, but not limited to, cables, wires,
conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennas, towers, personal wireless service support
facilities, alternative tower structures, electronics and other appurtenances
used to transmit, receive, distribute, provide or offer personal wireless
services.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE SUPPORT FACILITIES: Support buildings, structures and
equipment cabinets containing electrical and mechanical equipment and devices
used for the reception of or transmission of voice, data image, graphic and
video programming information between or among points by wire, cable, fiber
optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar facilities and the
perimeter security fencing that surrounds such equipment, buildings or
structures.
TOWER: Any structure designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of
supporting one or more antennas. The term includes radio and television
transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular
telephone towers, water towers and other similar structures. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-
22-2007)
10-4-14: LOCATION:
Towers, antennas, and personal wireless service facilities shall be located on
lawfully preexisting antenna support structures or other lawfully preexisting
buildings or structures wherever possible. No permit or conditional use permit
authorizing construction of a new tower, antenna or personal wireless service
facility or addition to or expansion of an existing antenna support structure
or existing building or structure shall be authorized unless the applicant is
able to demonstrate that no lawfully preexisting antenna support structure or
lawfully preexisting building or structure is available, on commercially
reasonable terms, and sufficient for the location of an antenna necessary for
the provision of personal wireless services. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-15: COLLOCATION:
Unless otherwise authorized by the board of trustees for good cause shown,
every new tower, antenna, or personal wireless service facility shall be
designed, constructed and installed to be of a sufficient size and capacity to
allow the location of additional personal wireless services antennas to
accommodate at least one additional personal wireless service provider on such
structure in the future. Any permit or conditional use permit for such a
support structure may be conditioned upon the agreement of the applicant to
allow collocation of other personal wireless service providers on commercially
reasonable terms specified in such permit or conditional use permit. The
placement of additional antennas or personal wireless service facilities to a
support tower and the related construction of new equipment structure shall not
require an amended conditional use permit or a new conditional use permit,
provided that the antennas or personal wireless service facilities and the new
equipment structure are substantially similar in design and size to the
existing equipment and structures. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-16: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
Every new tower, antenna, or personal wireless service facility shall:
   A.   Be a monopole rather than latticework, unless otherwise authorized by
the board of trustees (village board) for good cause shown.
   B.   Not be illuminated or have any signs installed thereon unless otherwise
required by federal law or regulations.
   C.   The minimum setback from any habitable residential building or
structure, for a tower, antenna, personal wireless service facility or personal
wireless service support facility shall be one hundred fifty feet (150'). The
minimum setback shall be measured by drawing or following a straight line
between the closest portion of the building or structure and the closest
portion of the personal wireless service facility or the personal wireless
service support facility. The village board may reduce the standard setback
requirements if the goals of this ordinance would be better served by the
reduction.
   D.   There shall be a minimum separation distance of five hundred feet
(500') between towers, which shall be measured between the proposed tower and
all preexisting towers. The separation distance shall be measured by drawing or
following a straight line between the base of the existing tower and the
proposed base, pursuant to a site plan, of the proposed tower. The village
board may reduce the separation distance requirement if the goals of this
ordinance would be better served by the reduction.
   E.   The height limitations in all zoning districts for all roof mounted or
building mounted antennas shall not exceed twenty feet (20') above the height
of the roof of an existing building structure. All roof mounted antennas shall
be constructed as stealth antennas incorporated into upward thrusting
architectural building elements such as a church steeple, spire, bell tower,
smokestack or radio tower and made to blend into the design, color and contours
of the building. Roof mounted antennas shall be screened from view from
residentially zoned property and any public right of way with a roof structure,
parapet wall or a solid surface that is constructed to blend into the design,
color and contours of the building.
   F.   Antennas mounted on the sides of buildings shall be constructed as
stealth antennas and be attached flush with the side of the building and shall
not protrude more than two feet (2') from the side of the building. Such
antennas shall not encroach into or overhang any adjacent lot or public right
of way and shall be mounted in a manner that blends into the design, color and
contours of the building.
   G.   The height limitations in all zoning districts for new tower
construction shall not exceed one hundred feet (100'). The height shall include
all parts of the tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility measured
from the base. The maximum height of any tower, antenna or personal wireless
service facility shall be certified by the applicant's engineer as part of the
application. The village board may increase the maximum height restriction as
part of the conditional use permit approval process if the goals of this
ordinance would be better served by the adjustment.
   H.   No antenna or tower shall have constructed thereon or attached thereto
any platform, catwalk, crow's nest, or like structure for the purpose of human
support except during periods of construction and repair.
   I.   Landscaping, lighting, fencing and screening shall be incorporated into
the site accommodating the tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility
and its accessory equipment structures. A landscape plan, fence plan and
screening plan shall be submitted to the village for approval as part of the
permit or conditional use permit process in accordance with the criteria below.
The village board may reduce the landscape, fence and screening requirements if
the goals of this ordinance would be better served by the reduction.
      1.   Fencing: All accessory equipment structures adjacent to an antenna
system and/or tower shall have perimeter security cyclone fencing with
screening materials or the fence shall be a solid wood fence or masonry fence.
The fencing shall be not less than six feet (6') in height and shall also be
equipped with an acceptable anticlimbing device or design. There shall be
landscape materials planted around the perimeter fence.
      2.   Landscaping: The following requirements shall govern the landscaping
surrounding telecommunications facilities for which a permit or conditional use
permit is required.
         a.   The personal wireless service support facilities for a tower or
antenna shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant materials that effectively
screens the view of the ground based facilities from residentially zoned
property and any public right of way. The standard buffer shall consist of a
landscaped strip at least four feet (4') wide outside the perimeter of the
facility. The landscape materials shall conform to the requirements of
subsection
10-4-4C3c of this chapter.
         b.   In locations where the visual impact of the facility would be
minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived.
         c.   Existing mature tree growth and natural land forms on the site
shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as
towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property
perimeter may be a sufficient buffer. No tower or other telecommunications
facility shall be located on a wetland as designated by local, state or federal
authorities.
      3.   Lighting: The lighting for any accessory equipment structures shall
not exceed 0.1 candle foot at the property line for the site. The lighting
design shall conform to the requirements of the illumination standards of the
village code, as amended.
   J.   The tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility shall be of a
neutral color such as light gray or sky blue except as dictated by the federal
aviation administration (FAA) and be designed to minimize visibility and to
blend into the surrounding environment.
   K.   All accessory equipment structures shall be architecturally designed
and constructed of exterior building materials and colors to be compatible and
harmonious with: 1) the natural features of the surrounding environment or 2)
buildings and other structures in the immediate area.
   L.   Towers and/or antennas shall be constructed of or treated with
corrosive resistant material. A regular maintenance schedule shall be submitted
to the village and be followed by the owner of the tower, antenna or personal
wireless service facility.
   M.   For purposes of determining whether the installation of any tower,
antenna or personal wireless service facility complies with this ordinance,
including, but not limited to, setback requirements, separation requirements,
and other such requirements, the dimensions of the entire zoning lot shall
control, even though the telecommunications facilities may be located on a
leased parcel within such lot. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-17: EQUIPMENT ENCLOSURES:
All electronic and other related equipment and appurtenances necessary for the
operation of any tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility shall,
whenever possible, be located within a lawfully preexisting structure or
completely below grade. When a new structure is required to house such
equipment, such structures shall be architecturally designed and constructed of
exterior building materials and colors to be compatible and harmonious with: a)
the natural features of the surrounding environment or b) buildings and other
structures in the immediate area. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-18: LICENSES AND PERMITS:
The owner of every tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility shall
submit to the village manager copies of all licenses and permits required by
other agencies and governments with jurisdiction over the design, construction,
location and operation of such tower, antenna or personal wireless service
facility and shall maintain such licenses and permits and provide evidence of
renewal or extension thereof when granted. These licenses and permits must be
part of any permit or conditional use permit application for a new tower,
antenna or personal wireless service facility. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-19: APPLICATION; PLANS FOR CONSTRUCTION:
Applicants proposing to erect a tower, antenna or personal wireless service
facility shall follow procedures as set forth in this ordinance. Additional
application materials shall include the following and other relevant documents
reasonably requested by the village:
   A.   An application for the permitted use or conditional use to erect a
tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility. The application shall
provide the name, address and telephone number of the owner, lessor and lessee
of the parcel of land as well as for the owner and operator of the tower,
antenna or personal wireless service facility which is the subject of the
application. If the applicant is not the owner of the parcel of land, the
written consent of the owner shall be evidenced in the application. Upon
issuance of a permit or conditional use permit, the owner shall provide the
village with written notice of any change in ownership or leasehold interest
within thirty (30) days of such change and shall also provide the contact
information for the new owner or lessee.
   B.   A "scaled" site plan which shows property lines, location of tower,
antenna or personal wireless service facility, setback distances, any accessory
equipment structures, fencing, screening and landscaping proposed as well as
any utility improvements that are required to serve the site.
   C.   Photographs of the proposed site and an architect's or engineer's
sketch, concept, or rendition of the site as proposed which demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the village board the structural dimensions of the tower,
antenna or personal wireless service facility (including, but not limited to,
its height, pole diameter, and color) and any accessory equipment structures
(including, but not limited to, its height, dimensions, and color), and that
the proposed site will be as aesthetical as possible in keeping with its
surroundings, including elevations, landscaping, screening, appropriate
camouflage, and fencing.
   D.   A report prepared and certified by a structural engineer regarding the
structural integrity of the tower, antenna, or personal wireless service
facility and related accessory structures to be constructed. The report shall
contain sufficient information to show that construction, installation, and
maintenance of the tower, antenna, or personal wireless service facility will
not create a safety hazard or damage to the property of other persons.
   E.   Legal description for the property on which the tower, antenna, or
personal wireless service facility and related accessory structures will be
located and, if applicable, the legal description of leased parcel where these
improvements will be located.
   F.   A copy of a deed or lease confirming ownership of the property and, if
applicable, a written, signed statement by the property owner or lessor that
the applicant has the authority to construct and operate the tower, antenna, or
personal wireless service facility and related accessory structures on the
property.
   G.   Copies of each lease or license agreement or other contract that
relates to any service providers who intend to install and operate antennas or
personal wireless service facilities on the support tower or support antenna.
   H.   Current radio frequency coverage prediction maps showing the area
served both prior to and after construction of the proposed tower, antenna or
personal wireless service facility and technical performance goals for the
desired signal strength.
   I.   Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant submits,
whether civil, mechanical, or electrical, shall be certified by a licensed
professional engineer. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-20: LIMITED TO APPLICANT:
Every permit or ordinance granting approval of a conditional use permit for a
tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility shall state that any
assignment or transfer of the permit or conditional use permit or any of the
rights thereunder may be made only with the approval of the board of trustees.
(Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-21: TERM LIMITATION:
Every ordinance granting approval of a conditional use permit for a tower,
antenna or personal wireless service facility may provide that:
   A.   Where the provider of personal wireless services is not the owner of
the land on which such antenna or structure is located, the term of the
conditional use permit is limited to the term of the lease or other agreement
granting rights to use the land; and
   B.   The conditional use permit shall be subject to review by the board of
trustees (village board), at ten (10) year intervals, to determine whether the
technology in the provision of personal wireless services has changed such that
the necessity for the conditional use permit at the time of its approval has
been eliminated or modified, and whether the conditional use permit should be
modified or terminated as a result of any such change. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-
2007)
10-4-22: INSPECTION, ABANDONMENT AND REMOVAL:
   A.   Village Inspection: The village may, at any time, inspect any tower,
antenna, or personal wireless service facility to ensure its structural
integrity and compliance with the applicable laws, regulations, ordinances,
codes and industry standards (collectively the "applicable codes and
standards").
      1.   If the village's duly designated inspector concludes that the tower,
antenna or personal wireless service facility fails to comply with the
applicable codes and standards, then upon written notice from the village to
the owner of the tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility, the
owner shall have thirty (30) days to bring the facility into compliance with
the applicable codes and standards. Failure to bring the tower, antenna, or
personal wireless service facility into compliance within the said thirty (30)
days shall constitute cause for the removal of the tower, antenna or facility
at the owner's expense.
      2.   If the village's inspector concludes that the tower, antenna or
personal wireless service facility constitutes a danger to persons or property
because of a concern with its structural integrity or the failure to comply
with certain applicable codes and standards, then the owner of the tower,
antenna or personal wireless service facility shall take immediate steps to
secure the structural integrity of the tower, antenna or personal wireless
service facility or remedy the deficiencies in the applicable codes and
standards or remove the tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility.
Failure to take immediate steps to secure the tower, antenna, or personal
wireless service facility or to remedy the deficiencies in the applicable codes
and standards or to remove the tower, antenna or personal wireless service
facility shall constitute cause for the removal of the tower, antenna or
facility at the owner's expense.
   B.   Ten Year Structural Integrity Report: The owner of the tower, antenna
or personal wireless service facility shall submit to the village every ten
(10) years (due on the anniversary of the date of issuance of a permit or
conditional use permit authorizing the construction of the tower, antenna or
personal wireless service facility) a report prepared and certified by a
structural engineer regarding the structural integrity of the tower, antenna or
personal wireless service facility and its compliance with the applicable codes
and standards.
      1.   If the structural engineer's report concludes that the tower,
antenna or personal wireless service facility fails to comply with the
applicable codes and standards, then without written notice from the village,
the owner of the tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility shall
have thirty (30) days from the date of the report to bring the facility into
compliance with the applicable codes and standards. Failure to submit the
report, or to bring the tower, antenna, or personal wireless service facility
into compliance within the said thirty (30) days, shall constitute cause for
the removal of the tower, antenna or facility at the owner's expense.
      2.   If the structural engineer's report concludes that the tower,
antenna or personal wireless service facility constitutes a danger to persons
or property because of a concern with its structural integrity or the failure
to comply with certain applicable codes and standards, then the owner of the
tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility shall take immediate steps
to secure the structural integrity of the tower, antenna or personal wireless
service facility or remedy the deficiencies in the applicable codes and
standards or remove the tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility.
Failure to take immediate steps to secure the tower, antenna, or personal
wireless service facility or to remedy the deficiencies in the applicable codes
and standards or to remove the tower, antenna or personal wireless service
facility shall constitute cause for the removal of the tower, antenna or
facility at the owner's expense.
   C.   Abandonment: When one or more towers, antennas, or personal wireless
service facilities are not operated for the provision of personal wireless
services for a continuous period of twelve (12) months or more, such antenna,
tower, or personal wireless service facility may be deemed by the village to be
abandoned. Provided that the tower, antenna or personal wireless service
facility does not constitute a danger to the public or property, the owner of
such tower, antenna, or personal wireless service facility shall remove such
items within ninety (90) days following the mailing of written notice that
removal is required. Such notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, by the village to such owner at the last known
address of such owner. If two (2) or more providers of personal wireless
services use the tower, antenna, or personal wireless service facility to
provide personal wireless services, then the period of nonuse under this
provision shall be measured from the cessation of operation at the location of
such tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility by all such
providers.
   D.   Removal; Bond Or Security: The owner shall deliver a performance bond
in the amount of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), or such other like
security, acceptable in form to the village, prior to the issuance of a permit
or a conditional use permit for the construction and operation of new tower to
ensure removal and disposal of such tower abandoned and the owner fails or
refuses to remove the structure(s) in accordance with this ordinance where the
structure is determined to be: 1) abandoned or 2) constitutes a danger to
persons or property. The bond shall not expire or be terminated without thirty
(30) days' prior written notice to the village. The bond shall be issued for
the benefit of the village, callable upon demand by the village, renewed each
year by the owner, at its cost, and delivered to the village manager. The
village shall not be required to post such a bond for its own towers, antennas,
or personal wireless service facilities. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-23: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR REVIEW:
In addition to the standards contained in chapter 3 of this ordinance, and the
requirements of this ordinance, the following factors may also be considered in
the review of permits or conditional use permits for towers, antennas, and
personal wireless services facilities:
   A.   The height thereof, its proximity to residential structures and
residential district boundaries, and the design characteristics that have the
effect of reducing or eliminating, or failing to reduce or eliminate, the
visual obtrusiveness thereof.
   B.   The nature of the uses on adjacent and nearby property.
   C.   The surrounding topography, tree coverage and foliage.
   D.   The availability of suitable lawfully existing structures for purposes
of collocation. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-24: COMPLIANCE WITH FCC AND FAA:
All new or existing telecommunications services shall comply with all relevant
federal communication commission (FCC) and federal aviation administration
(FAA) standards and shall not interfere with public safety and other village
and private telecommunications operations. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-25: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
The owner of any tower shall provide the village on an annual basis with proof
of comprehensive general liability insurance in an amount not less than five
million dollars ($5,000,000.00) which protects against losses and damages of
any kind due to illness, personal injury or death or property damage resulting
from the construction, operation, removal or collapse of the tower, antenna or
accessory equipment. The insurance certificate shall name the village and its
affiliates (appointed and elected officials, officers, president and board of
trustees, engineers, attorneys, volunteers, agents or employees) as additional
insureds. In addition to the insurance required, the person applying for a
permit shall agree to execute and deliver to the village clerk of the village
of Western Springs a release, indemnification and hold harmless agreement,
prepared by the village attorney, in which the person applying for the permit
agrees to indemnify and save and hold the village, its appointed and elected
officials, officers, president and board of trustees, engineers, attorneys,
volunteers, agents or employees harmless from any and all liabilities and
damages of any kind or nature whatsoever which may arise as a result of the
construction, operation, removal or collapse of the tower, antenna or accessory
equipment as described herein, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorney fees, witness fees and expenses and court costs incurred by the
village in defending against any claim or in enforcing this ordinance or the
agreement. Such agreement shall be executed prior to the issuance of the
permit. (Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-4-26: APPLICATION FEE; REIMBURSEMENT OF VILLAGE COSTS:
Any applicant who petitions to install a tower, antenna or personal wireless
service facility shall pay a nonrefundable application fee of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00), plus a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) deposit to pay any
and all direct and indirect costs incurred by the village in employing
professional consultants to review the application, in processing the permit or
conditional use permit (including, but not limited to, the costs associated
with publishing for a public hearing and court reporting fees), and inspecting
the construction of the tower, antenna or personal wireless service facility.
(Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
10-5-2: Purpose Statements
10-5-3: Zoning Map
10-5-4: Annexed Lands
10-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
For the purposes of this ordinance, the village of Western Springs is hereby
divided into the following zoning districts:
   A.   Residence Districts:
A - Single-family residence district
R1 - Single-family residence district
R2 - Single-family residence district
R3 - Two-family residence district
R4 - Multiple-family residence district
RB - Residential buffer district
SFA - Single-family attached residence district
R5 - Continuing care retirement community residence district
   B.   Business Districts:
C1 - Village center commercial district
C2 - Community shopping district
O - Limited office district
ORI - Office research and limited industrial district
DT - Downtown transitional district
MXD - Mixed use commercial-residential district
   C.   Special Purpose Districts:
MGL - Municipal and governmental land district
(Ord. 01-2158, 1-22-2001; amd. Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003; Ord. 04-2308, 9-13-
2004; Ord. 09-2552, 10-12-2009; Ord. 15-2786, 2-23-2015)
10-5-2: PURPOSE STATEMENTS:
   A.   Residence Districts:
      1.   A - Single-Family Residence District: This district is intended to
provide a residential environment of larger lots with generous yards. It also
establishes the standards for new single-family developments in the community.
      2.   R1 - Single-Family Residence District: This district is intended to
provide a residential environment of moderate sized lots which still provide
for generous yards.
      3.   R2 - Single-Family Residence District: This district is intended to
provide a residential environment of moderate sized lots with smaller yards.
      4.   R3 - Two-Family Residence District: This district is intended to
provide a residential environment for two-family dwellings and shall be located
on the fringe of single-family neighborhoods along arterial and collector
streets or adjacent to the downtown area. "Two-family units" may be defined
either as side by side units separated by a common wall or stacked units with
one unit on top of the other.
      5.   RB - Residential Buffer District: This district is established to
provide for a mix of low density single-family and two-family uses and low
density office uses which are designed as traditional, detached residential
styled buildings or structures. The district shall serve as a transitional
zone, which is an area, used to gradually decrease the intensity of use and to
develop distance between single-family residentially zoned property and more
intensive land uses and zoning districts, such as commercially zoned property.
The district may or may not be appropriate in, and shall be limited to, the
following locations:
         a.   Corner lots located adjacent to and at the intersection of
regional arterial streets where property zoned for residential purposes is
abutted by, or across the street from, any commercial, industrial or office
district; and/or
         b.   Lots located adjacent to the C1 - village center commercial
district.
      6.   R4 - Multi-Family Residence District: This district is intended to
provide for a multiple-family residential environment of moderate density. The
R4 district is intended to accommodate existing apartment buildings which have
developed over time within the village. While this district will be applied to
existing multi-family development built on a lot by lot basis, it is intended
that new multi-family dwelling units shall be constructed as part of a planned
development. (Ord. 01-2158, 1-22-2001)
      7.   SFA - Single-Family Attached Residence District: This district is
intended to provide a residential environment for two-family and single-family
attached dwellings and shall be located adjacent to the BNSF Railroad right of
way east and west of the downtown area. (Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003)
      8.   R5 - Continuing Care Retirement Community Residence District: This
district is intended to provide for the development of larger tracts of land
that are not less than twenty (20.0) gross acres in size nor in excess of forty
(40.0) gross acres in size. The intent is for such land to be developed as a
continuing care retirement community ("CCRC") under the village's planned
development and conditional use regulations. A CCRC is a planned residential
development intended for individuals sixty two (62) years of age or older or
couples at least one member of which is sixty two (62) years of age or older
which shall include a licensed nursing home facility as an integral part of the
development and also provide facilities for varying degrees of assisted living
for residents and other such accessory uses that may be appropriate for a CCRC
and each of these other facilities, to the extent required by law, shall be
licensed, operated and maintained in accordance with the laws and regulations
of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 04-2308, 9-13-2004)
   B.   Business Districts:
      1.   C1 - Village Center Commercial District: This district constitutes
the town center or downtown of Western Springs and is intended to accommodate a
range of compatible retail, financial, service, governmental, professional and
residential uses in a setting conducive to and safe for pedestrian activity.
This district is intended principally for retail commercial uses.
      2.   C2 - Community Shopping District: This district is intended to
provide for those commercial activities that require locations along arterial
or collector streets with larger lots and greater vehicular access.
      3.   O - Limited Office District: This district is intended to provide an
environment for small office facilities that generate minimal vehicular traffic
and require little visibility from the streets on which they are located. It is
intended that this district be located principally to function as a buffer
between commercial and residential districts. This district must be located
adjacent to a commercial district. A single residential dwelling is permitted
above the first floor.
      4.   ORI - Office Research And Limited Industrial District: This district
is intended to provide an environment for light industrial uses that do not
produce noise, vibration, smoke, particulate matter, fire and explosive
hazards, toxic matter, odorous matter, and/or glare, or otherwise create
nuisances which could impact nearby residential development. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-
14-1992)
      5.   DT - Downtown Transitional District: This district is intended to
provide a transitional zone used to gradually decrease the intensity of use and
to separate single-family residentially zoned property and commercially zoned
property. It provides a location for surface parking lots and potentially other
compatible land uses adjacent to and serving commercial uses within the C1 -
village center commercial district. (Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003)
      6.   MXD - Mixed Use Commercial-Residential District: This district is
intended to provide opportunities for development of sites with new or
rehabilitated buildings that contain a mix of commercial and residential uses.
The first floor of such buildings should provide space for commercial, office,
retail and service uses that are easily accessible to the public. First floor
residential uses are permitted but should be located in areas that are
secondary to the commercial spaces. The first floor of the building also should
include other related ancillary services and amenities that support the
building occupants, such as internal pedestrian accessways and elevator areas,
storage areas, concierge or security desk, mechanical and utility rooms,
restrooms, meeting rooms and common areas that serve some or all of the
building uses. The properties that are eligible to be rezoned to this district
are located at the southeast corner of the Burlington Avenue and Wolf Road
intersection and are identified as: property index numbers 18-05-305-011, 18-
05-305-028 and 18-05-305-029 (formerly the Tischler's Grocery Store site and
the Breen's Drycleaner Store site); property index numbers 18-05-305-009, 18-
05-305-010 and 18-05-305-023 (the Benak Auto Repair Shop site); and property
index numbers: 18-05-305-026 (the Commonwealth Edison site) (see also, plan
commission recommendation no. 15-01). (Ord. 15-2786, 2-23-2015)
   C.   Special Purpose Districts:
      1.   Municipal And Governmental Land District: This district is intended
to accommodate and regulate the use and development of land owned by the
village and state, county and federal governments within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the village. (Ord. 09-2552, 10-12-2009)
10-5-3: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Location And Boundaries: The location and boundaries of the districts
established by this ordinance are set forth in the official zoning map as
amended from time to time, which is incorporated herein and hereby made a part
of this ordinance. The map shall be published as provided by law as a part of
this ordinance, as though fully set forth and described herein. The map shall
be filed with the office of the village clerk and certified copies shall be
made available for public purchase and inspection from the village clerk's
office during standard business hours.
   B.   Zoning Map Interpretation:
      1.   Zoning district boundary lines shall be interpreted to be
coterminous with centerlines of streets, alleys, expressways and railroad
rights of way; section lines or division of section lines; tract or lot lines;
and such lines extended, unless otherwise indicated.
      2.   In areas not subdivided into lots and blocks, wherever a district or
portion of a district is indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling a
street, highway, or railroad, the depth of such strips shall be in accordance
with dimensions shown on the maps measured at right angles from the centerline
of streets, highways, or railroad rights of way unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-5-4: ANNEXED LANDS:
On all land annexed to the village of Western Springs after the effective date
hereof, no construction or modification of land use shall occur until an
ordinance designating the zoning classification of such land is duly adopted by
the village of Western Springs. Within thirty (30) days of annexation, the plan
commission shall file an application for an amendment to establish the zoning
classification of such land. Action shall be taken by the Western Springs
village board on such application within sixty (60) days of its filing. If no
preannexation hearing is held and the Western Springs village board does not
approve a zoning amendment to classify such land as provided for in this
ordinance, such land will be classified as A - single-family residence
district, until such time as an amendment changing the zoning classification is
adopted. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: A Single-Family Residence District
10-6-2: R1 - Single-Family Residence District
10-6-3: R2 - Single-Family Residence District
10-6-4: R3 - Two-Family Residence District
10-6-5: R4 - Multiple-Family Residence District
10-6-6: RB - Residential Buffer District
10-6-7: SFA - Single-Family Attached Residence District
10-6-8: R5 - Continuing Care Retirement Community Residence District
10-6-9: Personal Wireless Service Facility On Village Owned Property
10-6-1: A SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Accessory uses and buildings, incidental to and on the same zoning lot as the
principal use.
Churches, synagogues and other places of religious worship, including any
related parsonage, convent or retreat house.
Single-family detached dwellings. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship including any related
parsonage, convent or retreat house in cases where said building or structure
does not meet the minimum requirements of chapter 4, "Development Standards Of
General Applicability", of this ordinance, this chapter, and chapter 11,
"Floodplain And Storm Water Management", of this ordinance or where a use does
not qualify as an accessory use of said church, synagogue or other place of
worship.
Daycare centers.
Libraries, publicly owned not for profit.
Municipal utility and service uses including fire stations, police stations,
waterworks, reservoir, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Planned developments.
Private utilities including substations, transmission facilities and related
facilities and telecommunication towers, antennas, and personal wireless
services facilities, but prohibiting transmitting or receiving
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height, except
for monopoles owned by a state, federal or local government body that are used
primarily for governmental or public safety communications, provided that the
monopole has a maximum height of one hundred feet (100') and conforms to the
regulations set forth in chapter 4, part V of this ordinance.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Schools, public and private including elementary, junior high, and high
schools, but excluding colleges, universities, and trade schools. (Ord. 01-
2167, 5-21-2001; amd. Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area:
      1.   Corner lots: Ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      2.   Interior lots: Seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width:
      1.   Corner lots: Eighty feet (80').
      2.   Interior lots: Sixty feet (60').
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front yard: Fifty feet (50'), provided that the front yard need not
be any greater than the average setback of existing dwellings along the same
block face.
      2.   Corner side yard: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      3.   Interior side yard: For all lots, including corner lots, and
reversed corner lots platted prior to October 1, 1999, the interior side yard
shall be ten feet (10') or ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is
less. For interior lots only, the other yard shall be not less than ten feet
(10') in width.
For reversed corner lots, platted after October 1, 1999, the corner side yard
shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') and not less than the average setback
of existing dwellings along the same block face yet not be required to be
greater than the required front yard setback of the district. (Ord. 99-2097, 9-
27-1999)
      4.   Rear yard: Thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   F.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories, whichever is less. In no case shall building height exceed
thirty eight feet (38') as measured from the sidewalk level, or its equivalent
established grade, opposite the middle front of the building to the top of the
highest gable. (Ord. 99-2082, 4-26-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
   G.   Maximum Building Coverage: The surface coverage of all principal and
enclosed buildings and structures shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
lot area. Notwithstanding the above, the maximum allowable building coverage
shall be reduced by four hundred forty (440) square feet and said reduction
shall be allocated for garage space, attached or detached, present or future.
(Ord. 99-2081, 4-26-1999)
   H.   Floor Area, Gross (For Determining Allowable Area In One- And Two-
Family Residential Districts): Except as hereinafter provided, the sum of the
gross horizontal areas of all floors of all stories and partial stories of a
building, or such area devoted to a specific use, measured from the exterior
face of exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2)
buildings or uses. The application of the gross floor area regulations shall be
in conformance with appendix B of this ordinance that is an integral part of
this ordinance. (Ord. 99-2082, 4-26-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
   I.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The maximum percentage of total lot coverage for
a residential lot that is improved with a principal single- family residential
structure and any other impervious surfaces, as defined in the term “Lot
Coverage” at section
10-2-2 (Definitions) of this code, shall be fifty percent (50%). Lots less than
nine thousand (9,000) square feet shall be permitted to increase the overall
lot coverage of impervious surfaces and permeable surfaces to a maximum of
fifty-two percent (52%) by using permeable pavers and permeable base structures
as denoted in the appendix of this ordinance. Lots greater than nine thousand
(9,000) square feet shall be permitted to increase the overall lot coverage of
impervious surfaces and permeable surfaces to a maximum of fifty-four percent
(54%) by using permeable pavers and permeable base structures as denoted in the
appendix of this ordinance. For example, where existing lot coverage of
impervious surfaces equals fifty percent (50%), a maximum of two percent (2%)
or four percent (4%) of permeable surfaces may be installed depending on the
square foot area of the lot. (Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015; amd. Ord. 21-3047, 6-28-
2021)
10-6-2: R1 - SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Accessory uses and buildings, incidental to and on the same zoning lot as the
principal use.
Churches, synagogues and other places of religious worship, including any
related parsonage, convent or retreat house.
Single-family detached dwellings. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship including any related
parsonage, convent or retreat house in cases where said building or structure
does not meet the minimum requirements of chapter 4, "Development Standards Of
General Applicability", of this ordinance, this chapter, and chapter 11,
"Floodplain And Stormwater Management", of this ordinance or where a use does
not qualify as an accessory use of said church, synagogue or other place of
worship.
Daycare centers.
Libraries, publicly owned not for profit.
Municipal utility and service uses including fire stations, police stations,
waterworks, reservoir, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Planned developments.
Private utilities including substations, transmission facilities and related
facilities and telecommunication towers, antennas, and personal wireless
services facilities, but prohibiting transmitting or receiving
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Schools, public and private including elementary, junior high, and high
schools, but excluding colleges, universities, and trade schools. (Ord. 01-
2167, 5-21-2001; amd. Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: Six thousand two hundred (6,200) square feet.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Fifty feet (50'), except that lots platted after the
effective date hereof shall be not less than sixty feet (60') in width.
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front Yard: Fifty feet (50'), provided that the front yard need not
be any greater than the average setback of existing dwellings along the same
block face.
      2.   Corner Side Yard: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      3.   Interior Side Yard: For all lots, including corner lots, and
reversed corner lots platted prior to October 1, 1999, the interior side yard
shall be ten feet (10') or ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is
less. For interior lots only, the other yard shall be not less than ten feet
(10') in width.
For reversed corner lots, platted after October 1, 1999, the corner side yard
shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') and not less than the average setback
of existing dwellings along the same block face yet not be required to be
greater than the required front yard setback of the district. (Ord. 99-2097, 9-
27-1999)
      4.   Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   F.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories, whichever is less. In no case shall building height exceed
thirty eight feet (38') as measured from the sidewalk level, or its equivalent
established grade, opposite the middle front of the building to the top of the
highest gable. (Ord. 99-2082, 4-26-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
   G.   Maximum Building Coverage: The surface coverage of all principal and
enclosed buildings and structures shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
lot area. Notwithstanding the above, the maximum allowable building coverage
shall be reduced by four hundred forty (440) square feet and said reduction
shall be allocated for garage space, attached or detached, present or future.
(Ord. 99-2081, 4-26-1999)
   H.   Floor Area, Gross (For Determining Allowable Area In One- And Two-
Family Residential Districts): Except as hereinafter provided, the sum of the
gross horizontal areas of all floors of all stories and partial stories of a
building, or such area devoted to a specific use, measured from the exterior
face of exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2)
buildings or uses. The application of the gross floor area regulations shall be
in conformance with appendix B of this ordinance that is an integral part of
this ordinance. (Ord. 99-2082, 4-26-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
   I.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The maximum percentage of total lot coverage for
a residential lot that is improved with a principal single- family residential
structure and any other impervious surfaces, as defined in the term “Lot
Coverage” at section
10-2-2 (Definitions) of this code, shall be fifty percent (50%). Lots less than
nine thousand (9,000) square feet shall be permitted to increase the overall
lot coverage of impervious surfaces and permeable surfaces to a maximum of
fifty-two percent (52%) by using permeable pavers and permeable base structures
as denoted in the appendix of this ordinance. Lots greater than nine thousand
(9,000) square feet shall be permitted to increase the overall lot coverage of
impervious surfaces and permeable pavers and permeable base structures as
denoted in the appendix of this ordinance. For example, where existing lot
coverage of impervious surfaces equals fifty percent (50%), a maximum of two
percent (2%) or four percent (4%) of permeable surfaces may be installed
depending on the square foot area of the lot. (Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015; amd.
Ord. 21-3047, 6-28-2021)
10-6-3: R2 - SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Accessory uses and buildings, incidental to and on the same zoning lot as the
principal use.
Churches, synagogues and other places of religious worship, including any
related parsonage, convent or retreat house.
Single-family detached dwellings. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship including any related
parsonage, convent or retreat house in cases where said building or structure
does not meet the minimum requirements of chapter 4, "Development Standards Of
General Applicability", of this ordinance, this chapter, and chapter 11,
"Floodplain And Stormwater Management", of this ordinance or where a use does
not qualify as an accessory use of said church, synagogue or other place of
worship.
Daycare centers located in institutional buildings (e.g., churches, schools,
etc.).
Libraries, publicly owned not for profit.
Municipal utility and service uses including fire stations, police stations,
waterworks, reservoir, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Planned developments.
Private utilities including substations, transmission facilities and related
facilities and telecommunication towers, antennas, and personal wireless
services facilities, but prohibiting transmitting or receiving
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Public swimming pools and aquatic centers.
Schools, public and private including elementary, junior high, and high
schools, but excluding colleges, universities, and trade schools. (Ord. 01-
2167, 5-21-2001; amd. Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: Six thousand two hundred (6,200) square feet.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Fifty feet (50'), except that lots platted after the
effective date hereof shall be not less than sixty feet (60') in width. (Ord.
92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front Yard: Thirty feet (30'), provided that when a block is
occupied by buildings which existed at the effective date hereof, the front
yard setback for any new building shall be in conformity with the average front
yard setback of existing buildings along the same block face, but need not
exceed fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 97-2009, 5-27-1997)
      2.   Corner Side Yard: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      3.   Interior Side Yard: For all lots, including corner lots, and
reversed corner lots platted prior to October 1, 1999, the interior side yard
shall be ten feet (10') or ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is
less. For interior lots only, the other yard shall be not less than ten feet
(10') in width.
For reversed corner lots, platted after October 1, 1999, the corner side yard
shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') and not less than the average setback
of existing dwellings along the same block face yet not be required to be
greater than the required front yard setback of the district. (Ord. 99-2097, 9-
27-1999)
      4.   Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   F.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories, whichever is less. In no case shall building height exceed
thirty eight feet (38') as measured from the sidewalk level, or its equivalent
established grade, opposite the middle front of the building to the top of the
highest gable. (Ord. 99-2082, 4-26-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
   G.   Maximum Building Coverage: The surface coverage of all principal and
enclosed buildings and structures shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
lot area. Notwithstanding the above, the maximum allowable building coverage
shall be reduced by four hundred forty (440) square feet and said reduction
shall be allocated for garage space, attached or detached, present or future.
(Ord. 99-2081, 4-26-1999)
   H.   Floor Area, Gross (For Determining Allowable Area In One- And Two-
Family Residential Districts): Except as hereinafter provided, the sum of the
gross horizontal areas of all floors of all stories and partial stories of a
building, or such area devoted to a specific use, measured from the exterior
face of exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2)
buildings or uses. The application of the gross floor area regulations shall be
in conformance with appendix B of this ordinance that is an integral part of
this ordinance. (Ord. 99-2082, 4-26-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
   I.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The maximum percentage of total lot coverage for
a residential lot that is improved with a principal single- family residential
structure and any other impervious surfaces, as defined in the term “Lot
Coverage” at section
10-2-2 (Definitions) of this code, shall be fifty percent (50%). Lots less than
nine thousand (9,000) square feet shall be permitted to increase the overall
lot coverage of imperious surfaces and permeable surfaces to a maximum of
fifty-two percent (52%) by using permeable pavers and permeable base structures
as denoted in the appendix of this ordinance. Lots greater than nine thousand
(9,000) square feet shall be permitted to increase the overall lot coverage of
impervious surfaces and permeable surfaces to a maximum of fifty-four percent
(54%) by using permeable pavers and permeable base structures as denoted in the
appendix of this ordinance. For example, where existing lot coverage of
impervious surfaces equals fifty percent (50%), a maximum of two percent (2%)
or four percent (4%) of permeable surfaces may be installed depending on the
square foot area of the lot. (Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015; amd. Ord. 21-3047, 6-28-
2021)
10-6-4: R3 - TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Accessory uses and buildings, incidental to and on the same zoning lot as the
principal use.
Churches, synagogues and other places of religious worship, including any
related parsonage, convent or retreat house.
Single-family detached dwellings.
Two-family dwellings. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship including any related
parsonage, convent or retreat house in cases where said building or structure
does not meet the minimum requirements of chapter 4, "Development Standards Of
General Applicability", of this ordinance, this chapter, and chapter 11,
"Floodplain And Stormwater Management", of this ordinance or where a use does
not qualify as an accessory use of said church, synagogue or other place of
worship.
Daycare centers located in institutional buildings (e.g., churches, schools,
etc.).
Libraries, publicly owned not for profit.
Municipal utility and service uses including fire stations, police stations,
waterworks, reservoir, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Municipally owned parking lots, commuter or otherwise.
Planned developments.
Private utilities including substations, transmission facilities and related
facilities and telecommunication towers, antennas, and personal wireless
services facilities, but prohibiting transmitting or receiving
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height.
Privately owned parking lots, provided that the parking lot is exclusively used
in conjunction with an adjacent building located in the C1 village center
commercial district as a convenience for patrons, employees, tenants and owners
of the building. As a condition of the issuance of the conditional use permit,
the property owner shall file with the office of the Cook County recorder of
deeds a covenant against title to the commercial building and parking lot
properties, which has been approved by the village attorney, requiring that
title to said properties always be held by the same owner. A copy of the
recorded covenant shall be filed with the village. The private parking lot
shall not be operated as a commuter parking lot.
Professional offices, provided such offices are located in a building
constructed as a single-family dwelling.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Public swimming pools and aquatic centers.
Schools, public and private including elementary, junior high, and high
schools, but excluding colleges, universities, and trade schools. (Ord. 01-
2167, 5-21-2001; amd. Ord. 03-2250, 7-14-2003; Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area:
      1.   Single-family dwellings: Six thousand two hundred (6,200) square
feet.
      2.   Two-family dwellings: Three thousand one hundred (3,100) square feet
per dwelling unit.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Fifty feet (50'), except that lots platted after the
effective date hereof shall be not less than sixty feet (60') in width.
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30'), provided that the front yard need not
be any greater than the average setback of existing dwellings along the same
block face.
      2.   Corner side yard: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      3.   Interior side yard: For all lots, including corner lots, and
reversed corner lots platted prior to October 1, 1999, the interior side yard
shall be ten feet (10') or ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is
less. For interior lots only, the other yard shall be not less than ten feet
(10') in width.
For reversed corner lots, platted after October 1, 1999, the corner side yard
shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') and not less than the average setback
of existing dwellings along the same block face yet not be required to be
greater than the required front yard setback of the district. (Ord. 99-2097, 9-
27-1999)
      4.   Rear yard: Thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   F.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories, whichever is less. In no case shall building height exceed
thirty eight feet (38') as measured from the sidewalk level, or its equivalent
established grade, opposite the middle front of the building to the top of the
highest gable. (Ord. 99-2082, 4-26-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
   G.   Maximum Building Coverage: The surface coverage of all principal and
enclosed buildings and structures shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
lot area. Notwithstanding the above, the maximum allowable building coverage
shall be reduced by four hundred forty (440) square feet and said reduction
shall be allocated for garage space, attached or detached, present or future.
(Ord. 99-2081, 4-26-1999)
   H.   Floor Area, Gross (For Determining Allowable Area In One- And Two-
Family Residential Districts): Except as hereinafter provided, the sum of the
gross horizontal areas of all floors of all stories and partial stories of a
building, or such area devoted to a specific use, measured from the exterior
face of exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2)
buildings or uses. The application of the gross floor area regulations shall be
in conformance with appendix B that is an integral part of this ordinance.
(Ord. 99-2082, 4-26-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
10-6-5: R4 - MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Accessory uses and buildings, incidental to and on the same zoning lot as the
principal use.
Churches, synagogues and other places of religious worship, including any
related parsonage, convent or retreat house.
Multiple-family dwellings not exceeding six (6) dwelling units per building.
Two-family dwellings. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship including any related
parsonages, convents and retreat houses in cases where said building or
structure does not meet the minimum requirements of chapter 4, "Development
Standards Of General Applicability", of this ordinance, this chapter, and
chapter 11, "Floodplain And Storm Water Management", of this ordinance or where
a use does not qualify as an accessory use of said church, synagogue or other
place of worship.
Libraries, publicly owned not for profit.
Municipal utility and service uses including fire stations, police stations,
waterworks, reservoir, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Planned developments.
Private utilities including substations, transmission facilities and related
facilities and telecommunication towers, antennas, and personal wireless
services facilities, but prohibiting transmitting or receiving
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Schools, public and private including elementary, junior high, and high
schools, but excluding colleges, universities, and trade schools. (Ord. 01-
2167, 5-21-2001; amd. Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area:
      1.   Two-family dwellings: Six thousand two hundred (6,200) square feet.
      2.   Multiple-family dwellings: Not less than three thousand six hundred
thirty (3,630) square feet of lot area shall be provided for each dwelling
unit.
   D.   Minimum Development Parcel Size: The net lot area of each multiple-
family development site shall not be less than five (5) acres.
   E.   Minimum Lot Width: Fifty feet (50'), except that lots platted after the
effective date hereof shall be not less than sixty feet (60') in width.
   F.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Corner side yard: Twenty five feet (25').
      3.   Interior side yard: Thirty feet (30').
      4.   Rear yard: Thirty feet (30').
   G.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Two-Family Dwellings: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories, whichever is less.
      2.   Multiple-Family Dwellings: Multiple-family dwellings not exceeding
six (6) dwelling units per building: forty feet (40') or three (3) stories,
whichever is less.
   H.   Maximum Building Coverage: The surface coverage of all principal and
accessory buildings and structures shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
lot area.
   I.   Minimum Floor Area - Multiple-Family Dwellings: The minimum floor area
for multiple-family dwelling units is set forth below:
      1.   Studio units: Six hundred fifty (650) square feet.
      2.   One bedroom units: Eight hundred (800) square feet.
      3.   Two bedroom units: One thousand (1,000) square feet.
      4.   Three bedroom units: One thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-6-6: RB - RESIDENTIAL BUFFER DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Accessory uses and buildings, incidental to and on the same zoning lot as the
principal use.
Churches, synagogues and other places of religious worship, including any
related parsonage, convent or retreat house.
Single-family detached dwellings.
Two-family dwellings.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship including any related
parsonage, convent or retreat house in cases where said building or structure
does not meet the minimum requirements of chapter 4, "Development Standards Of
General Applicability", of this ordinance, this chapter, and chapter 11,
"Floodplain And Storm Water Management", of this ordinance or where a use does
not qualify as an accessory use of said church, synagogue or other place of
worship.
Professional offices, in an existing single-family structure, or in a new
structure intended for office occupancy provided that the principal structure
and any accessory structures shall be designed in a traditional detached
residential style. The facade of any new principal structure, visible from
adjoining street(s) and yard(s) shall provide common doorways, windows,
rooflines, and other features typical to a detached residential architectural
style. (Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area:
      1.   Single-family dwellings: Six thousand two hundred (6,200) square
feet.
      2.   Two-family dwellings: Three thousand one hundred (3,100) square feet
per dwelling unit.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Fifty feet (50'), except that lots platted after the
effective date hereof shall be not less than sixty feet (60') in width.
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30'), provided that the front yard need not
be any greater than the average setback of existing dwellings along the same
block face.
      2.   Corner side yard: Fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Interior side yard: For all lots, including corner lots, and
reversed corner lots platted prior to October 1, 1999, the interior side yard
shall be ten feet (10') or ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is
less. For interior lots, the other yard shall be not less than ten feet (10')
in width.
For reversed corner lots, platted after October 1, 1999, the corner side yard
shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') and not less than the average setback
of existing dwellings along the same block face yet not be required to be
greater than the required front yard setback of the district.
      4.   Rear yard: Thirty feet (30').
   F.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories, whichever is less. In no case shall building height exceed
thirty eight feet (38') as measured from the sidewalk level, or its equivalent
established grade, opposite the middle front of the building to the top of the
highest gable.
   G.   Maximum Building Coverage: The surface coverage of all principal and
enclosed buildings and structures shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
lot area. Notwithstanding the above, the maximum allowable building coverage
shall be reduced by four hundred forty (440) square feet and said reduction
shall be allocated for garage space, attached or detached, present or future.
   H.   Floor Area, Gross (For Determining Allowable Area In One- And Two-
Family Residential Districts): Except as hereinafter provided, the sum of the
gross horizontal areas of all floors of all stories and partial stories of a
building, or such area devoted to a specific use, measured from the exterior
face of exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2)
buildings or uses. The application of the gross floor area regulations shall be
in conformance with appendix B of this ordinance that is an integral part of
this ordinance. (Ord. 01-2158, 1-22-2001)
   I.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The maximum percentage of total lot coverage for
a residential lot that is improved with a principal single- family residential
structure and any other impervious surfaces, as defined in the term “Lot
Coverage” at section
10-2-2 (Definitions) of this code, shall be fifty percent (50%). Lots less than
nine thousand (9,000) square feet shall be permitted to increase the overall
lot coverage of impervious surfaces and permeable surfaces to a maximum of
fifty-two percent (52%) by using permeable pavers and permeable base structures
as denoted in the appendix of this ordinance. Lots greater than nine thousand
(9,000) square feet shall be permitted to increase the overall lot coverage of
impervious surfaces and permeable surfaces to a maximum of fifty-four percent
(54%) by using permeable pavers and permeable base structures as denoted in the
appendix of this ordinance. For example, where existing lot coverage of
impervious surfaces equals fifty percent (50%), a maximum of two percent (2%)
or four percent (4%) of permeable surfaces may be installed depending on the
square foot area of the lot. (Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015; amd. Ord. 21-3047, 6-28-
2021)
10-6-7: SFA - SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Accessory uses and buildings, incidental to and on the same zoning lot as the
principal use.
Churches, synagogues and other places of religious worship, including any
related parsonage, convent or retreat house.
Two-family dwellings. (Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003)
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship including any related
parsonage, convent or retreat house in cases where said building or structure
does not meet the minimum requirements of chapter 4, "Development Standards Of
General Applicability", of this ordinance, this chapter, and chapter 11,
"Floodplain And Stormwater Management", of this ordinance or where a use does
not qualify as an accessory use of said church, synagogue or other place of
worship.
Daycare centers located in institutional buildings (e.g., churches, schools,
etc.).
Libraries, publicly owned not for profit.
Municipal utility and service uses including fire stations, police stations,
waterworks, reservoir, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Planned developments.
Private utilities including substations, transmission facilities and related
facilities and telecommunication towers, antennas, and personal wireless
services facilities, but prohibiting transmitting or receiving
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Schools, public and private including elementary, junior high, and high
schools, but excluding colleges, universities and trade schools.
Single-family attached dwellings, up to four (4) dwelling units per building.
(Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003; amd. Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area:
      1.   Two-family dwellings: Three thousand one hundred (3,100) square feet
per dwelling unit.
      2.   Single-family attached dwellings: Three thousand one hundred (3,100)
square feet per dwelling unit.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Fifty feet (50'), except that lots platted after the
effective date hereof shall be not less than sixty feet (60') in width.
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front Yard: Thirty feet (30') provided that the front yard need not
be any greater than the average setback of existing dwellings along the same
block face.
      2.   Corner Side Yard: Fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Interior Side Yard: For all lots, including corner lots, and
reversed corner lots platted prior to October 1, 1999, the corner side yard
shall be ten feet (10') or ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is
less. For interior lots only, the other yard shall be not less than ten feet
(10') in width.
For reversed corner lots, platted after October 1, 1999, the corner side yard
shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') and not less than the average setback
of existing dwellings along the same block face yet not be required to be
greater than the required front yard setback of the district.
      4.   Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30').
   F.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories, whichever is less. In no case shall building height exceed
thirty eight feet (38') as measured from the sidewalk level, or its equivalent
established grade, opposite the middle front of the building at the top of the
highest gable.
   G.   Improvement Standards: All parking for residential uses within this
district shall be provided within enclosed structures.
   H.   Maximum Building Coverage: The surface coverage of all principal and
enclosed buildings and structures shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
lot area. Notwithstanding the above, the maximum allowable building coverage
shall be reduced by four hundred forty (440) square feet and said reduction
shall be allocated for garage space, attached or detached, present or future.
   I.   Floor Area, Gross (For Determining Allowable Area In Two-Family
Residential Districts): Except as hereinafter provided, the sum of the gross
horizontal areas of all floors of all stories and partial stories of a
building, or such area devoted to a specific use, measured from the exterior
face of exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2)
buildings or uses. The application of the gross floor area regulations shall be
in conformance with appendix B of this ordinance that is an integral part of
this ordinance. (Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003)
10-6-8: R5 - CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Accessory uses and buildings, incidental to and on the same zoning lot as the
principal use.
Churches, synagogues and other places of religious worship, including any
related parsonage, convent or retreat house. (Ord. 04-2308, 9-13-2004)
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship including any related
parsonage, convent or retreat house in cases where said building or structure
does not meet the minimum requirements of chapter 4, "Development Standards Of
General Applicability", of this ordinance, this chapter, and chapter 11,
"Floodplain And Storm Water Management", of this ordinance or where a use does
not qualify as an accessory use of said church, synagogue or other place of
worship.
Municipal utility and service uses including fire stations, police stations,
waterworks, reservoir, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Planned development with a continuing care retirement community component: a
CCRC development that may consist of one or more of the following residential
dwelling types: single-family buildings, two-family buildings, multiple-family
buildings, and single-family attached buildings, up to four (4) dwelling units
per building.
Private utilities including substations, transmission facilities and related
facilities and telecommunication towers, antennas, and personal wireless
services facilities, but prohibiting transmitting or receiving
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height.
Public parks and playgrounds. (Ord. 04-2308, 9-13-2004; amd. Ord. 07-2432, 1-
22-2007)
   C.   Minimum And Maximum Development Parcel Size: The gross land area to be
developed under the R5 continuing care retirement community residence district
shall be not less than twenty (20.0) gross acres in size nor in excess of forty
(40.0) gross acres in size.
   D.   Lot And Building Regulations:
      1.   Places Of Worship: For places of worship developed either as a
permitted use or a conditional use or a planned development under this
district, the lot and building regulations of section
10-6-1, "A Single-Family Residence District", of this chapter shall apply to
any development, except as modified by the village board as part of its
approval of a conditional use, a planned development or a variation.
      2.   Planned Developments: For a planned development with a CCRC
component, the specific lot and building regulations set forth in subsection E
of this section shall apply to such developments, including any multi-family
buildings.
      3.   Impervious Surface Coverage: The amount of impervious surface (all
principal and enclosed buildings and accessory structures plus driveways,
parking lots, sidewalks, decks, patios and other hard surfaces such as
concrete, asphalt, metal, brick pavers, wood, etc.), but excluding designated
roadways, shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the lot area. Any
modification of this impervious surface regulation shall be approved by the
village board as part of its approval of a conditional use or a planned
development.
      4.   Other Applicable Regulations: All other applicable regulations set
forth in the village municipal code, including, but not limited to, the
landscape regulations, storm water management regulations, and off street
parking regulations, shall apply to all developments, buildings and structures
constructed within the district, except as modified by the village board as
part of its approval of a conditional use, a planned development or a
variation.
   E.   Planned Development With CCRC Component: Where a planned development
includes any structure(s) designed and intended to be used as a CCRC, the
following provisions and regulations shall be applicable and shall govern in
the case of any inconsistency or conflict with any other provisions and
regulations of this ordinance:
      1.   The maximum density for CCRCs shall not exceed thirteen (13) units
per acre. The permitted number of dwelling units shall be based upon the sum of
all residential units and assisted living units. Nursing care beds shall not be
counted towards the total number of permitted dwelling units; however, the
number of nursing care beds allowed as part of a village approved planned
development with a CCRC shall be determined by the village board based on
actuarial data submitted by the applicant.
      2.   No lot line of a CCRC may be closer than two thousand six hundred
forty feet (2,640') to the lot line of another such facility.
      3.   A yard setback shall be provided as follows:
         a.   Principal buildings and accessory buildings of two (2) or more
stories in height shall be set back not less than one hundred feet (100.0')
from the lot line.
         b.   All other accessory structures shall be governed by the
provisions of the accessory use regulations of this ordinance.
      4.   The minimum distance between any two (2) separate buildings shall be
fifteen feet (15.0').
      5.   The maximum percentage of a CCRC site which may be covered by
buildings shall be twenty five percent (25%).
      6.   The height of any nonresidential or multi-family building (excluding
all other types of residential buildings), exclusive of roof mounted building
equipment, shall not exceed four (4) stories or fifty feet (50.0'), whichever
is less. The village board may, as part of the planned development approval,
grant a variance from the maximum height regulation in an amount not to exceed
ten percent (10.0%) of the permitted building height, in order to allow the
development to proceed. The standard for the village board to grant the
variance shall be that the amount of additional building height is "de minimis"
(i.e., meets the 10.0 percent or less threshold). The variation process and
standards set forth at subsection
10-3-11C of this ordinance shall not apply to the consideration and approval of
such a variance. The construction of a clock tower, decorative spires and other
ornamental structures that extend above the above maximum building height
regulation (4 stories or 50.0 feet, whichever is less) is subject to village
board approval. If the village board approves the construction of such a
structure, then the height of any clock tower, decorative spire and other
ornamental structure shall not extend more than fifteen feet (15.0') above the
maximum building height approved by the village board.
      7.   For buildings that exceed thirty eight feet (38.0') in height, the
minimum requirements for landscape buffering and berming (including the gross
area of the landscape buffer and the height and width of berms and the amount
and types of trees, bushes and other vegetative materials to be planted)
between buildings and adjacent to the lot lines as set forth in the village
municipal code may be increased, or the village board may impose additional
landscape buffering or berming requirements not contained in the code, as part
of the village board's approval of a conditional use permit or planned
development.
      8.   In the case of single-family and two-family buildings, the lot and
building regulations of section
10-6-4, "R-3 - Two-Family Residence District", of this chapter shall apply. In
the case of single-family attached buildings, the lot and building regulations
of section
10-6-7, "SFA - Single-Family Attached Residence District", of this chapter
shall apply. Any modification of the applicable lot and building regulations
shall be approved by the village board as part of its approval of a conditional
use or a planned development.
      9.   Principal and accessory uses shall be permitted as follows:
         a.   Principal Uses:
Assisted living units.
Attached or detached single-family units.
Multiple-family dwelling units.
Nursing beds.
         b.   Accessory Uses:
Administrative offices.
Auditoriums/multi-purpose rooms.
Bank.
Common dining facilities.
Dining facilities serving liquor, clubhouse with a patron bar (subject to
liquor license approval).
Laundry and dry cleaning facilities.
On site laundry and dry cleaning services.
Recreation facilities.
Service and retail shops.
Therapy facilities.
Wellness and home healthcare.
Other ancillary facilities deemed appropriate by the board of trustees.
      10.   The CCRC may provide a means by which the facilities are made
available on a continuing preference basis to village of Western Springs
residents and a means by which the facilities are made available on a
continuing basis at less cost to village of Western Springs residents, subject,
however, to applicable federal, state, county and local laws. The CCRC operator
shall provide written proof to the village as part of its application for
planned development approval that such a preference program complies with
applicable federal, state, county and local laws.
      11.   Any proposed CCRC shall be considered by the president and board of
trustees prior to its approval using the following criteria in addition to the
standards applicable to all planned developments:
         a.   The long range aims and goals pertaining to the physical and
social development of the village as provided in the comprehensive plan.
         b.   The integration of the proposed land use with the existing and
other proposed developments and existing land uses adjacent to the CCRC site.
         c.   The conditions and availability of adjacent streets to
efficiently and safely afford a movement of traffic generated by the proposed
development.
         d.   Additional public services made necessary by the proposed
development.
         e.   The amount, location and proposed use of the permanent open space
achieved by the development.
         f.   Accessibility of the CCRC site to public transportation.
         g.   The proximity of commercial and institutional facilities,
including medical facilities for the use of residents. (Ord. 04-2308, 9-13-
2004)
10-6-9: PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY ON VILLAGE OWNED PROPERTY:
Personal wireless service facilities (including telecommunication towers and
antennas) located on property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the
village are permitted in any zoning district provided a license agreement or
lease agreement authorizing such personal wireless service facilities has been
approved by the village and the other applicable provisions of this ordinance
are complied with, except that towers and related personal wireless service
support facilities are not permitted in any village public right of way within
two hundred feet (200') of any habitable residential building or structure. The
installation and maintenance of antennas, nontower personal wireless service
facilities and related personal wireless service support facilities such as the
installation of Wi-Fi equipment and related infrastructure on light poles or
utility poles located on property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the
village is not subject to the two hundred foot (200') setback regulation. (Ord.
07-2432, 1-22-2007)
CHAPTER 7
BUSINESS DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: C1 - Village Center Commercial District
10-7-2: C2 - Community Shopping District
10-7-3: O - Limited Office District
10-7-4: ORI - Office Research And Limited Industrial District
10-7-5: DT - Downtown Transitional District
10-7-6: Personal Wireless Service Facility On Village Owned Property
10-7-7: MXD - Mixed Use Commercial-Residential District
10-7-1: C1 - VILLAGE CENTER COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Bakeries.
Culinary schools.
Dwelling units located on the second floor or above, provided the minimum floor
area per dwelling unit meets the requirements of subsection
10-6-5I of this ordinance.
Offices.
Restaurants, except drive-in and drive-through restaurants.
Retail stores (excluding retail sales of firearms and ammunition), including,
but not limited to, food stores, candy shops, clothing and shoe stores,
sporting goods stores (excluding retail sales of firearms and ammunition),
fabric shops, furniture and home furnishings stores, camera and photographic
shops, appliance stores, florists, jewelry stores, hardware stores (excluding
the retail sale of firearms and ammunition), drugstores and gift stores.
Service uses including, but not limited to, laundry and dry cleaning
facilities, beauty parlors, travel agencies, financial institutions and shoe
repair.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
All retail establishments, financial institutions and service uses that include
drive-through facilities.
Automobile service stations.
Commercial/residential mixed use development.
Fire and police stations.
Municipally owned parking lots, commuter or otherwise.
Music, art and dance schools.
Outdoor eating facilities, in connection with restaurants, provided the owner
or operator shall provide daily litter cleanup within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of the property along the rights of way of public streets abutting the
property.
Post offices.
Privately owned parking lots, provided that the parking lot is exclusively used
in conjunction with an adjacent building located in the C1 - village center
commercial district as a convenience for patrons, employees, tenants and owners
of the building. As a condition of the issuance of the conditional use permit,
the property owner shall file with the office of the Cook County recorder of
deeds a covenant against title to the commercial building and parking lot
properties, which has been approved by the village attorney, requiring that
title to said properties always be held by the same owner. A copy of the
recorded covenant shall be filed with the village. The private parking lot
shall not be operated as a commuter parking lot.
Village government offices and buildings and telecommunication towers,
antennas, and personal wireless services facilities, but prohibiting
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height, except
for monopoles owned by a state, federal or local government body that are used
primarily for governmental or public safety communications, provided that the
monopole has a maximum height of one hundred feet (100') and conforms to the
regulations set forth in chapter 4, part V of this ordinance. (Ord. 92-1855,
12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 93-1885, 12-20-1993; Ord. 94-1921, 12-12-1994; Ord. 00-
2113, 1-24-2000; Ord. 00-2114, 1-24-2000; Ord. 03-2250, 7-14-2003; Ord. 04-
2294, 5-24-2004; Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007; Ord. 11-2637, 6-27-2011; Ord. 21-
3044, 6-28-2021)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: None.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: None.
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front yard: None required.
      2.   Corner side yard: None required.
      3.   Interior side yard: None required.
      4.   Rear yard: Ten percent (10%) of the lot depth or ten feet (10'),
whichever is less.
   F.   Transitional Yard Requirements: Where the lot line of a lot in the C1
district abuts a lot in a residence district, a transitional yard will be
provided as outlined below:
      1.   Front yard: None required.
      2.   Corner side yard: Where the rear lot line of a corner lot abuts a
lot in a residential district, or is located across a street right of way from
a residential lot, a five foot (5') corner side yard shall be provided.
      3.   Interior side yard: Equal to that of the abutting residential
district, but not less than five feet (5').
      4.   Rear yard: Ten percent (10%) of the lot depth or twenty feet (20'),
whichever is less.
   G.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Permitted uses: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2)
stories, whichever is less.
      2.   Conditional uses: Forty five feet (45') or three and one-half (31/2)
stories, whichever is less.
      3.   Conditional uses for Commercial/Residential Mixed Use Developments:
Forty-five feet (45') or four (4) stories, whichever is less, provided that the
fourth story is set back a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from the front
building parapet wall." (collectively, the "Code Amendments"); and
   H.   Maximum Building Coverage: The amount of lot area covered by permitted
or accessory buildings or structures shall not exceed ninety percent (90%).
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 21-3044, 6-28-2021; amd. Ord. 22-3075, 4-
25-2022)
10-7-2: C2 - COMMUNITY SHOPPING DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Art gallery and artists' studios.
Automobile service and repair to include gasoline sales and outdoor sales and
display limited to the sales of tires, motor oil and other typical automobile
service goods.
Bakeries.
Culinary schools.
Garden centers and florists, including outdoor sales where such outdoor sales
areas are separated and screened from parking areas and public streets.
Laundry and dry cleaning facilities.
Offices.
Restaurants, except drive-in restaurants and restaurants with drive-through
facilities.
Retail stores as listed under the C1 - village center commercial district.
Service uses as listed under the C1 - village center commercial district.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
All retail establishments, financial institutions and service uses that include
drive-through facilities.
Animal hospitals, veterinarians' offices.
Car washes.
Churches, synagogues and other places of religious worship, including any
related parsonage, convent or retreat house.
Daycare centers.
Drive-in restaurants and restaurants with drive-through facilities.
Hotels and motels.
Nursing homes and convalescent centers.
Planned developments.
Police and fire stations.
Vehicle sales, new and used, including automobiles, motorcycles and
recreational vehicles.
Village government offices and buildings and telecommunication towers,
antennas, and personal wireless services facilities, but prohibiting
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height, except
for monopoles owned by a state, federal or local government body that are used
primarily for governmental or public safety communications, provided that the
monopole has a maximum height of one hundred feet (100') and conforms to the
regulations set forth in chapter 4, part V of this ordinance. (Ord. 92-1855,
12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 93-1885, 12-20-1993; Ord. 00-2113, 1-24-2000; Ord. 00-
2114, 1-24-2000; Ord. 01-2167, 5-21-2001; Ord. 04-2294, 5-24-2004; Ord. 07-
2432, 1-22-2007)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: Twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: One hundred fifty feet (150').
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front yard: Fifty feet (50').
      2.   Corner side yard: Fifty feet (50').
      3.   Interior side yard: Fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Rear yard: Twenty five feet (25').
   F.   Minimum Open Space: The minimum amount of open space (lot area not
covered with buildings, paving or other impervious surface materials) shall not
be less than twenty percent (20%) of lot area.
   G.   Maximum Building Height: No building shall exceed thirty five feet
(35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories in height, whichever is less. (Ord.
92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-7-3: O - LIMITED OFFICE DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Multi-family dwelling units, located above the first floor.
Professional offices, including, but not limited to, offices for attorneys,
physicians, dentists, architects, consulting engineers, insurance agents, and
village government offices. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship.
Financial institutions that may or may not include drive- through facilities.
Libraries.
Planned developments.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Schools, public and private including elementary, junior high and high schools
but excluding colleges, universities and trade schools. (Ord. 04-2299, 6-28-
2004)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: Six thousand two hundred (6,200) square feet.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Fifty feet (50').
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements: Yard requirements shall be the same as those
in the adjacent or nearest residential district, provided that in the front
yard, no parking shall be allowed.
   F.   Minimum Open Space: The minimum amount of open space (lot area not
covered with buildings, paving or other impervious surface materials) shall not
be less than forty percent (40%) of lot area.
   G.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories, whichever is less.
   H.   Maximum Building Coverage:
      1.   Corner lots: Thirty five percent (35%) of lot area.
      2.   Interior lots: Forty percent (40%) of lot area. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-
14-1992)
10-7-4: ORI - OFFICE RESEARCH AND LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses shall consist of office, research and
light industrial uses operated within entirely enclosed buildings which do not
produce nuisances in terms of noise, smoke, light, odor, vibration, fumes, dust
or traffic and are compatible with adjacent public, residential or business
uses, including, but not limited to, the following:
Accessory uses and buildings, incidental to and on the same zoning lot as the
principal use.
Contractors' offices.
Light assembly.
Offices.
Public service buildings and uses.
Research and development.
Storage, within enclosed buildings including self-storage facilities. (Ord. 09-
2530, 3-23-2009)
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Adult uses.
Laundry facilities.
Outdoor storage yards which are accessory to permitted uses conducted
principally within enclosed buildings.
Retail sales of firearms and ammunition.
Theaters.
Village government offices and buildings and telecommunication towers,
antennas, and personal wireless services facilities, but prohibiting
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height, except
for monopoles owned by a state, federal or local government body that are used
primarily for governmental or public safety communications, provided that the
monopole has a maximum height of one hundred feet (100') and conforms to the
regulations set forth in chapter 4, part V of this ordinance. (Ord. 03-2266,
10-27-2003; amd. Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: Twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: One hundred feet (100').
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front yard: Fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Corner side yard: Fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Interior side yard: Six feet (6').
      4.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20').
   F.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories, whichever is less.
   G.   Maximum Building Coverage: Sixty percent (60%) of lot area. (Ord. 03-
2266, 10-27-2003)
10-7-5: DT - DOWNTOWN TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Accessory uses and buildings, incidental to and on the same zoning lot as the
principal use.
Churches, synagogues and other places of religious worship, including any
related parsonage, convent or retreat house.
Two-family dwellings. (Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003)
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Churches, synagogues and other places of worship including any related
parsonage, convent or retreat house in cases where said building or structure
does not meet the minimum requirements of chapter 4, "Development Standards Of
General Applicability", of this ordinance, this chapter, and chapter 11,
"Floodplain And Stormwater Management", of this ordinance or where a use does
not qualify as an accessory use of said church, synagogue or other place of
worship.
Daycare centers located in institutional buildings (e.g., churches, schools,
etc.).
Libraries, publicly owned not for profit.
Municipal utility and service uses including fire stations, police stations,
waterworks, reservoir, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Planned developments.
Private utilities including substations, transmission facilities and related
facilities and telecommunication towers, antennas, and personal wireless
services facilities, but prohibiting transmitting or receiving
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height.
Privately owned parking lots, provided that the parking lot is exclusively used
in conjunction with an adjacent building located in the C1 village center
commercial district as a convenience for patrons, employees, tenants and owners
of the building. As a condition of the issuance of the conditional use permit,
the property owner shall file with the Cook County recorder of deeds a covenant
against title to the commercial building and parking lot properties requiring
that title to said properties always be held by the same owner. A copy of the
recorded covenant shall be filed with the village. The private parking lot
shall not be operated as a commuter parking lot.
Public parking lots owned and operated by the village of Western Springs.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Schools, public and private including elementary, junior high, and high
schools, but excluding colleges, universities and trade schools.
Single-family attached dwellings, up to four (4) dwelling units per building.
(Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003; amd. Ord. 07-2432, 1-22-2007)
   C.   Minimum Lot Area:
      1.   Two-family dwellings: Three thousand one hundred (3,100) square feet
per dwelling unit.
      2.   Single-family attached dwellings: Three thousand one hundred (3,100)
square feet per dwelling unit.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: Fifty feet (50'), except that lots platted after the
effective date hereof shall be not less than sixty feet (60') in width.
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30') provided that the front yard need not
be any greater than the average setback of existing dwellings along the same
block face.
      2.   Corner side yard: Fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Interior side yard: For all lots, including corner lots, and
reversed corner lots platted prior to October 1, 1999, the corner side yard
shall be ten feet (10') or ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is
less. For interior lots only, the other yard shall be not less than ten feet
(10') in width.
For reversed corner lots, platted after October 1, 1999, the corner side yard
shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') and not less than the average setback
of existing dwellings along the same block face yet not be required to be
greater than the required front yard setback of the district.
      4.   Rear yard: Thirty feet (30').
   F.   Maximum Building Height: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half
(21/2) stories, whichever is less. In no case shall building height exceed
thirty eight feet (38') as measured from the sidewalk level, or its equivalent
established grade, opposite the middle front of the building at the top of the
highest gable.
   G.   Maximum Building Coverage: The surface coverage of all principal and
enclosed buildings and structures shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
lot area. Notwithstanding the above, the maximum allowable building coverage
shall be reduced by four hundred forty (440) square feet and said reduction
shall be allocated for garage space, attached or detached, present or future.
   H.   Floor Area, Gross (For Determining Allowable Area In Two- Family
Residential Districts): Except as hereinafter provided, the sum of the gross
horizontal areas of all floors of all stories and partial stories of a
building, or such area devoted to a specific use, measured from the exterior
face of exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2)
buildings or uses. The application of the gross floor area regulations shall be
in conformance with appendix B that is an integral part of this ordinance.
(Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003)
10-7-6: PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY ON VILLAGE OWNED PROPERTY:
Personal wireless service facilities (including telecommunication towers and
antennas) located on property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the
village are permitted in any zoning district provided a license agreement or
lease agreement authorizing such personal wireless service facilities has been
approved by the village and the other applicable provisions of this ordinance
are complied with, except that towers and related personal wireless service
support facilities are not permitted in any village public right of way within
two hundred feet (200') of any habitable residential building or structure. The
installation and maintenance of antennas, nontower personal wireless service
facilities and related personal wireless service support facilities such as the
installation of wi-fi equipment and related infrastructure on light poles or
utility poles located on property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the
village is not subject to the two hundred foot (200') setback regulation. (Ord.
07-2432, 1-22-2007)
10-7-7: MXD - MIXED USE COMMERCIAL-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Each of the permitted uses allowed in the C1 - village center commercial
district.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
All retail establishments, financial institutions and service uses that include
drive-through facilities.
Daycare centers.
Planned developments including commercial-residential mixed use developments.
Private utilities, including substations, transmission facilities and related
facilities, and telecommunication towers, antennas and personal wireless
services facilities, but prohibiting transmitting or receiving
telecommunication towers greater than forty five feet (45') in height.
Privately owned parking lots, provided that the parking lot is exclusively used
in conjunction with an adjacent building located in the MXD - mixed use
commercial- residential district as a convenience for patrons, employees,
tenants and owners of the building. As a condition of the issuance of the
conditional use permit, the property owner shall file with the office of the
Cook County recorder of deeds a covenant against title to the building and
parking lot properties, which has been approved by the village attorney,
requiring that title to said properties always be held by the same owner. A
copy of the recorded covenant shall be filed with the village. The private
parking lot shall not be operated as a commuter parking lot, unless the
village's corporate authorities, by adoption of an ordinance, allow for the use
as a commuter parking lot but not a detached multilevel enclosed parking
garage.
   C.   Eligible Properties: The properties that are eligible to be rezoned to
this district are located at the southeast corner of the Burlington Avenue and
Wolf Road intersection and are identified as property index numbers 18-05-305-
011, 18-05-305-028 and 18-05-305-029 (formerly the Tischler's Grocery Store
site and the Breen's Drycleaner Store site); property index numbers 18-05-305-
009, 18-05-305-010 and 18-05-305-023 (the Benak Auto Repair Shop site); and
property index numbers: 18-05-305-026 (the Commonwealth Edison site).
   D.   Minimum Lot Area: None.
   E.   Minimum Lot Width: None.
   F.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front yard: None.
      2.   Corner and reversed corner side yard: None.
      3.   Interior side yard: None.
      4.   Rear yard: None.
      5.   Side yard: None.
   G.   Transitional Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front yard: None.
      2.   Corner side yard: None.
      3.   Interior side yard: Equal to that of the abutting residential
district, but not less than five feet (5'); except that no interior side yard
is required if the abutting property is not used for a residential purpose. The
setback requirement may be waived or reduced by the village's corporate
authorities as part of the approval of a development application.
      4.   Side yard: Equal to that of the abutting residential district, but
not less than five feet (5'); except that no side yard is required if the
abutting property is not used for a residential purpose. The setback
requirement may be waived or reduced by the village's corporate authorities as
part of the approval of a development application.
      5.   Rear yard: Twenty percent (20%) of the lot depth or thirty feet
(30'), whichever is less; except that no rear yard is required if the abutting
property is not used for a residential purpose. The setback requirement may be
waived or reduced by the village's corporate authorities as part of the
approval of a development application.
   H.   Minimum Required On Site Parking For Residential Dwelling Units: One on
site parking stall per dwelling unit shall be provided for all multi-unit
residential developments and commercial-residential mixed use developments.
   I.   On Site Parking For Commercial Spaces; Building Height Adjustment: On
site parking spaces are not required to serve the commercial spaces located in
a commercial-residential mixed use development; however, if on site parking
spaces are dedicated for use by customers of the commercial tenant spaces, then
the maximum building height of the commercial- residential mixed use
development can be increased as provided in subsection J3 of this section.
   J.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Permitted uses: Thirty five feet (35'), or two and one-half (21/2)
stories, whichever is less.
      2.   Conditional uses: Forty five feet (45'), or three and one- half (31/
2) stories, whichever is less.
      3.   Conditional use with on site parking for commercial spaces: Fifty
feet (50') or four (4) stories, whichever is less. For each on site parking
space that is dedicated for use by customers of the commercial spaces, the
forty five foot (45') maximum building height under subsection J2 of this
section can be increased by one-half foot (0.5') up to a maximum of five feet
(5') of additional vertical building height.
   K.   Minimum Setback For Fourth Floor: At least fifty percent (50%) of each
side of the building adjacent to a public right of way (e.g., alley, sidewalk
or street) shall have its fourth floor exterior wall set back from the third
floor exterior perimeter wall a distance of at least six feet (6.0').
   L.   Maximum Building Coverage: The amount of lot area covered by a
principal building shall not exceed ninety percent (90%).
   M.   Minimum Floor Area For Dwelling Units: The minimum floor area for
dwelling units is set forth below:
      1.   Studio units: Six hundred fifty (650) square feet.
      2.   One bedroom units: Eight hundred (800) square feet.
      3.   Two (2) bedroom units: One thousand (1,000) square feet.
      4.   Three (3) bedroom units: One thousand two hundred (1,200) square
feet.
The minimum floor area requirement for any dwelling unit(s) may be reduced by
no more than twenty percent (20%) by ordinance approved by the village's
corporate authorities as part of the approval of commercial- residential mixed
use development after a public hearing is conducted by the plan commission.
Major changes to a set of approved final plans for a commercial-residential
mixed use development may be approved by ordinance by the village's corporate
authorities at a public meeting after compliance with subsection
10-8-5D of this ordinance. Minor changes to a set of approved final plans for a
commercial-residential mixed use development may be approved by ordinance by
the village's corporate authorities at a public meeting after compliance with
subsection
10-8-5D of this ordinance. The submittal requirements for any minor changes to
an approved set of final plans shall be a revised set of final plans showing
the proposed changes and a signed cover memorandum from the architect or
applicant explaining the changes and such other relevant documents requested by
the community development director and the corporate authorities of the
village. Minor changes shall not result in or create nonconformities with this
ordinance. Major changes and minor changes are defined in subsection
10-8-5B of this ordinance.
   N.   Exemptions For Planned Developments: Any development that is approved
as a planned development under this district shall be exempt from the following
regulations contained in chapter 8, "Planned Developments", of this ordinance:
      1.   Subsection
10-8-3E: The minimum area of a planned development should be five (5) acres.
      2.   Subsection
10-8-3F: Yards along the periphery of a planned development should be
compatible with the yards of the adjacent properties.
      3.   Subsection
10-8-4A3: Proposed use exceptions shall not represent more than forty percent
(40%) of the site area or more than forty percent (40%) of the total floor
area, whichever is less. However, in a residential planned development area no
more than ten percent (10%) of the site area or a total floor area whichever is
less, shall be devoted to commercial use, and provided that such commercial use
is integral to the nature of the planned development.
      4.   Subsection
10-8-4B1b: In residential planned developments, the maximum number of dwelling
units allowed shall not exceed by more than forty percent (40%) of the number
of dwelling units permitted in the underlying zoning district.
      5.   Subsection
10-8-4B1c: The area of open space provided in a planned development shall be at
least twenty five percent (25%) more than that required in the underlying
zoning district.
      6.   Subsection
10-8-4B1d: Along the periphery of such planned developments, yards shall be
provided as required by the regulations of the underlying zoning district.
      7.   Subsection
10-8-4B1e: Building height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35'), except that
utilization of a building existing on the site which is taller than thirty five
feet (35') shall be permitted.
      8.   Section
10-4-9, "Landscape Requirements": All developments in this district are exempt
from the landscape requirements of this ordinance, subject to compliance with
subsection O of this section.
   O.   Landscape Plan: As part of the application, the applicant shall provide
a detailed landscape and streetscape plan for the development for village staff
review and input, which shall be subject to approval by the village board after
a recommendation is received from the plan commission.
   P.   Application Submittals, Approval Process, And Exceptions:
      1.   Application Submittals: The required submittals for a commercial-
residential mixed use development shall be as set forth in subsection P4 of
this section. The required submittals for any other conditional use or any
other planned development shall be the same as set forth in subsection
10-3-14C, "Initiation Of Conditional Use Application", or section
10-8-8, "Submittal Requirements", of this ordinance, as applicable; however,
the village board, at any time after the application is filed or as part of any
preliminary or final approval, may approve the modification and/or reduction of
the required application submission materials by passage of motion, resolution
or ordinance for any proposed planned development or a commercial-residential
mixed use development.
      2.   Review And Approval Process: The procedure for consideration of an
application for a commercial-residential mixed use development, a conditional
use or a planned development under this district shall be the same as set forth
in subsections
10-3-14E, "Public Hearing", and 10-3-14F, "Plan Commission Action", and section
10-8-5, "Procedure", of this ordinance, except an applicant may request a
"simultaneous approval process" that combines the preliminary plan and final
plan approvals as set forth in subsections
10-8-5B and C of this ordinance.
      3.   Exceptions: At the request of the applicant, the village board may
grant exceptions from any of the applicable submittal requirements, standards
or the applicable provisions of this ordinance as part of the consideration of
the application and/or approval of application for commercial- residential
mixed use development, a conditional use or a planned development.
      4.   Submittals; Commercial-Residential Mixed Use Development: The
required submittals for a commercial-residential mixed use development shall be
as follows:
         a.   Narrative description of the project, developer/applicant
background and experience, and description of how the plan complies with the
design guidelines of the 2011 downtown redevelopment plan.
         b.   Market study (prepared by applicant or others) including unit
sizes, sales projections, marketing materials, impact fees, real estate tax and
sales tax projections, and land dedications and other relevant data.
         c.   Project pro forma (required only if financial incentives are
requested).
         d.   Plat of survey.
         e.   Site plan (which shows the location and dimensions of all
proposed buildings, structures, driveways, easements, landscaping and site data
table for bulk regulations and parking).
         f.   A topographic survey and location map.
         g.   Floor plans for all levels of the building.
         h.   Exterior/interior color perspective drawings.
         i.   Building elevation drawings.
         j.   Signage plan.
         k.   Sample building materials (including exterior wall and window
materials, shingles, etc.).
         l.   Engineering plans.
         m.   Stormwater drainage calculations, SWPPP and related plans.
         n.   Landscape plan (including proposed location of fences, walls,
landscape and other improvements).
         o.   Lighting and photometric plan.
         p.   Traffic study.
         q.   School impact study.
         r.   Plat of condominium conforming to the Illinois condominium
property act 1  or plat of subdivision (in recordable form) (required at the
time of request for a temporary or final occupancy permit).
         s.   Declaration of easements, covenants and restrictions (approved as
to form and content by the village attorney) and bylaws of proposed homeowners'
association (required at the time of request for a temporary or final occupancy
permit).
         t.   Property maintenance plan (which covers the continued maintenance
of the common areas, landscaped areas, driveways and exterior of the buildings,
unless maintenance is covered in declaration) (approved as to form and content
by the director of community development) (required at the time of request for
a temporary or final occupancy permit).
         u.   Statement of legal ownership of the property, the ownership
interest of the applicant in the property, a listing of all restrictions, lis
pendens and encumbrances of record (or a title commitment), the nature of
ownership to the subsequent purchasers (fee simple title, condominium, etc.)
and the legal description of the property.
The village board, in its discretion and based on a recommendation from the
director of community development or the village engineer, may require that
additional specific documents unique to a proposed conditional use/planned
development be filed as part of the application process or may waive the
requirement of the preparation and filing of one or more of the above
documents.
      5.   Submittals For Building Permit: As a condition of approval of a
building permit application (or conditional use permit), the applicant shall
submit to the department of community development as part of the plan review
and final approval by the department or the village board, as appropriate:
         a.   The final versions of the documents required under subsection P4
of this section.
         b.   Grading plan with executed grading and stormwater maintenance
facility agreement (on the village approved form).
         c.   Engineering plans.
         d.   Soil borings and test results and environmental inspection
reports to assess site preparation and construction management plan and
protocols.
         e.   All applicable federal, state, county and local permits, licenses
and approvals.
      6.   Improvement Standards: All improvements to real property within this
district shall conform to the applicable regulations of the Western Springs
municipal code, unless a waiver, variance or other development allowance is
approved by ordinance by the village board.
      7.   Plats Of Subdivisions: Provided that no public improvements are
required, any plat of subdivision or resubdivision or plat of condominium for
real property in this district shall be classified as a minor subdivision,
shall be processed under the minor subdivision regulations of subsection
10-10-3C of this ordinance and the four (4) or fewer lot limitation for minor
subdivisions shall not apply to a commercial-residential mixed use development.
The village board may also grant exceptions from any of the applicable
submittal requirements, standards or the applicable provisions of this
ordinance as part of its approval of the plat. (Ord. 15-2786, 2-23-2015)
 
Notes
1 1.765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 8
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Intent Of Planned Developments
10-8-3: Guidelines
10-8-4: Exceptions From District Regulations
10-8-5: Procedure
10-8-6: Schedule Of Construction
10-8-7: Recording Of Final Plan
10-8-8: Submittal Requirements
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
Planned development regulations allows for large-scale development of
innovative design by permitting some relaxation of the requirements of the
underlying zone district regulations and of the subdivision regulations. A
planned development is a conditional use that may be granted by the Village
Board should it determine that the planned development is in the best interest
of the Village and complies with all the standards established in this Chapter.
The Plan Commission and Village Board may require any reasonable condition or
design consideration that will promote proper development or benefit to the
community. The planned development should provide amenities not otherwise
required in this Ordinance and establish facilities and open space greater than
the maximum required in this Ordinance. It is not intended that the Board
automatically grant the maximum use exceptions or density premiums in the case
of each planned development. The Plan Commission shall recommend and the Board
grant only such premiums or latitudes that are consistent with sound land use
planning, Village growth policy, accrue benefits to the Village and which
preserve the basic high quality single- family character of the Village of
Western Springs.
As a condition of approval, each planned development must be compatible with
the character and objectives of the zoning district or districts within which
it is located, and each planned development shall be consistent with the
official planning policies of the Village of Western Springs.
As specified in this Ordinance, planned developments shall be considered
conditional uses in those zoning districts in which they are allowed. Every
planned development shall conform to the intent and the character of the zoning
district in which it is located. A planned development is not a vehicle to
achieve a zoning change. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-8-2: INTENT OF PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
The intent of the planned development option is to:
   A.   Afford greater choice in the types of development available to the
public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other requirements of this Ordinance;
   B.   Allow for a more creative approach to the use of land and related
physical facilities that results in better development, design and the
construction of aesthetic amenities;
   C.   Promote preservation of common open space and provide more usable and
suitably located recreation areas and facilities;
   D.   Encourage a pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation,
topographic and geographic features; and architectural and historic landmarks;
   E.   Permit an efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks
of utilities, streets, schools, public grounds, and buildings, and other
facilities; and
   F.   To encourage the use of land which promotes the public health, safety,
comfort, morals and welfare. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-8-3: GUIDELINES:
The following guidelines will be used by the Plan Commission and Village Board
to evaluate the suitability of proposed planned developments. These guidelines
represent sound planning principles which the Village thinks should be
incorporated into planned developments. However, it is not intended that each
and every one of these guidelines be rigidly conformed to, provided that just
cause for any departure from these guidelines is demonstrated.
   A.   The planned development should be compatible with the character of the
underlying zoning district in which it is located.
   B.   The planned development should be consistent with the official planning
policies and the Official Land Use Plan of the Village.
   C.   The planned development should preserve the value of the surrounding
residential area.
   D.   Any unusual physical, topographical or historical features of the site
of the planned development which are of importance to the people of the area or
the community should be preserved.
   E.   The minimum area of a planned development should be five (5) acres.
   F.   Yards along the periphery of a planned development should be compatible
with the yards of the adjacent properties. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-8-4: EXCEPTIONS FROM DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Use Exceptions: Uses not allowed in the regulations of the underlying
districts may be permitted in planned developments provided:
      1.   Proposed use exceptions enhance the quality of the planned
development and are compatible with the primary uses.
      2.   Proposed use exceptions are not of a nature, nor are located so as
to create a detrimental influence on the surrounding properties.
      3.   Proposed use exceptions shall not represent more than forty percent
(40%) of the site area or more than forty percent (40%) of the total floor
area, whichever is less. However, in a residential planned development area no
more than ten percent (10%) of the site area or a total floor area whichever is
less, shall be devoted to commercial use, and provided that such commercial use
is integral to the nature of the planned development.
      4.   No industrial use shall be permitted.
   B.   Site Design Regulations:
      1.   Exceptions From District Regulations: To help achieve the intended
benefits of a planned development, exceptions from the regulations of the
underlying district may be authorized, provided that:
         a.   Such exceptions are solely for the purpose of promoting a better
development that will be beneficial to the residents or occupants of the
planned development as well as those of surrounding properties.
         b.   In residential planned developments, the maximum number of
dwelling units allowed shall not exceed by more than forty percent (40%) of the
number of dwelling units permitted in the underlying zoning district.
         c.   The area of open space provided in a planned development shall be
at least twenty five percent (25%) more than that required in the underlying
zoning district.
         d.   Along the periphery of such planned developments, yards shall be
provided as required by the regulations of the underlying zoning district.
         e.   Building height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') except
that utilization of a building existing on the site which is taller than thirty
five feet (35') shall be permitted. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      2.   Sidewalks Required: Concrete sidewalks shall be installed as part of
all planned developments in accordance with the provisions of sections
8-2-1 and
9-13-6 of the village code. As an alternative to concrete sidewalks, sidewalks
may be constructed of brick pavers or similar materials when authorized by the
village board as part of a planned development. The plan commission shall
recommend and the village board shall approve the type of pedestrian
circulation system and the construction materials (concrete sidewalk or brick
pavers or similar materials) appropriate for the planned development. (Ord. 04-
2304, 6-28-2004)
10-8-5: PROCEDURE:
The administrative procedures for the review and approval of planned
development applications are set forth below:
   A.   Preapplication Conference: Prior to filing a formal application for
approval of a planned development, the developer shall schedule a
preapplication conference with the village manager. At this conference:
      1.   The developer presents his general concept for the proposed
development in accordance with subsection
10-8-8A of this chapter.
      2.   The village manager and/or village staff informs the developer of
applicable plan policies and standards.
   B.   Preliminary Plan: The preliminary plan of the planned development shall
be filed with the village manager, who shall in turn forward copies to the
secretary of the plan commission for distribution to members of the plan
commission. A public hearing shall be held by the plan commission to review the
proposed planned development and receive public comment. Procedures for the
preliminary plan stage shall consist of the following:
      1.   Submission Materials: The petitioner shall prepare and submit plans
and documents in conformance with the requirements of subsection
10-8-8B of this chapter.
      2.   Public Review Of Submissions: Submission materials shall be filed
for review and inspection by other government bodies and the general public.
      3.   Village Review Of Submission: The plan commission shall review the
proposed planned development requesting recommendations on the proposal from
the appropriate village commissions and staff.
      4.   Public Hearing: Within sixty (60) days of receipt of the preliminary
plan, the plan commission shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the
provisions of the state statutes for public hearings. Notice of the hearing
shall be published not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15)
days before said hearing in one or more newspapers within a general circulation
area of the village of Western Springs.
      5.   Plan Commission Findings: Within ninety (90) days of the close of
the public hearing the plan commission shall prepare findings of fact and
recommendations which shall be forwarded to the village board.
      6.   Village Board Action: Within sixty (60) days from receipt of the
plan commission report the village board shall subsequently either approve,
disapprove or approve with conditions the planned development. If approved or
approved with conditions, a schedule for submission of the final plan shall
then be established.
      7.   Recording Of Preliminary Plan: Following approval of the preliminary
plan, the preliminary plan documents shall be duly recorded with the village
clerk. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
      8.   Changes In A Preliminary Plan: Changes to an approved preliminary
plan shall be made as follows:
         a.   Major changes require the submission of a new preliminary plan
and supporting data in accordance with the requirements of this subsection B
and subsection
10-8-8B of this chapter, unless the village board, after considering the
recommendation of village staff, finds that a new preliminary plan or
supporting data is not required for a major change to a particular project and
the village board passes an ordinance by a majority vote that waives the
submission requirements or waives one or more of the submittals required under
this subsection B and subsection
10-8-8B of this chapter. Major changes are those which alter the concept or
intent, increase the density, increase building coverage, decrease the
separation between buildings, change the uses of the site, increase building
height, reduce open space, change by more than fifteen percent (15%) the
proportion of housing types, change road standards or locations, change sewer,
water, or electrical utilities, change proposed drainage, change the final
governing agreements of the planned development, or change the development
schedule by more than six (6) months. (Ord. 04-2304, 6-28-2004)
         b.   Minor changes to an approved preliminary plan shall not be
required to submit a new preliminary plan but shall be required to identify the
minor changes on the final plan document. Minor changes are those which are not
major.
   C.   Final Plan: The final plan shall be submitted to the village manager
not later than three hundred sixty five (365) days (or such time as the village
board may approve from time to time) following approval of the preliminary plan
or resubmittal of the preliminary plan in accordance with subsection
10-8-8B of this chapter shall be required. The preliminary and final plans may
be submitted simultaneously if all requirements of this ordinance are met. If
submitted separately, the final plan shall conform substantially with the
approved preliminary plan. The procedure for the final plan stage is as
follows:
      1.   Final Plan Submissions: The petitioner shall prepare and submit
plans and documents in conformance with the requirements of subsection
10-8-8C of this chapter.
      2.   Construction Schedule: A written construction schedule shall
accompany the submission documents and will be part of the final plan approval.
      3.   Staff Review: Within sixty (60) days village staff shall conduct a
review of the submission documents and forward their recommendations to the
village board.
      4.   Village Board Action: Following staff review, the plan commission
shall review the final plan and shall return its recommendation to the board
within forty five (45) days. The village board will then either approve or
disapprove the final plan within forty five (45) days. A copy of the village
board resolution approving or denying the final plan will be filed with the
office of the village clerk. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   D.   Changes In The Planned Development: The development of a planned
development shall be in conformance with the approved and recorded final plan
documents and all supporting data. The approved documents shall be binding on
the applicants and their successors, grantees and assignees and shall limit and
control the use, improvement and development of the planned development as set
forth therein. Changes in final plan documents are subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   Authorized Administrative Changes: The approved final plan may be
altered to change the location of buildings or platted lot lines that do not
increase density, or increase the overall building coverage on the altered
lots, or decrease the separation between buildings beyond the minimum allowable
setbacks, and the final plan may also be altered to allow minor changes to the
geometric locations of portions of streets and parking lots, provided the
proposed changes do not alter the concept or intent, as approved by the
director of community development when such changes are requested pursuant to
obtaining a building permit. However, such changes shall not decrease a
peripheral yard or peripheral open space.
      2.   Minor Changes In A Final Plan: A final plan may be changed, subject
to village board approval, without modifying the preliminary plan, provided the
proposed changes do not alter the concept or intent, increase the density,
increase building coverage, decrease the separation between buildings beyond
the required setbacks, change the uses of the site, increase building height,
reduce open space, change by more than fifteen percent (15%) the proportion of
housing types, change road standards or locations, change sewer, water or
electrical utilities, change proposed drainage, change the final governing
agreements of the planned development, or change the development schedule by
more than six (6) months.
      3.   Major Changes In A Final Plan: Changes other than those listed above
require the resubmission and approval of a revised final plan followed by
submission and approval of revised final plan materials, unless the village
board, after considering the recommendation of village staff, finds that a
submission of one or more of the final plan submissions is not required for a
major change to a final plan and the village board passes an ordinance by a
majority vote that waives the submission requirements or waives one or more of
the submittals required under subsection
10-8-8C of this chapter. (Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015)
10-8-6: SCHEDULE OF CONSTRUCTION:
The village board may declare the approval of a planned development revoked if
construction falls one year behind schedule or is ahead of schedule by one
year. The developer of the development shall be notified prior to any
revocation. Notification by registered or certified mail shall be considered
adequate notice. Extensions in the construction schedule may be granted by the
village board. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-8-7: RECORDING OF FINAL PLAN:
The petitioner shall record a copy of the approved final plan with the county
recorder of deeds. Proof of such recording shall be required prior to the
issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-8-8: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
Required plans and documents for each step of the planned development process
are set forth below:
   A.   Preapplication Stage:
      1.   A written letter of intent from the petitioner describing his
intention for developing the site.
      2.   A topographic survey and location map.
      3.   Sketch plans describing proposed land use(s), dwelling type(s) and
density, if applicable, street and lot arrangement, and tentative lot sizes.
      4.   Tentative proposals regarding site improvements such as water and
sewer utilities, surface drainage, open space and other public facilities and
street improvements.
      5.   Statement of ownership of all land within the proposed planned
development.
      6.   Other materials that may be requested by the village.
   B.   Preliminary Plan Stage: Required submission materials for the
preliminary plan stage are outlined below. The village board may modify and/or
reduce the required submission materials for any proposed planned development
by resolution upon request of the petitioner and after receiving the
recommendation of the village manager. The village manager shall inform the
petitioner in writing of any such modification or reduction.
      1.   Project Identification And Description: The following information is
required on the drawings submitted with the preliminary plan:
         a.   Proposed name of development (not duplicating the name of any
plat recorded in Will, Cook, or DuPage County).
         b.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, or developer having
control of the tract; name and seal of registered engineer and/or surveyor; and
the name and address of the site planner.
         c.   Graphic (engineering) scale not smaller than one inch equals
fifty feet (1" = 50').
         d.   Northpoint, designated as true north.
         e.   Date of preparation of original drawing and the date of any
revisions.
      2.   Existing Conditions: The following data/materials shall be submitted
relevant to existing site conditions:
         a.   A current plat of survey (boundary survey) prepared by a land
surveyor registered in the State.
         b.   A legal description of the site.
         c.   Existing zoning districts and current use of land on the site and
on adjacent property within one-half (1/2) block or four hundred feet (400') of
the subject site.
         d.   All existing or previously platted streets on the site, or on
adjacent property within one hundred feet (100') of the site, indicating their
location, width, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, culverts, center line elevation
and name.
         e.   Other rights of way, including railroads, utility ROWs and
drainage ways, and showing existing improvements, if any.
         f.   Existing permanent buildings and structures on the site, or on
adjacent property within fifty feet (50') of the site.
         g.   Utilities on the site, and on adjacent property within one
hundred feet (100') of the site, indicating: the location, size and invert
elevations of storm and combined sewers; the size and location on sanitary
sewers; the size and location of water mains; the location of fire hydrants;
the direction and distance to the nearest usable water mains and sewers; and
the location of private utilities such as gas, electric, and telephone lines
and easements.
         h.   A community location map, drawn at a scale of not less than one
inch equals one thousand feet (1" = 1,000'), showing the site boundary lines
and the ownership of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land within an area
bounded by the nearest arterial streets or other natural boundaries and
identifying types of uses of surrounding land and showing alignments of
existing streets.
         i.   Topographic data for the site and adjacent property within one
hundred feet (100') of the site, consisting of existing contours at one foot
(1') vertical intervals.
         j.   Hydrologic conditions including watercourses, flood plains, and
wetlands.
         k.   Existing vegetation on the site including trees of twelve inch
(12") diameter or more.
         l.   Soil conditions obtained from soil bearing data taken at
locations and depths as may be required by the Village Engineer.
         m.   Locations of or reference to existing monuments or survey markers
used in preparation of survey and the grade elevation of each monument and
marker.
         n.   Planned or proposed public improvements including highways and
public buildings planned for construction on or near the site.
         o.   Other existing conditions data as may be required by the Plan
Commission or the Village Board.
      3.   Project Design Features: Plans, drawings and other material which
indicate the design of buildings, streets, landscaping, engineering and other
project improvements shall be provided as required below. The submission
material described below notwithstanding, all required improvements shall be
made in accordance with the standards and specifications contained in Chapter
10 of this Ordinance, unless the Village Board, with the advice of the Village
Engineer, authorizes specific relief from them.
         a.   A detailed site plan indicating:
            (1)   Layout of streets and pedestrian ways showing right of way
and pavement widths, street names (not duplicating the name of any street used
in the Village or its environs, unless the street is an extension of an already
named street, in which event that name shall be used) and showing proposed
through streets extended to boundaries of the development.
            (2)   Layout, numbers, and typical dimensions of any subdivided
lots and building locations to the nearest foot; and the proposed land use for
each lot, parcel or tract.
            (3)   Proposed building setback lines, indicating dimensions.
            (4)   All proposed buildings, indicating their use, height and
number of units or floor area.
            (5)   Areas other than street right of way intended to be dedicated
or reserved for open space or other public use and showing the approximate area
in acres of parcel.
            (6)   Site plan data shall be compiled to identify: net site area;
total number of dwelling units; project density; total floor area; floor area
ratio; ground coverage of buildings; impervious surface coverage; maximum
building height; numbers of buildings by building type; number of parking
spaces required and provided; and subcategories of data for each type of land
use within the development.
            (7)   Sidewalks and pedestrian trails.
         b.   A grading plan at one foot (1') contour intervals indicating
proposed site grading and areas to be provided for any storm water detention
requirements.
         c.   A preliminary facilities plan indicating the feasibility of
providing utility service to the site via water mains, sanitary, and storm
sewers, and storm water detention facilities.
         d.   The design of all project signage, including project marketing
signage.
         e.   A preliminary landscape plan indicating the location, number and
desired effect of proposed landscaping. Plant material may be described in
terms of categories of plants such as "shade trees", "evergreen trees" and
"shrub masses" rather than specific plant species.
         f.   Architectural plans, preliminary sketches and renderings for all
primary buildings shall be submitted in sufficient detail to permit an
understanding of the style of the development.
         g.   Site lighting plan.
         h.   A sediment and erosion control plan indicating plans to control
erosion and sedimentation on and adjacent to the site.
      4.   Other Requirements: Applications for planned developments shall also
include the submission of the following:
         a.   Fiscal impact study comparing the projected tax revenue generated
by the project and the added costs for services as they will affect local
government jurisdictions.
         b.   School impact study indicating the number of new students
generated by the project. This information will be used in the fiscal impact
study above to determine the project's impact on local school districts.
         c.   Traffic impact study indicating the daily and peak traffic
generation and the impact of this added traffic on existing local traffic
patterns. This traffic study shall also evaluate the adequacy of the internal
street system.
         d.   Market study to evaluate the economic feasibility of the proposed
development, including market acceptance of the proposed development products,
competitive alignment and market absorption. The market study shall be prepared
by a qualified, independent market research firm.
         e.   A construction activities plan indicating how construction
activity will be controlled by addressing contractor ingress/egress,
construction parking, street cleaning and pest control.
         f.   Financial information including: a copy of lender's commitment;
MAI appraisals on the existing site and after development completion;
certificate of no delinquent taxes; and financial pro forma.
         g.   Proposed covenants to govern the use and maintenance of the
development and ensure the continued observance of the provisions of the
planned development.
         h.   A narrative description of the planned development describing:
the intent and desired effect of the development; the manner in which the
development has been planned to take advantage of the flexibility of the
planned development regulations; the superior benefits that would accrue to the
residents/users of the development; all relief sought from the standard
application of district requirements in conjunction with the project.
         i.   Proof of ownership and/or control of the site.
         j.   Notification list for public hearing comprised of all adjacent
land owners, existing owners of record of the subject site, and other persons
as may be added by the Village.
         k.   A development schedule indicating:
            (1)   A description of the stages in which the project will be
built including the public facilities to be constructed in each stage, the
density and/or floor area of buildings, open space, and the mix of uses in each
stage.
            (2)   The approximate dates of the beginning and end of each stage.
            (3)   The area and general content of each stage shall be shown on
a plat and supporting graphic material.
         l.   Submission and approval of all applicable plans and materials
required in Chapter 11 of this Ordinance, "Flood Plain and Storm Water
Management".
   C.   Final Plan Stage: The final plan shall be accurately drawn in ink on
material capable of producing clear and legible contact prints or photostatic
copies and shall show the following:
      1.   Identification And Description:
         a.   Name of developer.
         b.   Street names.
         c.   Location by section, township, and range by legal description.
         d.   Graphic (engineering scale be 1 inch to 100 feet).
         e.   Northpoint, designate as true north.
      2.   Planned Development Plat: The developer shall prepare a final,
detailed land use and zoning plat, suitable for recording with the County
Recorder of Deeds. The purpose of the planned development plat is to designate
with particularity the land subdivided into conventional lots, as well as the
division of other lands, not so treated, into common open areas and building
areas, and to designate and limit the specific internal uses of each building
or structure as well as of the land in general. The final planned development
plat and supporting data shall include the following:
         a.   All information for final plat as required in Chapter 10 of this
Ordinance.
         b.   Designation of the exact location of all buildings to be
constructed, and a designation of the specific internal uses to which each
building shall be put, including construction details; center line elevations;
pavement type; curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.; and a street numbering
designation shall be furnished for each building.
         c.   Common open space documents shall be provided indicating, at the
election of the Village, that common open space shall be as follows:
            (1)   Conveyed to a municipal or public corporation; or conveyed to
a not-for-profit corporation or entity established for the purpose of
benefiting the owners and residents of the planned development or adjoining
property owners, or any one or more of them; all lands conveyed under this
subsection shall be subject to the right of the grantee or grantees to enforce
maintenance and improvement of the common open space.
            (2)   Guaranteed by a restrictive covenant describing the open
space and its maintenance and improvement, running with the land for the
benefit of residents of the planned development or adjoining property owners
and/or both.
      3.   Final Landscape Plan: A final landscape plan shall be prepared in
substantial conformance to the approved preliminary landscape plan. The form
and content of the final landscape plan shall conform to the requirements of
Part III of Chapter 4 of this Ordinance. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
1CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMITY
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Nonconforming Uses Of Land, Buildings Or Structures
10-9-3: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish regulations and limitations on the
continued existence of uses, buildings and structures established prior to the
effective date of this Development Control Ordinance which do not conform to
the provisions of this Development Control Ordinance. Many such nonconformities
may continue, but the provisions of this Chapter are designed to curtail
substantial investment in such nonconformities and to bring about their
eventual elimination, where appropriate, in order to preserve the integrity of
the zoning districts and the regulations established by the Development Control
Ordinance. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-9-2: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND, BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Authority To Continue: Any lawfully nonconforming use of part or all of
a building or structure, or any lawfully existing nonconforming use of land not
involving a building or structure or involving a building or structure that is
accessory to such use of land, may be continued, so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the provisions of subsections
10-9-2B through G.
   B.   Ordinary Repair And Maintenance: Normal maintenance and incidental
repair or replacement, and installation or relocation of nonbearing walls,
nonbearing partitions, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, may be performed on any
building or structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming
use; provided, however, that this subsection shall not be deemed to authorize
any violation of subsections
10-9-2C through G.
   C.   Expansion: A nonconforming use shall not be extended, expanded,
enlarged or increased in intensity. Such prohibited activity shall include,
without being limited to:
      1.   Expansion of such use to any building or structure of land area
other than that occupied by such nonconforming use on the effective date of the
Development Control Ordinance, or any amendment hereto which causes such use to
become nonconforming;
      2.   Expansion of such use within a building or other structure to any
portion of the floor area that was not occupied by such nonconforming use on
the effective date of the Development Control Ordinance, or any amendment
hereto which causes such use to become nonconforming;
      3.   Operation of such nonconforming use in such a manner as to conflict
with, or to further conflict with, if already conflicting on the effective date
of the Development Control Ordinance, or in the amendments hereto, any
performance standards established for the district in which such use is
located.
   D.   Relocation: No building or structure that is devoted in whole or in
part to a nonconforming use shall be relocated in whole or in part to any other
location on the same or any other lot, unless the entire building or structure
and the use thereof shall thereafter conform to all the regulations of the
zoning district in which such building or structure and use are located after
being so relocated. No nonconforming use of land shall be relocated in whole or
in part to any other location on the same or any other lot, unless such use
shall thereafter conform to all the regulations of the zoning district in which
such use of land is located after being so relocated.
   E.   Change In Use: A nonconforming use of land or of a building or
structure shall not be changed to any use other than a use permitted in the
zoning district in which such land, building or structure is located. When such
nonconforming use has been changed to a permitted use, it shall only be used
thereafter for a use permitted in the zoning district in which it is located.
For the purpose of this subsection, a use shall be deemed to have been so
changed when an existing nonconforming use shall have been terminated and the
permitted use shall have commenced and continued for a period of seven (7)
days.
   F.   Abandonment Or Discontinuance: When a nonconforming use of land or a
nonconforming use of part or all of a building or structure is for any reason,
other than damage or destruction, discontinued or abandoned for a period of
three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days (regardless of any reservation
of an intent not to abandon and to resume such use), such use shall not
thereafter be re-established or resumed. Any subsequent use of such land,
building or structure shall comply with the regulations of the zoning district
in which such land, building or structure is located.
   G.   Damage Or Destruction: In the event that any building or structure that
is devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed,
by any means, to the extent of more than seventy five percent (75%) of the fair
market value of such building or structure (excluding the value of the land
upon which the building/structure is located) immediately prior to such damage,
such building or structure shall not be restored unless such building or
structure and the use thereof shall thereafter conform to all regulations of
the zoning district in which such building or structure and use are located.
When such damage or destruction is seventy five percent (75%) or less of the
fair market value of the building or structure (excluding the value of the land
upon which the building/structure is located) immediately prior to such damage,
such building or structure may be repaired and reconstructed and used for the
same purposes as it was before the damage or destruction, provided that such
repair or damage or reconstruction is commenced within six (6) months and
completed within twelve (12) months of the date of damage or destruction. (Ord.
92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-9-3: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Authority To Continue: Any nonconforming building or structure that is
devoted to a use that is permitted in the zoning district in which such
building or structure is located may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the provisions of this Ordinance. (Ord. 92-1855,
12-14-1992)
   B.   Enlargement, Repair, Alterations: Any nonconforming building or
structure may be enlarged, maintained, repaired or altered; provided that, no
such enlargement, maintenance, repair or alteration shall either create an
additional nonconformity or increase the degree of the existing nonconformity
of all or any part of such building or structure.
Notwithstanding the above, principal buildings or structures, constructed prior
to the date hereof, that are considered nonconforming solely due to the
nonconforming height of the building or structure, may be extended horizontally
at a height in excess of said permitted maximum height but not in excess of the
roofline of the existing building or structure. (Ord. 99-2082, 4-26-1999, eff.
8-1-1999)
   C.   Damage Or Destruction: In the event that any nonconforming building or
structure that is damaged or destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more
than seventy five percent (75%) of the fair-market value of such building or
structure (excluding the value of the land upon which the building/structure is
located) immediately prior to such damage, such building or structure shall not
be restored unless such building or structure and the use thereof shall
thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which such
building or structure and use are located. When such nonconforming building or
structure is damaged or destroyed by any means, by seventy five percent (75%)
of the fair-market value of the building or structure (excluding the value of
the land upon which the building/structure is located) immediately prior to
such damage, such building or structure may be repaired and reconstructed,
provided that such repair or restoration begins within six (6) months and is
diligently pursued to completion within twelve (12) months of the date of such
damage.
   D.   Relocation: No nonconforming building or structure shall be relocated
in whole or in part to any other location on the same or any other lot unless
the entire building or structure shall thereafter conform to the regulations of
the zoning district in which it is located after being relocated. (Ord. 92-
1855, 12-14-1992)
CHAPTER 1
DEVELOPMENT CONTROL ORDINANCE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Development Control Ordinance On File
10-1-1: DEVELOPMENT CONTROL ORDINANCE ON FILE:
Title 10, the Development Control Ordinance, is under a separate cover and is
not included in this Village Code. Said Ordinance is on file in the Village
Clerk's office. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 10
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose
10-10-2: Applicability
10-10-3: Procedures And Requirements For Subdivision Approval
10-10-4: General Design Standards
10-10-5: Location Of Residential Buildings
10-10-6: Pedestrian Circulation System
10-10-7: Streets
10-10-8: Easements
10-10-9: Sewer And Water System
10-10-10: Street Lighting
10-10-11: Street Signs
10-10-12: Utilities; Telephone, Electric And Gas
10-10-13: Monuments And Markers
10-10-14: Dedication Of Park Lands And School Sites Or Payments Of Fees In Lieu
Thereof
10-10-15: Mailboxes
10-10-16: Engineering Specifications
10-10-17: Other Construction Requirements
10-10-18: Soils, Grading, And Erosion Controls
10-10-19: Land Dedications And Completion, Maintenance And Acceptance Of
Improvements
10-10-20: Vacations
10-10-21: Plats Of Consolidation
10-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the harmonious and economic
development of the village of Western Springs through the orderly subdivision
of land, coordination of public and private streets, provisions of facilities
for drainage and flood control, and proper construction of streets, sewers,
sidewalks and utilities. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General Applicability: This chapter shall set forth regulations for the
subdivision of land; the dedication and acceptance of land for public use; the
preparation of plats; the vacation of plats; rights of way; easements,
drainage, and other improvements essential to service subdivided land; and the
procedures for the approval of subdivision plats in and about the village of
Western Springs, and related matters, in accordance with the provisions of the
Illinois municipal code, as amended, and all other laws pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   B.   Planned Development: The requirements of this chapter shall apply to
all proposed subdivisions in all districts. In planned developments required
improvements shall conform to the appropriate provisions of this chapter.
However, prior to the issuance of a building permit for the construction of a
planned development, drawings shall be prepared in conformance with the
approved planned development which comply with the requirements of subsections
10-10-3E and F2 of this chapter. Such drawings shall be submitted to the
village manager, who shall distribute them to village staff. Upon written
approval by the department of code enforcement and the village engineer a
building permit may then be issued. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-
2064, 12-21-1998)
10-10-3: PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
The procedures for subdivision approval are hereby established as outlined
below:
   A.   Preapplication Conference:
      1.   At the request of the applicant, the village manager or his designee
shall conduct a preapplication conference.
      2.   The village manager shall inform the applicant of applicable plans,
policies, and standards.
      3.   The applicant presents a general concept of the proposed
development.
   B.   Sketch Plan: A sketch plan phase is intended to familiarize the
subdivider with the provisions of this ordinance and to eliminate, wherever
possible, major revisions of the preliminary plan. The procedures are as
follows:
      1.   Sketch Plan Procedures:
         a.   The subdivider shall contact the chairman of the plan commission
through the village manager's office to have his proposal placed on the agenda
of the plan commission.
         b.   The subdivider shall submit twenty five (25) copies of the sketch
plan to the village clerk, along with all required filing fees. These copies
shall be submitted at least ten (10) working days before the meeting with the
plan commission. The information in the sketch plan shall be in conformance
with the requirements of this chapter.
         c.   The village clerk shall forward copies of the sketch plan to each
member of the plan commission, to the school boards within whose district the
property is located, to the Western Springs park district, the village
engineer, the village manager, to the village president, and to such other
persons as designated by the chairman of the plan commission. (Ord. 92-1855,
12-14-1992)
         d.   The village engineer and the department of code enforcement shall
submit their written reports to the plan commission, analyzing the sketch plan
and making recommendations for possible changes in the plan. The public bodies
may submit information to the plan commission that will be helpful in analyzing
the sketch plan. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
         e.   The subdivider shall meet with the plan commission to consider
the general layout and design of the road system, the lots and blocks, the
proposed utility lines, the land uses, both public and private, and any other
factors pertinent to the subdivision. The subdivider may have to prepare more
than one sketch plan to be submitted to the plan commission in order to
incorporate any necessary changes and modifications.
         f.   Written comments and suggestions from the plan commission shall
be referred to the petitioner within thirty (30) days of sketch plan meetings.
These comments should be used by the petitioner to guide the preparation of
preliminary plat documents.
      2.   Sketch Plan Information: The sketch plan shall include the following
information:
         a.   Boundaries of the property to be subdivided.
         b.   Land characteristics on the site, including streams, floodplain
areas, wooded areas, and areas of unstable soils.
         c.   Topographic information at one foot (1') intervals for a distance
of one hundred feet (100') beyond the periphery of the proposed subdivision.
         d.   Development characteristics including surrounding land uses,
existing structures on the site, and available utility lines.
         e.   The proposed layout of the streets, lots and blocks.
         f.   The proposed location of single-family residential areas, multi-
family residential areas, commercial areas, industrial areas, and all areas to
be dedicated to the public.
         g.   Existing easements and covenants affecting the site.
         h.   An analysis of the floodwater detention and release requirements
as specified in the floodplain regulations of the village.
         i.   A location sketch showing the relationship of the site to the
traffic arteries in the area.
         j.   An aerial photograph of the subject property and the surrounding
area with the boundaries of the subject property indicated thereon.
         k.   Other information as required by the plan commission. (Ord. 92-
1855, 12-14-1992)
   C.   Minor And Major Subdivisions And Administrative Minor Subdivisions:
      1.   Minor Subdivisions: Minor subdivisions, as defined in this
ordinance, are subdivisions of four (4) or fewer lots which do not require the
construction of public improvements. Minor subdivisions are subject to a one
stage approval process, that being the approval of final plats as contained in
subsection F of this section. Furthermore, the content of such final plat shall
be required to include only those items contained in subsection E2 of this
section that are applicable to minor subdivisions. Although not required, it is
recommended that applicants for minor subdivisions complete a preapplication
conference with village staff as outlined in subsection A of this section.
      2.   Major Subdivisions: Major subdivisions, as defined in this
ordinance, are any subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions. Major
subdivisions shall conform to all the procedures and submission requirements
established hereunder.
      3.   Administrative Minor Subdivisions (Residential Lots Only): An
administrative minor subdivision, as defined in this ordinance, is a
subdivision or resubdivision of one or more platted lots that results in the
creation of not more than two (2) lots that meet or exceed the minimum lot area
and size requirements for the applicable residential zoning district
classification and shall otherwise be in full compliance with applicable
provisions of this ordinance. Administrative minor subdivisions are subject to:
         a.   Submittal Requirements: A preapplication conference with village
staff. Submittal requirements for the preapplication conference shall consist
of:
            (1)   A general concept plan for development on the proposed lots,
including sketch plan information set forth in subsection B2 of this section.
The applicant shall prepare and submit an updated general concept plan for
submittal to the village that incorporates any necessary changes and
modifications required by the village staff, the village engineer and the
village attorney to comply with applicable regulations and this ordinance.
            (2)   A plat of resubdivision, which shall be subject to
resubmittal to address necessary changes and modifications required by the
village staff, the village engineer and the village attorney to comply with
applicable regulations and this ordinance. The content of the plat shall
include all applicable information required by subsection F2, "Final Plat Form
And Content", of this section.
            (3)   Other information as required by the director of community
development (e.g., compliance with section
10-11-1 of this ordinance, Western Springs floodplain and stormwater
management).
         b.   Application; Deposit And Reimbursement Of Village For Application
And Plat Review Fees And Costs: An applicant (the property owner or person with
an ownership interest in the property with the written consent of the property
owner) may apply for approval of a plat of an administrative minor subdivision
by completing and submitting an executed application and the submittal
requirements and paying to the village a required minimum deposit of one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). An application may be obtained from
the community development department or from the village website. The deposit
shall be used to pay for the review of the application, necessary document
preparation, and submittals by the village's staff, the village engineer, the
village attorney and any other village consultant requested by the community
development director as well as the filing fees of the Cook County recorder of
deeds (CCRD) office for the filing of the plat. If the deposit is insufficient
to satisfy the review costs and fees and filing fees, upon written request of
the community development director, the applicant is responsible for paying the
balance due and payment shall be a condition of final approval of the plat. The
community development director shall provide the applicant with an itemized
summary of the review costs and filing fees incurred in regard to the
application and plat approval.
         c.   Approval Process: A one stage approval process that requires
approval by the village board after a recommendation from the director of
community development. Village board action on an application for an
administrative minor subdivision does not require a public hearing before the
plan commission or a recommendation by the plan commission, unless a zoning
change or a variation is requested by the applicant. If a zoning change or
variation is requested by the applicant, a public hearing shall be conducted by
the plan commission in conformance with the provisions of this ordinance. (Ord.
15-2794, 3-23-2015)
   D.   Preliminary Plat: The preliminary plat is a detailed set of drawings
and supporting material, which will enable the village to make an informed
decision as to the merits of the proposed subdivision. Approval of the proposed
subdivision can be given at this stage, in reliance upon which the subdivider
can prepare his final engineering drawings and the final plat.
      1.   Filing The Preliminary Plat:
         a.   The subdivider shall file the application for a preliminary plat
with the village manager's office along with twenty five (25) copies of all
required maps, illustrations, drawings, reports and studies, and along with all
required filing fees. The village board shall refer the application to the plan
commission for its consideration, study, and recommendation.
         b.   The application shall be executed by all of the owners of record
of the subject property. If the property is held in a land trust, all
beneficial owners of the land trust shall also execute the application.
         c.   An application for a preliminary plat may be processed by some
party other than an owner of the subject property, provided that he reveal any
interest in the property or in the proceeds from the development of the
proposed subdivision.
         d.   The information required to be filed for a preliminary plat shall
be submitted at least ten (10) working days before its consideration by the
plan commission, and shall be in conformance with the requirements of this
chapter.
         e.   The village manager shall distribute the copies of the
preliminary plat to village staff and officials.
      2.   Action By The Plan Commission:
         a.   The plan commission shall study the merits of the preliminary
plat for a reasonable period of time. This review may be continued to
subsequent meetings of the plan commission. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
         b.   The village manager shall assist the plan commission by
forwarding all information filed by the applicant to all departments concerned
with subdivision approval and the village engineer for their review, comment,
and recommendation. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064, 12-21-1998)
         c.   If a zoning change or variation is requested by the subdivider,
in conjunction with the preliminary plat, a public hearing shall be conducted
by the plan commission in conformance with the provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
         d.   The plan commission shall submit its recommendation in writing to
the village board indicating either approval of the application, approval
subject to additional conditions and modifications, or denial of the
application. The plan commission shall specify the reasons for its
recommendations. A copy of such recommendation, which may include the
recommendations of the department of code enforcement and village engineer
shall be sent to the applicant. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 98-2064,
12-21-1998)
      3.   Action By The Village Board: The village board, within a reasonable
period of time after receipt of the recommendations of the plan commission,
shall approve the preliminary plat, approve it subject to conditions and
modifications, deny it, or refer the application to the plan commission for
further consideration and study.
         a.   Approval of the preliminary plat constitutes approval of the
layout of the streets, lots, blocks, and land uses and authorizes the
subdivider to prepare the detailed engineering drawings and the final plat.
Approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a maximum period of one
year, after which it shall be declared void.
         b.   If the Village Board approves the preliminary plat subject to
conditions and modifications, such approval shall be valid only when the
subdivider files with the Village Board written consent to such conditions and
modifications.
         c.   If the preliminary plat is approved or denied, the Village Board
shall state in writing its reasons for the approval or denial and copies of
these reasons shall be sent to the subdivider and the chairman of the Plan
Commission.
      4.   Required Information In The Preliminary Plat: The preliminary plat
shall include maps, drawings, and supporting material, which may have to be
revised several times before it is approved. The original draft of the
preliminary plat may be prepared by an engineer, surveyor, or land planner, but
the final draft of the preliminary plat shall be a boundary line closure with
the exact dimensions of all lot lines and angles shown, prepared by a surveyor
current to within six (6) months of the date of application. All maps shall be
drawn on a tracing medium in a manner that clear and legible prints can be made
therefrom, and shall be at a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100'), or some other scale specifically approved by the Village Engineer.
Included shall be the following:
         a.   A boundary line survey of the property to be subdivided prepared
by a surveyor. Shown on this survey shall be the boundary lines of the
property, easements, existing buildings, drainage courses, and culverts, along
with the legal description of the property and any covenants attached to the
property.
         b.   A topographic map of the property with contours at vertical
intervals of not more than one foot (1') except in unusual topographic
conditions in which case such vertical intervals may be altered as determined
by the Village Engineer. The topographic information shall be given for the
proposed subdivision and for a distance of one hundred feet (100') from the
periphery thereof. A project benchmark related to the USGS datum shall be noted
thereon.
         c.   A site analysis of the property including:
            (1)   Existing land uses both on the site and immediately adjacent
to it.
            (2)   On and off-site views.
            (3)   Wooded areas, with all mature trees of six inch (6") caliper
or greater spotted individually.
            (4)   Potential soil problem areas.
            (5)   Flood plain and wetland areas.
            (6)   Streams, drainage ditches, and standing water.
            (7)   General directions of storm water runoff across the property.
            (8)   Existing County or Municipal zoning on all parts of the
subject site.
            (9)   Corporate boundaries across or adjacent to the subject site,
including the boundaries of municipalities, school districts, park districts,
and fire protection districts.
            (10)   Soil borings sufficient in number and detail to determine
existing soil types, with a report of soil suitability for the proposed site
development.
         d.   Public utilities information including the location, invert
elevations, and size of any existing sanitary sewers and/or water lines on the
site and any easements and rights of way immediately adjacent to the site.
         e.   Transportation information, including the location of all
extensions of state, county, or municipal roads across or immediately adjacent
to the subject property.
         f.   A proposed site development plan which shall show the following:
            (1)   The location, width, and designation by type of all streets.
            (2)   The proposed land use areas, including total acreage and
total number of dwelling units, if any, including all public lands.
            (3)   All lots and blocks, along with the dimensions of the lot
lines and the square footage totals for each lot.
            (4)   The location, invert elevation, and size of any proposed
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, storm water detention areas, and water lines.
            (5)   Typical cross-sections of all the streets proposed to be
constructed or reconstructed as a part of this development.
            (6)   All setback lines.
            (7)   All easements, labeled as to function.
         g.   Written documents, which shall include the following:
            (1)   A draft of the protective covenants, and Homeowners
Association Agreement and Declaration, if any.
            (2)   An indication of the expected scheduling or phasing of the
subdivision.
            (3)   A traffic analysis study.
            (4)   A tax impact study, if required by the Plan Commission or
Village Manager.
            (5)   All required Storm Water Management documents to comply with
the provisions of Chapter 11 of this Ordinance, "Flood Plain and Storm Water
Management".
            (6)   A description of the method of extending off-site utility
lines and streets, as required.
            (7)   A description of the method of complying with the Western
Springs school-park donation requirements, section
10-10-14 of this chapter.
            (8)   A description of the method of access of construction
equipment to the site, including the use of any construction easements across
adjacent property.
            (9)   A general description of the erosion control and soil
conservation measures to be undertaken.
            (10)   Any additional information, requested by the plan commission
or the village board for the proper consideration of the proposed subdivision.
   E.   Final Engineering Drawings: After the approval of the preliminary plat,
the subdivider shall submit to the village all required final engineering
plans, drawings, calculations, and details for all required improvements, along
with all required fees. The village manager shall forward said material to the
village engineer for review and approval.
      1.   Preparation Of Plans:
         a.   All plans and specifications shall show all required land
improvements listed in this chapter, and shall be prepared in conformance with,
all applicable ordinances of the village, other agency regulations and with the
engineering specifications listed in section
10-10-16 of this chapter.
            (1)   All plans and specifications shall bear the seal of a
registered Illinois professional engineer, along with his signed statement that
such plans and specifications have been prepared in compliance with the village
ordinances and with good engineering practice.
            (2)   Said plans shall be drawn to a minimum scale of one inch
equals fifty feet (1" = 50') horizontal and one inch equals five feet (1" = 5')
vertical. The plans shall show profiles of all utility and street improvements,
with elevations referred to United States geological survey datum.
         b.   In addition to all other required plans and drawings, a specific
storm water management plan shall be submitted containing all required storm
water management documents required to comply with the provision of chapter 11
of this ordinance.
         c.   In addition to all other required plans and drawings, a specific
soil erosion control plan shall be submitted, detailing the exact procedures to
be undertaken to control erosion during construction and grading in the
subdivision, in accordance with the provisions of section
10-10-18 of this chapter.
         d.   A plan indicating changes in topographic and drainage
characteristics between the existing site and the proposed development shall be
prepared at the same scale as the final plat.
      2.   Review By The Village Engineer: The village engineer shall review
all engineering drawings in order to determine whether such drawings are
consistent with the approved preliminary plat and whether they comply with the
requirements contained herein and in the other ordinances of the village. He
shall report his review to the plan commission and the village board. In the
event that the plans, details, or specifications do not so conform or comply,
the village engineer shall notify the subdivider, plan commission, and village
board of the specific manner in which they do not so conform or comply.
      3.   No Action By The Plan Commission Without Compliance: The plan
commission shall not act upon the final plat until the engineering drawings
have been reviewed by the village engineer and a report of compliance or
noncompliance has been received by the plan commission. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-
1992)
   F.   Final Plat: No person shall subdivide or develop any parcel of land
until a final plat shall have been reviewed by the plan commission for its
compliance with the approved preliminary plat, and has been reviewed and
approved by the village board, as set forth below, except for plats of
consolidation which shall be approved administratively in accordance with
section
10-10-21 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-2267, 10-27-2003)
      1.   Procedure:
         a.   Filing Of The Final Plat:
            (1)   After the village engineer has reviewed and approved the
final engineering plans, the subdivider shall submit to the village board
twenty five (25) copies of the final plat, along with any required filing fee.
The village board shall refer the final plat to the plan commission for its
review and recommendation.
            (2)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary
plat as approved.
            (3)   If desired by the subdivider and as allowed by the village
board, the final plat may be submitted in stages, with the separate final plats
covering portions of the approved preliminary plat, provided that each final
plat conforms to all of the regulations of this ordinance.
         b.   Actions By The Plan Commission: Within sixty (60) days after its
meeting to review the final plat, the plan commission shall determine if the
final plat is in substantial conformance with the approved preliminary plat. If
the commission determines that it is in substantial conformance, the chairman
shall affix his signature to the final plat. If the commission determines that
the final plat is not in substantial conformance with the approved preliminary
plat, the commission shall set forth its findings in its own records and shall
forward a copy to the subdivider and to the village board.
         c.   Action By The Village Board: Within sixty (60) days after
receiving the plan commission's report on the final plat, the village board
shall approve or deny the final plat. If the village board approves the final
plat, it shall authorize the village president to affix his signature to the
plat. If the village board disapproves the final plat, it shall set forth its
reasons in its records and shall forward a copy to the subdivider and to the
plan commission.
         d.   Recording Of The Plat: Upon approval by the village board, the
subdivider shall collect the other necessary signatures, and the village clerk
shall record the plat with the county recorder of deeds at the subdivider's
expense. The subdivider shall provide copies and reproductions of plans and
drawings as requested by the village for recording and maintenance of public
records.
      2.   Final Plat Form And Content:
         a.   Final Plat Form: The final plat shall be drawn in waterproof
black (india) ink on tracing cloth, or their equivalents. Permitted page sizes
shall be thirty six inches by thirty inches (36" x 30") or thirty inches by
thirty inches (30" x 30"), and no other sizes shall be accepted. The scale
shall be one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger. Variation in
scale may be allowed when determined by the village engineer to be necessary
for a proper exhibit of the subdivision. When more than one sheet is used for
any plat, they shall be numbered consecutively, and each sheet shall contain a
notation showing the whole number of sheets in the set of maps, and its
relation to the other sheets (e.g., sheet 1 of 3 sheets). Linear dimensions
shall be given in feet and decimals thereof.
         b.   Final Plat Content: The final plat shall show on the face
thereof:
            (1)   The name of the subdivision.
            (2)   The location and position of the subdivision indicated in
each of the following ways:
               (A)   By quarter-quarter section, section, township, range,
meridian, county, and state.
               (B)   By distances and bearings from true north or angles with
reference to a corner or corners established in the United States public land
survey.
               (C)   By a written legal description of the exterior boundaries
of the land as surveyed and subdivided.
            (3)   The top of the plat to be oriented north, and the plat to
contain a north arrow.
            (4)   A graphic scale.
            (5)   The date of preparation.
            (6)   The description and location of all survey monuments.
            (7)   Survey data sufficient to reproduce any line or reestablish
any monument in the subdivision.
            (8)   A graphic presentation of all streets, alleys, blocks,
parcels, and public grounds into which the land is subdivided and of all
easements and rights of way.
            (9)   The length of boundary lines of all streets, alleys, blocks,
lots, parcels, public grounds, easements and rights of way or enough
information so that the length of these lines can be derived by simple
calculation. Where a boundary line is an arc of a circle, the radius and length
of the arc shall be shown.
            (10)   The width of all streets, easements, and rights of way.
            (11)   A graphic presentation of the minimum building setback lines
of all lots and parcels, and a notation of the distance between such lines and
the street right of way lines.
            (12)   The area of each lot or parcel.
            (13)   Consecutive letters on all blocks and consecutive numbers on
all lots throughout the plat.
            (14)   The name of each street, as approved by the village board,
printed on the graphic representation of each street, and an appropriate label
designating all other easements, rights of way, setback lines, dedications, and
reservations (e.g., "Dedicated for Park Purposes" or "Reserved for Public
School Site").
            (15)   The abutting street lines of all adjoining subdivisions,
shown in their correct location by broken lines.
            (16)   The water elevation of adjoining lakes or streams at the
date of survey and a graphic representation, as well as a notation of, the high
water marks of such lakes or streams; if any portion of the land within a
subdivision shown on any final plat is subject to flood hazard by stormwaters,
such fact and portion of land so affected shall be clearly shown on the final
plat by a prominent note on each sheet of the final plat whereon any such
portion shall be shown. The plat shall show the limits of the special flood
hazard area and the floodway along with the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
flood protection elevation (FPE).
            (17)   Covenants and restrictions. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
            (18)   Utility easement grants, sidewalk easement grants,
stormwater drainage utility easements.
            (19)   All acknowledgments, certifications and statements required
by state law, including the Illinois plat act 1 .
         c.   Other Information: The following information security and
assurances shall be submitted along with the final plat:
            (1)   Performance Bond: Performance bond or other securities in
conformance with the requirements of section
10-10-19 of this chapter.
            (2)   Cash Or Land Dedication: Cash or irrevocable offers to
dedicated land in conformance with the provisions of section
10-10-14 of this chapter.
            (3)   Certificates: The approval of the final plat shall not be
deemed completed until the required certificates, other than the village clerk
certificate, have been duly executed. Certificates to be affixed to the final
plat shall include those of:
               (A)   The owner as to the ownership of the property.
               (B)   A notarized statement indicating, to the best of the
owner's knowledge, the elementary, high school or unit school district(s) in
which each tract, parcel, lot or block lies.
               (C)   The surveyor as to compliance with municipal and state
regulations.
               (D)   The village treasurer as to unpaid special assessments.
               (E)   The plan commission chairman as to the approval of the
plan commission.
               (F)   The village engineer as to approval of the required
engineering drawings.
               (G)   The county clerk as to unpaid taxes.
               (H)   The village president and village clerk as to the approval
by the village board and acceptance of any easements rights.
               (I)   The owner's engineer and the owner as to drainage from the
subdivision.
               (J)   State of Illinois chief highway engineer when the
subdivision includes or is adjacent to a state highway or local highway
authority when property involves access to all other roadways.
               (K)   Local department of health if property is not connected to
public sewer system.
               (L)   Mortgagee's consent to all easements, dedications and
other rights granted or reserved to the village and other third parties. (Ord.
15-2794, 3-23-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205.
10-10-4: GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
The subdivision of land including the arrangement, character, extent, width,
grade, and location of all streets, alleys, crosswalks, easements, sites for
parks, playgrounds, and schools or other land to be dedicated for public use
shall conform to the comprehensive plan and official map of the village of
Western Springs. Approval of the design of a proposed subdivision shall be
considered on the basis of its relation to existing and platted streets,
reasonable circulation of traffic within the subdivision and adjacent land,
topographic conditions, runoff of stormwater, public convenience and safety,
and appropriate relation to the proposed land uses of the areas to be served.
   A.   Size And Shape Of Land To Be Subdivided:
      1.   The size and shape of the land to be subdivided shall be sufficient
and proper for land planning purposes and suitable in area and dimensions for
the uses intended.
      2.   The plans for the subdivision of the property shall incorporate
into, and be compatible with, the existing and potential uses on outlots
bracketed by the area to be subdivided.
   B.   Desirable Environment: The layout of the streets, lots, blocks,
buildings, parking lots and public lands shall create a desirable environment
for the people who shall use the proposed uses, without exercising a
detrimental influence or effect upon surrounding land uses.
   C.   Design Compatible With Natural Features:
      1.   The design of every subdivision shall be compatible with the
existing topography, drainage patterns, and other natural features on the site.
      2.   Every subdivision shall conserve isolated mature trees, wooded
areas, watercourses, scenic views, ponds, floodplain areas, historical
landmarks, and other features of the property, which, if preserved, would add
to the attractiveness and value of the subdivision, neighborhood, or the
village as a whole.
      3.   The design of the subdivision should, wherever possible, lower all
maintenance costs through a self-maintainable ecological system to conserve
materials, construction labor, construction equipment, land and environmental
values; to balance construction costs, amortization costs, operating costs,
maintenance costs and replacement costs, thereby minimizing total average
annual costs; to encourage the construction and installation of energy
efficient systems.
      4.   The design of every subdivision shall make adequate provision for
the use and maintenance of open space.
      5.   The design of every subdivision shall provide adequate acoustical
and visual privacy for incompatible adjacent uses.
   D.   Subdivision Name: The proposed name of the subdivision shall not
duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other
subdivision in the area covered by these regulations. The plan commission shall
designate the name of the subdivision with the approval of the preliminary
plat.
   E.   Lots:
      1.   Political Boundaries: Lots shall be laid out so that they do not
cross any political boundary, especially any school district boundary or the
boundaries of the village of Western Springs.
      2.   Arrangement: The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no
foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with this
ordinance and the building code and in providing driveway access to buildings
on such lots from an approved and dedicated street.
      3.   Lot Dimensions:
         a.   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of this
ordinance.
         b.   Where lots are more than double the minimum required area for the
zoning district, the plan commission may require that such lots be arranged so
as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future streets where they
would be necessary to serve such potential lots, all in compliance with these
regulations.
         c.   In general, side lot lines shall be at right angles (or radial to
curving street lines) unless a variation from this rule shall provide a better
street or lot plan.
         d.   Building setback lines shall conform to the front yard
requirements of this ordinance with corner lots observing the minimum front
yard requirements from both streets.
         e.   The depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for
business, commercial or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for
the off street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use and
development contemplated, as established elsewhere in this ordinance.
         f.   Residential lots with the rear lot line abutting an expressway,
regional arterial street, railroad right of way, or other inharmonious use
shall have a depth of twenty feet (20') in excess of that typically required by
the regulations for that district. A landscape easement shall be required on
such lots across said twenty foot (20') strip of land and shall be designated
on the final plat as follows: "This strip is reserved for landscape screening.
The placement of structures hereon or vehicular access hereacross is
prohibited". (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
         g.   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream
shall have a minimum width or depth required to provide an adequate building
site and the minimum usable area of front, side, and rear yards, as required in
this Ordinance. All usable space in a new building or that which has been added
to an existing building or in an existing building undergoing substantial
improvement located in areas outside the boundary of the SFHA or regulatory
flood plain, but within one hundred feet (100') of the SFHA boundary or within
the boundary of the 500-year flood plain, shall be elevated or floodproofed to
at least the flood protection elevation. Furthermore, buildings, with basements
to be constructed outside of the SFHA, but within one hundred feet (100') of
its boundary will require special analysis as related to hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads on the foundation and basement floor. Based upon the
hydrostatic and/or hydrodynamic analysis, floodproofing and special
construction of the basement floor and walls may be required. Floodproofing
devices shall be operational without human intervention. If electricity is
required for protection against flood damage, then a backup power source that
will activate without human intervention shall be provided. The floodproofing
shall be certified by a professional engineer. (Ord. 97-2021, 12-15-1997)
         h.   For lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream,
lot lines should be placed in the center line thereof.
      4.   Access:
         a.   All lots shall abut a publicly dedicated street.
         b.   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from regional
or community arterial streets or highways or to overcome specific disadvantages
of topography and orientation.
      5.   Drainage: Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with
the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so
as to avoid concentrations of storm drainage waters onto adjacent lots. All
drainage courses shall be protected by covenants and deed restrictions
preventing alteration, building upon, or obstructing of the drainageways.
      6.   Driveway Location:
         a.   Driveways shall be located so that there is adequate clear sight
distance onto the abutting road, avoiding locations along the inside curve or
below the crown of a hilltop on community arterial and regional arterial
streets.
         b.   The center line of any driveway shall be off-set a minimum of one
hundred fifty feet (150') from the right-of-way line of a regional arterial
street and fifty feet (50') from all other rights of way.
   F.   Blocks:
      1.   Design:
         a.   The length, width, and shape of blocks shall be determined with
due regard for the following:
            (1)   Provisions for adequate building sites suitable to the
special needs of the types of uses contemplated.
            (2)   The size requirements of lot size within the applicable
zoning district.
            (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety
of the street traffic.
         b.   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers
of lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall
be permitted in blocks adjacent to regional arterial streets, railroads,
watercourses, or other property lines of the subdivision.
         c.   No block shall exceed one thousand six hundred feet (1,600') in
length except where required by unusual topographic conditions, nor shall they
be less than four hundred feet (400') in width.
      2.   Easements In Blocks: Easements no less than ten feet (10') wide
through blocks shall be required to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities,
or pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-5: LOCATION OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS:
   A.   Conformance With Existing Ordinances: All buildings should be located
on lots in conformance with this Ordinance, the Building Code, and other rules
and regulations of the Village.
   B.   Design Criteria: The following design criteria should be incorporated
into the preliminary plat and all other site plans for residential buildings:
      1.   To the extent possible, residential buildings should have access
from local and neighborhood collector streets, as defined in Section
10-10-7 of this Chapter, and placement of residential buildings on or adjacent
to regional arterial and collector streets should be avoided.
      2.   All dwelling units should be within reasonable proximity to usable
open space areas.
      3.   Each dwelling unit should have direct access to a pedestrian
walkway.
      4.   Residential buildings should be positioned to take best advantage of
the summer winds and winter sun and to minimize summer solar heat and the
prevailing winter winds.
      5.   Placement of the garages should not be visually disruptive, yet be
within close proximity to each dwelling unit for which they are intended.
      6.   Reasonable visual and acoustical privacy should be provided for the
residents in each dwelling unit, especially entrances, patios and balconies,
with no unrestricted views into any principal room by the occupancy of another
building.
      7.   The location of the proposed buildings and structures should not
adversely affect adjacent land uses.
      8.   Paved access should be available for fire, ambulance and police
vehicles to within one hundred feet (100') of the principal entrances of
buildings. Closer access, for infrequent use, may be across unpaved areas.
      9.   Postal boxes, street identification signs and other street fixtures
should be compatible in design with the architectural character of the nearby
buildings.
      10.   Garbage containers and utility pads should be screened from view.
      11.   Parking shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 4 of this ordinance. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-6: PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION SYSTEM:
Subdivisions shall provide a concrete pedestrian circulation system to connect
individual dwelling units with parking and service areas, to connect
neighboring dwelling units, and to connect groups of dwelling units with
schools, parks, commercial facilities, and other community facilities. In
general, concrete public sidewalks will be provided in street rights of way,
and other walkways and bikeways may be located elsewhere. As an alternative to
concrete sidewalks, sidewalks installed in the public right of way may be
constructed of brick pavers or similar materials when authorized by the village
board as part of a planned development. The plan commission shall recommend and
the village board shall approve the type of pedestrian circulation system and
the construction materials (concrete or brick pavers or similar materials)
appropriate for the subdivision. The system shall be constructed in accordance
with the provisions of section
10-10-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 04-2304, 6-28-2004)
10-10-7: STREETS:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   The subdivision shall have adequate off site access providing
sufficient capacity to handle all traffic which can be reasonably expected to
be generated for the land uses to be located in the subdivision.
      2.   All streets in the subdivision shall be properly integrated with the
existing and proposed street system as established on the official map and
comprehensive plan of the village.
      3.   Major elements of the street system should be used to help define
and buffer different land use areas, enhancing their identity and cohesiveness.
      4.   To the extent feasible, the lineal length of streets, the number of
street intersections, and the paved area within intersections should be
minimized.
      5.   The design of the street system of the subdivision shall be in
accordance with table 10-1, minimum standards for street design and
construction shall be in accordance with the engineering specifications of
section
10-10-16 of this chapter.
      6.   Adequate drainage structures shall be provided. The design,
installation, and construction of drainage structures shall comply with
specifications of section
10-10-16 of this chapter and with chapter 11, "Floodplain And Storm Water
Management", of this ordinance.
   TABLE 10-1
   MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STREET DESIGN
                      Radius Of                           Minimum    Minimum  Tangent
       Right Pavement Horizontal Minimum/ Radius Of Curb  Sight      Length   Between
Street Of    Width*   Curves     Maximum  Returns At      Clear      Of       Horizontal
Type   Way   (Ft.)    Of Center  Gradient Intersection+++ Distance## Vertical Reverse
       (Ft.)          Line       (%)      (Ft.)           (Ft.)      Curves++ Curves
                      (Ft.)                                          (Ft.)    (Ft.)
                           Radius Of                           Minimum    Minimum  Tangent
            Right Pavement Horizontal Minimum/ Radius Of Curb  Sight      Length   Between
Street Type Of    Width*   Curves     Maximum  Returns At      Clear      Of       Horizontal
            Way   (Ft.)    Of Center  Gradient Intersection+++ Distance## Vertical Reverse
            (Ft.)          Line       (%)      (Ft.)           (Ft.)      Curves++ Curves
                           (Ft.)                                          (Ft.)    (Ft.)
Regional
Arterial    100** 48       500        .5/5     45              500        200      200
Community
Arterial
Residential 80    36       300        .5/5     35              400        200      200
Indst./Com. 100   48       500        .5/2     45              500        200      200
Neighborhood
Arterial
Residential 70*** 36***    150        .5/6     35              300        100      100
Indst./Com. 80    36       300        .5/2     45              500        200      200
Local
Residential 66+   27       150        .5/6     25              200        100      ---
Indst./Com. 80    36       300        .5/2     45              500        200      200
Cul-De-Sac#
Residential 66+/  27/75    150        .5/6     25              200        100      ---
            100
Indst./Com. 80/   36/110   300        .5/2     45              500        200      200
            140
 
Note:
*   Face of curb to face of curb.
**   Can also be 80 feet with two 10 foot easements on both sides of the right
of way for utility lines, drainage, and landscaping purposes.
***   Can be 60 feet of right of way and 27 feet of pavement width, when there
will never be any lots fronting on the street.
#   The first dimension of the right of way and pavement width standards refers
to the neck of the cul-de-sac; the second to the terminals or "bulb" of the
cul-de-sac.
##   Along horizontal and vertical curves.
+   Can be reduced to 60 feet with pedestrian walkway system separated from the
street right of way laid out throughout the subdivision or planned development.
++   Vertical curves shall not be used in sags and crests where the algebraic
difference in gradients recommended by the Village Engineer and approved by the
Village Board. Under unusual topographic or site conditions, a longer radius
may be required.
<   On-street parking not allowed.
      7.   All pavements shall be designed in accordance with the following
references as they apply:
         a.   "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", IDOT,
latest edition.
         b.   "Manual of Structural Design of Portland Cement Concrete
Pavement", IDOT, latest edition.
         c.   "Manual for Instructions for the Structural Design of Flexible
Pavements on Projects Involving MFT, FAS and FAUS Funds", IDOT, latest edition.
         d.   "Design Manual", IDOT, latest edition.
         e.   "Bureau of Local Roads - Administrative Policies", IDOT, latest
edition.
      8.   Concrete curbs and gutters (type B.6-12) shall be required in all
subdivisions.
   B.   Types And Specifications:
      1.   Types: The functional definitions of the street classification
system for the Village of Western Springs are:
         a.   Regional Arterial Street: A regional arterial is intended to
serve all types of trips, with a significant proportion representing vehicle
trips destined beyond the boundaries of the community or neighboring
communities. The section of the regional arterial within the community should
serve a significant portion of trips generated by land uses within the
community, but access should be carefully controlled. This type of street has
regional importance because of its alignment, continuity, capacity, and its
connections with other regional traffic carriers. Regional arterial streets in
urbanized areas can be expected to carry in excess of sixteen thousand (16,000)
vehicles per day and require more than one lane in each direction.
         b.   Community Arterial Street: A community arterial is intended to
serve all types of vehicle trips with more emphasis on trips within and between
the community and adjacent communities than trips made beyond the community
boundaries. This type of street should not serve trips longer than five miles,
but is important to the community in terms of traffic capacity and service to
abutting land uses. The range of traffic volumes that can be expected on
community arterial streets will vary significantly, depending upon the density
of development, spacing of regional arterial routes, and the continuity of the
street. These volumes will likely vary between six thousand (6,000) and fifteen
thousand (15,000) vehicles and will require four (4) lanes in some cases.
         c.   Neighborhood Arterial Street: A neighborhood community arterial
street is intended to serve only vehicle trips generated to and from the
subareas (neighborhoods) within the community that it serves. The function of
this type of street is to collect and distribute traffic between the
neighborhoods and community and regional arterial streets. Neighborhood
community arterial streets should not serve through traffic and should not have
continuity beyond one and one-half (11/2) miles. These streets typically carry
between two thousand (2,000) and five thousand (5,000) vehicles per day and
require only one lane in each direction.
         d.   Local Street: A local street is intended to serve only those
vehicle trips generated by land uses abutting the street. The function of this
type of street is to provide access to and from individual properties within a
neighborhood. Local streets should be designed to discourage through traffic.
         e.   Cul-De-Sacs: This is a short street ending in a turnaround
designed and intended as a permanent terminus. Such streets should be used to
discourage through traffic and to increase privacy. Cul-de-sacs should
intersect with neighborhood collector streets, not with local streets and other
cul-de- sacs, and not with arterial streets. Cul-de-sacs in residential areas
should be no longer than five hundred feet (500'). Wherever possible, islands
in the center of the bulb of the cul-de-sac should be designed, constructed,
and landscaped.
      2.   Design Criteria: In order to provide for roads of suitable location,
width, and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford
satisfactory access to police, firefighting, snow removal, sanitation and road
maintenance equipment, and to coordinate roads so as to compose a convenient
system and to avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the following
design standards for streets are hereby required. All pavements shall be
designed in accordance with the following references as they apply:
         a.   "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", IDOT,
latest edition.
         b.   "Manual of Structural Design of Portland Cement Concrete
Pavement", IDOT, latest edition.
         c.   "Manual for Instructions for the Structural Design of Flexible
Pavements on Projects Involving MFT, FAS and FAUS Funds", IDOT, latest edition.
         d.   "Design Manual", IDOT, latest edition.
         e.   "Bureau of Local Roads - Administrative Policies", IDOT, latest
edition.
   C.   Design Layout:
      1.   General Concepts:
         a.   All streets shall be laid out in conformance with the Official
Map and the Comprehensive Plan for the Village. Where such is not shown on the
Official Map and Comprehensive Plan, the arrangement of streets within a
subdivision shall either:
            (1)   Provide for the continuation or projection of existing
regional arterial or community arterial streets in adjacent areas; or
            (2)   Conform to a plan for the area or neighborhood recommended by
the Plan Commission and approved by the Village Board to meet a particular
situation where topographical or other conditions make continuance or
conformance to existing streets impracticable.
         b.   All streets shall be located in relation to existing topographic
conditions, to public convenience and safety, and to efficient drainage and
utility systems.
         c.   All streets shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industrial business districts, school, churches and shopping
centers; to population densities, and to the pattern of existing and proposed
land uses.
      2.   Residential Streets:
         a.   A residential area should be conveniently accessible from
arterial streets.
         b.   Residential streets shall provide safe and convenient access to
housing.
         c.   Local streets shall be so laid out as to discourage high speed or
through traffic, but the design shall be logical and comprehensible to a
motorist or a pedestrian attempting to travel to and through the subdivision.
         d.   Curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs, or U-shaped streets shall be
used where such will result in a more desirable layout, or will avoid
conformity of lot appearance.
         e.   Layouts of residential areas should be planned to avoid future
need to widen any local street or neighborhood collector street.
         f.   Local streets and cul-de-sacs should intersect only with
neighborhood collector and community arterial streets, unless the physical
features of the site do not allow for such a design.
      3.   Nonresidential Streets:
         a.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck
traffic, shall not normally be extended through adjacent existing or potential
residential areas.
         b.   The streets and other accessways shall be planned in connection
with the grouping of buildings, location of rail facilities, and the provision
of alleys, truck loading and maneuvering areas, and walks and parking areas, so
as to minimize conflict of movement between the various types of traffic,
including pedestrian.
         c.   Streets extending parallel or approximately parallel to a
railroad right of way should:
            (1)   Be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure suitable
depth for commercial or industrial sites, and
            (2)   Be at a distance at least one hundred fifty feet (150') from
the railroad right of way when intersecting a street which crosses the railroad
at grade, or be at such other distance as shall be necessary, when intersecting
a street which will be grade separated when crossing the railroad.
      4.   Half Streets: Half streets shall not be permitted except to complete
an existing half street which is dedicated and accepted, or to conform to the
Official Map and Comprehensive Plan of the Village of Western Springs.
      5.   Other Design Criteria:
         a.   Street jogs with center line off-sets of less than three hundred
feet (300') shall be avoided.
         b.   Tangents shall be used between reverse curves on all regional
arterial streets and community arterial streets.
         c.   Vertical alignment of streets should assure that inclines
generally can be negotiated during adverse weather conditions and sight
distances are adequate for safety.
         d.   Extensions of roads shall be provided into all adjacent property
as needed. When no such extensions are provided, the extensions of appropriate
easements to the boundary of the subdivision for pedestrian traffic, drainage
facilities and utility lines shall be required.
         e.   The terminus of a cul-de-sac should not be lower than the neck of
the cul-de-sac.
         f.   Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow road or when the
Official Map or Comprehensive Plan indicates that a road should be realigned or
widened which would require use of some of the land in the subdivision, such
land shall be reserved and dedicated.
   D.   Intersections:
      1.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, but in no case shall any intersection be less than seventy
five degrees (75o). An oblique street should be curved approaching an
intersection and should be approximately at right angles for at least one
hundred feet (100') therefrom.
      2.   Intersections on the inside of a curve, on a hilltop, or a point
slightly below a hilltop shall be avoided.
      3.   An intersection of more than two (2) streets shall not be permitted.
      4.   Residential local streets and cul-de-sacs should intersect only with
neighborhood collector and community arterial streets, not with other
residential local streets and cul-de- sacs, and not with regional arterial
streets.
      5.   Center lines of streets at intersections should align or be off-set
therefrom by a minimum of three hundred feet (300').
      6.   In nonresidential areas and along regional arterial streets,
proposed new intersections shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any
intersections on the opposite side of such street.
      7.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the subdivider shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including
trees) in connection with the grading of the public right of way to the extent
deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
      8.   The pavement cross slopes on street and intersection rights of way
shall be three percent (3.0%) or less.
      9.   Intersections along regional arterial streets shall be at least
three hundred feet (300') apart.
   E.   Other Requirements:
      1.   Reserve Strips: Reserve ("spite" or "devil") strips controlling
access to streets shall not be permitted. Streets roughly parallel to the
boundary line of the subdivision shall be located either on that boundary line
or not less than one lot depth from said boundary line. All streets intended to
provide the subdivision and adjacent parcels of property with means of ingress
and egress shall extend to the boundary line of the subdivision.
      2.   Road Names: The plan commission shall review and the village board
shall approve all street names, consulting with the postmaster and the chief of
the fire department. Names shall be sufficiently different in sound and in
spelling from other road names in the village so as not to cause confusion. A
street which is or is planned as a continuation of an existing street shall
bear the same name. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-8: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Utility Easements, Sidewalk Easements And Drainage Easements: Easements
for utility services, sidewalks and stormwater drainage facilities shall be
provided by the property owner for the benefit of the village, the county, the
state, and all utility companies and other appropriate governmental entities,
totaling not less than ten feet (10') in width or greater or as required by the
utility companies, the village, the county, the state or other appropriate
governmental entities, adjacent to the rear of each lot and adjacent to side
lot lines where necessary, to provide for proper continuity of utility lines,
sidewalks and stormwater drainage facilities from lot to lot and from block to
block. In appropriate cases, the above easement areas may be set at not less
than five feet (5') wide, as determined by the village engineer, in his/her
sole discretion.
   B.   Drainage Easements: Property that is subject to the watershed
management ordinance regulations of the metropolitan water reclamation district
of Greater Chicago and established lakes, streams, drainageways and channels
shall be protected by drainage easements in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 11, "Floodplain And Stormwater Management", of this ordinance. (Ord.
15-2794, 3-23-2015)
10-10-9: SEWER AND WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Treatment Capacity And Sanitary Sewers:
      1.   Any proposed subdivision within the incorporated areas of the
village shall be serviced with a sanitary effluent treatment plant of
sufficient capacity to handle the effluent discharges of the proposed
subdivision, before such subdivision is approved.
      2.   Sanitary sewer lines of a type and size specified in section
10-10-16 of this chapter shall be installed in all subdivisions in the
incorporated areas of the village and in all subdivisions in the unincorporated
areas around the village which are within two hundred fifty feet (250') of a
community sewer line.
      3.   Sanitary sewers shall be located in public rights of way or in
easements.
   B.   Storm Sewers And Detention Facilities: A specific stormwater management
plan including an adequate stormwater drainage and detention system, shall be
submitted containing all required stormwater management documents required to
comply with the provision of chapter 11, "Floodplain And Stormwater
Management", of this ordinance.
   C.   Water Supply:
      1.   Any proposed subdivision within the incorporated areas of the
village shall be serviced with a water supply system built to the standards of
section
10-10-16 of this chapter.
      2.   Water lines of a type and size specified in section
10-10-16 of this chapter shall be installed in all subdivisions in the
incorporated areas of the village and in all subdivisions in the unincorporated
areas around the village which are within two hundred fifty feet (250') of a
water main.
      3.   Every subdivision water distribution system shall have adequate pipe
sizes, water pressure, supply and sufficient fire hydrants to provide fire
protection. Should existing public facilities be inadequate, the subdivider
shall provide at his expense all facilities including wells, booster pumps,
water storage, feeder lines and the like to meet required fire flows. (Ord. 92-
1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-10: STREET LIGHTING:
A street lighting system shall be installed in all subdivisions. The design of
such system shall be based on the latest edition of the "American National
Practice For Roadway Lighting", and shall be subject to village review and
approval. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-11: STREET SIGNS:
   A.   The subdivider shall erect an approved street sign at each street
intersection, which will indicate the names of the streets as shown on the
final plat, together with the proper numbering according to the established
house numbering system of the village.
   B.   The street signs shall be constructed according to the standards in
section
10-10-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-12: UTILITIES; TELEPHONE, ELECTRIC AND GAS:
   A.   All utility distribution lines for telephone, electric, and gas service
in the subdivision shall be placed underground, across back yards when
possible, entirely throughout a subdivided area. Installation of such
facilities shall be made in compliance with the applicable orders, rules, and
regulations of the Illinois commerce commission now or hereafter effective and
the subdivider shall be responsible for compliance with the applicable orders,
rules, and regulations of the Illinois commerce commission now or hereafter
effective and filed with said commission pursuant to the Illinois public
utilities act, for any public utility whose service will be required for the
subdivision with respect to the provisions of such facilities.
   B.   Underground telephone, electric and gas service shall be placed within
easements or dedicated public ways in a manner that will not conflict with
other underground services. Further, all transformer boxes shall be located so
as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public. The utility lines shall be
parallel to and not less than twelve inches (12") from the property line.
Corner markers as required in section
10-10-13 of this chapter shall not be disturbed by the installation of utility
lines. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-13: MONUMENTS AND MARKERS:
   A.   Preservation Of Existing Monuments: All United States, State, County,
or other official benchmarks, monuments, or triangulation stations in or
adjacent to the subdivision shall be preserved. When a proposed improvement in
a subdivision makes necessary the moving of benchmarks, monuments, or stations,
the authority having jurisdiction shall be notified and given sufficient time
to take appropriate action.
   B.   Placement Of New Monuments: Monuments shall be placed at all corners,
at each end of all curves, at the point where a curve changes its radius, at
all angle points in any line and at all angle points along a meander line, the
points to be not less than twenty feet (20') back from the normal water
elevation of a lake or from the bank of a stream. When such corners or points
fall within a street, or proposed future street, the monuments shall be placed
in the right-of-way line of the street.
   C.   Monument Materials: Permanent monuments shall be galvanized iron pipe
not less than three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and not less than thirty
six inches (36") in length. In no case shall thin-wall pipe or electrical
conduit be permitted. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-14: DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS AND SCHOOL SITES OR PAYMENTS OF FEES IN LIEU
THEREOF:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or of a final plat of
a planned development, the Village shall require land for park and recreational
purposes and land for school sites, or cash contributions in lieu of land, or a
combination of both, at the option of the Village, be provided to serve said
needs specifically and uniquely attributable to the residents of the
subdivision or planned development. This land or cash or combination thereof
shall be provided in accordance with the following criteria and formula:
   A.   Criteria For Park And Recreational Land Requirements:
      1.   Land Requirement And Population Ratio: The amount of land required
for dedication for park and recreational purposes shall be a direct function of
the ultimate population density of a proposed development. The total
requirement shall be seven (7.0) acres per land per one thousand (1,000) of
ultimate population computed in accordance with the Table of Estimated Ultimate
Population Per Dwelling Unit, contained herein.
      2.   Location: The location and configuration of the site to be dedicated
shall be determined by the Village Board upon recommendation of the Plan
Commission and in consultation with the Park District, which shall take into
the account the Comprehensive Plan of the Village, the suitability of the site
for park purposes or development, its relationship to population
concentrations, and its proximity to other park or recreational lands.
      3.   Minimum Size: The minimum size of any land to be dedicated for park
and recreational purposes shall be no less than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet, one dimension of which cannot be less than one hundred feet (100'),
except that the Plan Commission may recommend and the Village Board may approve
dedications of a smaller size, when required by the specific plans of the
development and when the usefulness of the smaller area for park and
recreational purposes is demonstrated.
      4.   Use Of Detention Areas For Required Dedications: Detention areas for
storm water control shall not qualify as land for park and recreational
purposes, unless the use of the property for such purposes is clearly
demonstrated.
      5.   Private Open Spaces And Recreational Areas: No more than forty
percent (40%) of the land required for park and recreational purposes shall be
privately owned and maintained. The Village shall approve the detailed plans
for all improvements for such park and recreational land which is privately
owned and maintained, and guarantees of the permanency of the use and
maintenance of such privately owned and maintained park and recreational open
space, satisfactory to and enforceable by the Village shall be entered into by
the subdivider or developer, which guarantees may include covenants and/or
express provisions in the articles of condominium ownership, or constitution
and bylaws of a homeowners' association.
   B.   Criteria For School Site Dedication:
      1.   Land Requirement And Population Ratio: The amount of land required
to be dedicated for school sites shall be a direct function of the ultimate
number of students anticipated to be generated by a proposed development. The
land dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining the ratio of: 1)
estimated children to be served in each such school classification, computed in
accordance with the Table of Estimate Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit,
contained herein, over the 2) maximum recommended number of students to be
served in each such school classification as stated herein, and then applying
such ratio to the 3) said minimum recommended number of acres for a school site
of each such school classification as stated herein. The product thereof shall
be the acres of land deemed needed to have sufficient land for school sites to
serve the estimate increased children in each such school classification.
      2.   School Classifications And Size Of School Sites: School
classifications and size of school sites within the Village shall be determined
in accordance with the following criteria:
 
                                   Maximum Number   Minimum Number
School Classification              Of Students In   Of Acres Of Land
By Grades                          Each Such School For Each School
                                   Classification   Site Of Such
                                                    Classification
Elementary schools,
grades - kindergarten              600 students     11 acres
thru 5th
Junior high schools,               900 students     19 acres
grades 6th thru 8th
Combined schools,
grades kindergarten                1,500 students   25 acres
thru 8th
High schools, grades 9th thru 12th 2,300 students   48 acres
 
      3.   Location: The Comprehensive Plan of the Village and/or the standards
adopted by the affected school districts shall be used as a guideline in
locating school sites.
   C.   Criteria For Requiring A Contribution In Lieu Of Park And School Sites:
Where the development is small and the resulting land dedication is too small
to be practical or when the available land is inappropriate for park and
recreational purposes or a school site, as determined by the Village Board, the
subdivider or developer shall pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land
required.
      1.   Cash Contribution In Lieu Of Park And Recreational Land Dedications:
The cash contributions in lieu of park and recreational land dedications shall
be held in trust by the Village, or other public body designated by the
Village, solely for the acquisition of park and recreational land, which will
be available to serve the immediate or future needs of the residents of that
subdivision or development or for the improvement of any existing local park
and recreational land that already services such needs.
      2.   Cash Contribution In Lieu Of School Site Dedications: The cash
contributions in lieu of school site dedications shall be held in trust by
Village, or other public body designated by the Village, solely for use in the
acquisition of land for a school site to serve the immediate or future needs of
students from that subdivision or development or for the improvement of any
existing school site that already serves such needs.
      3.   Refund Of Cash Contribution: If any portion of a cash contribution
in lieu of park and recreational land dedication, or cash contribution in lieu
of school site dedication is not expended for the purposes set forth herein
seven (7) years from the date of receipt, it shall be refunded to the
subdivider or developer who made such contribution, along with any accrued
interest earned on such funds.
      4.   Fair Market Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the "fair market value" of the acres of undeveloped land in the area
to be improved as specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as
park and recreational and school sites. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
         a.   It has been determined that the present "fair market value" of
such undeveloped land in and surrounding the Village to be improved as
specified herein, is one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per acre, and
such figure shall be used in making any calculation herein, unless the
subdivider or developer and affected school district or park district files a
written objection thereto. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992; amd. Ord. 99-2076, 2-22-
1999)
         b.   In the event of any objection to the "fair market value"
specified in subsection B4a of this Section, the objecting party shall submit
an appraisal showing the "fair market value" of said undeveloped land in the
area of the proposed development. The final determination of said "fair market
value" per acre of said undeveloped land shall be made by the Village Board
based upon such information submitted by the objecting party, along with any
responses thereto by the subdivider or developer, or by the affected school
district or park district.
      5.   Criteria For Requiring Dedication And A Fee: A combination of land
dedication and a contribution in lieu of land shall be required, when:
         a.   The subdivision or development does not have sufficient or
adequate land to meet the dedication requirements hereunder. That portion of
the land within the subdivision or development which is adequate or sufficient
for the park or school location shall be dedicated as a site as aforesaid, and
a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any additional land
that would have been required to be dedicated.
         b.   A major part of the local park or recreational site or school
site has already been acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from
the development to complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required
by dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required.
      6.   Criteria For A Fully Developed Park: A fully developed park,
including appropriate lighting, grading, landscaping and recreational
equipment, may be required when the availability of land for park land is
limited and where the recreational needs of the residents of the subdivision
can be satisfied with a smaller but fully developed park with a more intensive
activity level. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
   D.   Density Formula: The Table of Estimated Ultimate Population Per
Dwelling Unit, Children Per Unit copyright date 1996 prepared by Illinois
School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants Naperville,
Illinois, (a copy of which Table has been placed on file in the office of the
Village Manager and by reference is hereby made a part hereof), is generally
indicative of current and short range projected trends in family size for new
construction, and shall be used in calculating the amount of required
dedication of acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof, unless a
written objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer. (Ord. 99-
2076, 2-22-1999)
   E.   Reservation Of Additional Land: Where the Comprehensive Plan or
standards of the Village call for a larger amount of park and recreational land
or school sites in a particular subdivision or development than the subdivider
or developer is required to dedicate the land needed in excess of required
dedication shall be reserved for subsequent purchase by the Village or other
public body designated by the Village provided that such acquisition is started
within one year from the date of approval of the final plat.
   F.   Combining With Adjoining Developments: Park or recreational land
dedications and school site dedications may be combined with dedications from
adjoining subdivisions and developments in order to produce usable recreational
areas or school sites without hardship on a particular developer.
   G.   Topography And Grading: The slope, topography and geology of the
dedicated site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended
purposes. Grading on sites for park and recreational uses shall not differ
greatly from surrounding land.
   H.   Improved Sites: All sites shall have a portion of their frontage
improved with water and sanitary utility lines, electrical service, and fully
improved streets.
   I.   Dedication Required As Part Of Annexation Agreement Or Special Use
Permit: The dedications of land or cash contributions in lieu thereof required
by this Ordinance shall also be required as a condition to the annexation of
any land to the Village and/or the issuance of any conditional use permit.
Dedications of land or cash in lieu thereof as specified in any annexation
agreement or special use permit which are in substantial conformance with the
requirements of this Ordinance shall be deemed to have fulfilled the dedication
requirements of this Ordinance.
   J.   Dedication At Time Of Approval Of Final Plat: Approval of any final
plan of subdivision or any final planned unit development plat may be
conditioned upon the dedication of land or cash donations in lieu thereof as
required by this Ordinance. Dedications of such land or cash in lieu thereof
may be made at such other time as is specifically approved by the Village
Board.
   K.   On-Site Storage: No storage of any equipment and/or materials,
including spoil materials or top soil, shall be permitted on any land
designated for park and recreational use or for school sites. (Ord. 92-1855,
12-14-1992)
10-10-15: MAILBOXES:
Mailboxes shall be installed at such locations as recommended by the Plan
Commission and approved by the Village Board, in conformance with the standards
of the United States Postal Service. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-16: ENGINEERING SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Installation Of Improvements: The owner or subdivider shall install
storm and sanitary sewers, water supply systems, street grading and pavement,
alleys, cross-walkways, public utilities, street lighting, and street signs in
accordance with applicable ordinances and standards of construction of the
Village.
   B.   Certification By Engineer: No subdivision of land shall be approved
without receiving a statement signed by the Village Engineer, certifying that
the improvements described in the subdivider's plans and specifications
together with agreements, meet the minimum requirements of all ordinances by
the Village.
   C.   Compliance With Specifications: The construction of improvements
required by those regulations shall be in accordance with and to the
specifications set forth in the following, as applicable:
      1.   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, IDOT,
current edition;
      2.   Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois, Illinois Society of Professional Engineers, et al., current edition;
      3.   Design Manual and Highway Standards, IDOT, Division of Highways,
current edition;
      4.   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions, IDOT,
July 1, 1988;
      5.   Special Provisions and Specifications, IDOT, Division of Local Roads
and Streets;
      6.   Interim Special Provisions, adopted subsequent to issuance of
Supplemental Specifications and mimeographed Special Provisions booklet;
      7.   Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways,
adopted by IDOT;
      8.   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items, current edition.
   D.   Storm Water Control Facilities: Storm water control facilities shall be
provided in conformance with Chapter 11 of this Ordinance, Flood Plain and
Storm Water Management, and in accordance with:
      1.   Illinois Department of Transportation Division of Highways (IDOT)
Design Manual and Highway Standards, current edition;
      2.   IDOT Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions.
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-17: OTHER CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Soil Investigations:
      1.   If the subdivision contains questionable soil and in the opinion of
the Village Engineer soil investigations, borings or other soil tests are
necessary to determine the nature and extent of such questionable material, the
owner, subdivider or developer shall retain or cause to be retained the
services of a competent testing laboratory to perform the needed
investigations.
      2.   Copies of the completed reports prepared by the testing laboratory
shall be filed with the Village Engineer.
      3.   The Village Engineer shall have no liability for costs connected
with the test, borings, or interpretations of results of such work.
   B.   Blasting: No blasting shall take place in connection with any work in a
subdivision until appropriate Village authorities have been notified and
compliance with the applicable Village ordinances has occurred.
   C.   Inspection:
      1.   All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of
this Ordinance shall be inspected during the course of construction by the
Village Engineer or a duly designated deputy.
      2.   During the course of construction of the improvements, the
subdivider shall be required to notify the Village Engineer forty eight (48)
hours before the inspection of all utilities.
      3.   The subdivider shall pay the cost of all inspection services to the
Village Clerk. The fee shall be established by the Village, based on current
rates and standard engineering practice.
      4.   The general inspection periods or visits by the Village Engineer
shall be as follows:
Construction Operation Degree Of Inspection Remarks
Construction Operation               Degree Of Inspection Remarks
                                     Full-time
Sanitary sewers                      inspection, or as    Underground
                                     required by Village
                                     Full-time
Storm sewers and culverts            inspection, or as    Underground
                                     required by Village
                                     Full-time
Water mains                          inspection, or as    Underground
                                     required by Village
Roadway system                                            
   Sub-base                       Daily spot           Final approval
                                     inspection           required before base
   Base course                    Daily spot           Final approval
                                     inspection           required before base
   Curb forming                   Spot inspection      Checking of forms
                                                          prior to concrete
   Sidewalk                       Spot inspection      Checking of forms
                                                          prior to concrete
   Curbs, sidewalk & structure in Spot inspection      During placement
ROW
   Binder course                  As required by       During placement
                                     Village
   Surface course                 Full-time inspection During placement
   Driveway apron                 As required by        
                                     complexity
Other improvements                                        
   Lakes and detention basins     As required by       Rough and fine
                                     Village              grading
   Building                       As required by        
                                     complexity
   Recreation area                As required by        
                                     complexity
Off-site improvements                As required by        
                                     Village
                                                          Process payment
                                                          estimate, bond status
Construction guidance and            As required by       reports,
administration                       Village              correspondence,
                                                          permit applications,
                                                          "punch list"
 
   D.   Qualifications Of Contractors: The developer shall file with the
village a list of all contractors and subcontractors who are to participate in
the construction of public improvements. Such contractors and subcontractors
shall be subject to disqualification by reason of faulty performance of prior
construction work done.
   E.   Sequence Of Construction: No underground utilities or storm sewers,
except inlet drains, shall be installed under the pavement in streets, alleys,
service roads, or highways. Service connections to such underground utilities
and sewers shall be extended to the property line of each lot so as to obviate
disturbing the surface improvements in such public ways when service
connections are later made. Where underground utilities are located in the
parkway adjacent to the paved roadway, service connections to properties across
such roadway shall only be made by drilling under the pavement in such a way
that surfacing is not disturbed or weakened, and excavation shall be compacted
granular backfill and properly restored. The current "Illinois Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction", latest edition, shall
apply.
   F.   Debris Removal: The subdivider shall clean and maintain all public
ways, sewers, and drains free from debris and trash or other extraneous
material, prior to acceptance and at such other times during construction as
the village may deem necessary to prevent the creation of a public nuisance.
   G.   Modification Of Design Of Improvements During Construction: During the
course of inspection, the appropriate public inspector will especially note any
circumstances which entail departures in the as built improvements from the
plans and specifications as approved, such as an unforeseen difficulty in
drainage, groundwater, poor subsoil, unstable fill material or in conventional
or faulty practices of subcontractors. Whenever such departures are likely to
cause either a lower ultimate level or performance or a higher construction
cost than could reasonably have been anticipated, he shall prepare a report of
his findings in the situation and promptly forward copies to the president of
the village board, to the village manager and to the enforcing officers. (Ord.
92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-18: SOILS, GRADING, AND EROSION CONTROLS:
If at all possible, existing contours should be preserved. When the ground
elevations are to be altered by more than two feet (2'), the proposed contours
shall be depicted on a plan according to the provisions of the Illinois
procedures and standards for "Urban Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control",
Association Of Illinois Soil And Water Control Districts, current edition, and
shall be approved by the village engineer. (Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
10-10-19: LAND DEDICATIONS AND COMPLETION, MAINTENANCE AND ACCEPTANCE OF
IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Land Dedications:
      1.   Dedications By Irrevocable Offer To Dedicate: Dedications of all
land, easements and rights of way to the public shall be shown and indicated on
the final plat, which shall be accompanied by an irrevocable offer to dedicate
said land, which offer shall be filed at the office of the recorder of deeds.
      2.   Acceptance By Village: Acceptance of such dedicated land easements
or rights of way shall be subject to the action of the village board with the
approval of a plat and/or a warranty deed as required by state law, upon
receipt of evidence of good title. (Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015)
   B.   Construction And Installation Of Improvements:
      1.   Completion Before Approval Of Final Plat: Approval of the final plat
by the village board is contingent on the following:
         a.   All off site and on site street, water, sanitary sewer, and other
improvements, necessary to service the lots and buildings on the property
contained in the final plat, shall be constructed and installed within one year
after the approval to the satisfaction of the village engineer, as specified in
the approved final engineering drawings; and
         b.   Said improvements shall be dedicated to and accepted by either
the village board homeowners' association or the appropriate agency free and
clear of all liens and encumbrances on the property and public improvements
thus dedicated.
      2.   Posting Of A Bond, Cash, Or Other Securities:
         a.   The village board in its discretion may waive the requirement
that the required improvements be completed and dedicated prior to the approval
of the final plat, and that, as an alternative, the subdivider shall post a
bond, cash, or other securities, at the time of application for approval of the
final plat, in an amount estimated by the village engineer to be equal to one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the cost of construction and installation of the
uncompleted portion of the required improvements, both on site and off site,
except that all required improvements shall be installed, inspected, dedicated,
and accepted by the village before any building permits shall be issued.
         b.   The depositing of any performance bond, cash, or other securities
shall comply with all ordinance requirements, and said bond, cash or other
securities shall be satisfactory to the village attorney as to form,
sufficiency, and manner of execution.
         c.   The period within which the required improvements must be
completed (1 year after the approval) shall be specified by the village board
in the resolution approving the final plat and shall be incorporated in the
bond or in the agreement depositing the cash or other securities with the
village.
         d.   Any bond, cash, or other securities shall be payable to the
village, and shall be enforceable by the village, on or beyond a date six (6)
months after the scheduled date of completion of the required improvements.
Upon proof of difficulty, the village board may grant an extension of the
completion date for a maximum period of one year.
      3.   Temporary Improvements: The subdivider shall build and pay for all
costs of temporary improvements required by the village board and shall
maintain same for the period specified by the board. Prior to construction of
any temporary facility or improvement, the subdivider shall file with the
village a separate suitable bond, cash or other securities for the temporary
facilities, which shall insure that the temporary facilities are properly
constructed, maintained and removed.
      4.   Governmental Units: Governmental units to which any requirements for
bond, cash, or other securities may apply may file in lieu of said requirements
a certified resolution or ordinance from officers or agencies authorized to act
in their behalf, agreeing to comply with the provisions for the installation of
any necessary and required improvements.
      5.   Reduction Of Bond Or Release Of A Portion Of Cash And Other
Securities: A performance bond may be reduced and cash and other securities
released in part upon actual dedication and acceptance of any required
improvements, and then only to the ratio that the dedicated and accepted
improvement bears to the total improvements required to be installed. In no
event shall a bond be reduced or cash and other securities released below
twenty five percent (25%) of the principal amount, until all required
improvements are dedicated and accepted.
   C.   Inspection Of Improvements And Preparation Of As Built Plans:
      1.   Inspection By Village Engineer: The village engineer shall inspect
all required improvements during construction to ensure that they are installed
to his satisfaction in conformance with the regulations contained herein and
the approved final engineering drawings. The subdivider shall pay all such
inspection fees and charges as established by this ordinance.
      2.   Corrections At Subdivider's Expense: If the village engineer finds
upon inspection that any of the required improvements have not been constructed
and installed in accordance with the standards and specifications of the
village and in conformance with the approved final engineering drawings, the
subdivider shall be responsible for completing and correcting the required
improvements, before same shall be accepted by the village. Whenever the cost
of the improvements is covered by a performance bond, the subdivider and the
bonding company shall be severally and jointly liable for completing the
improvements according to village specifications and approved final engineering
drawings.
      3.   Preparation Of As Built Plans: As built plans, showing the location,
size and invert elevation of all valves, manholes, stubs, sewer and water
mains, and other improvements, shall be prepared by the developer's engineer
prior to the acceptance of the required improvements by either the village
board, homeowners' association or the appropriate agency, and shall be
submitted to the village engineer. At the end of the construction of the
required improvements, one final set of as built drawings shall be prepared,
drawn in black (india) ink on tracing cloth, or materials of equal permanence
and durability, and shall bear the seal and signature of the preparing
engineer. The preparation of this set of plans for the village shall be a
condition of acceptance of the required improvements by the village and the
release of any bond, cash or other securities assuring their completion. This
set of plans or a reproducible copy thereof shall become the property of the
village.
   D.   Dedication And Acceptance Of Improvements:
      1.   Dedication Of Improvements:
         a.   All improvements to be constructed and installed as required
hereunder, as specified in the final engineering drawings, or as required by
the village board shall be dedicated to the village, unless the village board
specifically authorized otherwise at the time that it approves the final plat.
         b.   Title to the improvements required to be dedicated to the village
shall be transferred by bill of sale, with proof of ownership in the grantor
and evidence that said improvements are free and clear of any and all liens and
encumbrances, which shall be in a form acceptable to the village attorney, and
which may include lien wavers from all major subcontractors and materialmen.
      2.   Acceptance Of The Improvements By The Village:
         a.   The village board shall not accept dedication of the required
improvements, nor release nor reduce the bond, cash or other securities, until
the village engineer has certified that all required improvements have been
satisfactorily completed and installed and that as built drawings have been
submitted and until the village attorney has reviewed the evidence showing
clear title to the improvements in the grantor.
         b.   All required improvements, both off site and on site, necessary
to service the lots and buildings on the property contained in the final plat
shall be dedicated to and accepted by the village before the final plat is
approved or, if a bond, cash or other securities are posted with the village,
before any building permits shall be issued.
         c.   Lack of acceptance by the village of the required improvements
shall not limit the power of the village to maintain and improve said
improvements, to extend said improvements and to allow third parties to use
said improvements.
   E.   Maintenance Of Improvements:
      1.   Maintenance Of Nonaccepted Improvements At Subdivider's Expense: The
subdivider shall maintain and repair all required improvements, including snow
removal on street and sidewalks, if necessary, until acceptance of said
improvements by the village board. If necessary maintenance and repairs are not
made to the required improvements in a timely fashion by the subdivider, the
village may, on twelve (12) hours' notice, effect such repairs or maintenance,
including snowplowing, and shall charge the costs of same to the subdivider.
      2.   Filing Of Maintenance Bond Or Retention Of Guarantee: At the option
of the village board:
         a.   The subdivider shall file a maintenance bond with the village,
prior to the dedication of the improvements, in an amount considered adequate
by the village engineer and in a form satisfactory to the village attorney, in
order to assure the satisfactory condition of the required improvements for a
period of one year after the date of their acceptance by the village board.
         b.   The village shall retain a portion of the bond, cash or other
securities, posted in conformance with subsections B through E of this section,
equal to five percent (5%) of the cost of the accepted improvements. This
guarantee shall be retained for a period of one year after the date of the
acceptance of the dedicated improvements by the village board. During this
period, the funds shall be used to pay for the cost of any repairs to the
accepted improvements not paid for by the subdivider. At the end of the period,
any remaining funds shall be returned to the subdivider.
   F.   Cost Of Improvements To The Village:
      1.   Required Improvements At Subdivider's Expense: All costs related to
the construction and installation of the required improvements shall be borne
by the subdivider, and said improvements shall be dedicated to the village
without charge.
      2.   Oversized Improvements: Whenever necessary, to conform to the
comprehensive plan of the village, or otherwise to protect or promote the
public interest, the village may require that the required improvements be
oversized. The cost to construct and install such oversized facilities by the
subdivider shall be no greater than that which would result from the
construction and installation of improvements sized for his own subdivision.
The excess cost resulting from the requirements of oversizing the improvement
shall be borne by the village or appropriate public authority, or by other
affected property owners in a recapture ordinance, or in an abatement of a
portion of required tap-on fees and charges, as specified by the village board
at the time of approval of the detailed engineering drawings. (Ord. 92-1855,
12-14-1992)
10-10-20: VACATIONS:
   A.   Procedure For Vacations Of Village Rights Of Way: All requests for the
vacation of village owned rights of way shall follow the procedure set forth in
the policy governing the disposal of public right of way property approved by
the corporate authorities of the village on March 26, 2007, under resolution
07-1955, as amended. The policy is entitled "village excess rights of way
disposal policy and procedures dated March 26, 2007" (the "ROW policy"). The
ROW policy incorporates the requirements for vacating public rights of way as
set forth in the Illinois vacation statute 1  and this section.
      1.   Approval: Final action on the request for a vacation of public right
of way requires approval of an ordinance by two- thirds (2/3) of the board of
trustees.
      2.   Application; Submittals: The applicant shall submit a request for
the vacation of public right of way to the village manager in accordance with
the ROW policy. The director of municipal services, or his/her designee, shall
be responsible for the coordination, preparation or ordering of the documents
necessary to complete the vacation of public right of way. To the extent
necessary, the village engineer and the village attorney will assist the
village staff with the review of the vacation request and related documents
needed to complete the vacation process and will also assist with the
coordination, preparation or ordering of the documents necessary to complete
the vacation of public right of way. These documents shall include:
         a.   Plat of vacation of public right of way and reservation of public
easements.
         b.   Ordinance approving the plat of vacation of public right of way
and reservation of public easements and the vacation transaction.
         c.   Title policy, which will be issued by a title insurer after the
approving ordinance and the plat are filed with the Cook County recorder of
deeds (CCRD) office.
         d.   Affidavit of the director of municipal services or community
development director, or his/her designee, regarding historic and current use
of the public right of way (prepared for and delivered to the title insurer).
         e.   Letter of payment issued by the finance director confirming
payment of the purchase price for the public right of way (prepared for and
delivered to the title insurer).
         f.   Such other documents requested by the director of municipal
services or community development director, or his/her designee, in order to
complete the vacation process.
      3.   Deposit And Reimbursement Of Village For Application And Plat Review
Fees And Costs: The deposit amount shall be set forth in the ROW policy and
shall be used to pay for the review of the application, necessary document
preparation, and submittals by the village's staff, the village engineer, the
village attorney and any other village consultant requested by the director of
municipal services or the community development director, as well as the filing
fees of the Cook County recorder of deeds (CCRD) office for the filing of the
plat. If the deposit is insufficient to satisfy the review costs and fees and
filing fees, upon written request of the director of municipal services, or
his/her designee, the applicant is responsible for paying the balance due and
payment shall be a condition of final approval of the plat. The director of
municipal services, or his/her designee, shall provide the applicant with an
itemized summary of the review costs, document preparation costs and filing
fees incurred in regard to the application and plat approval.
   B.   Procedure For Abrogation Or Vacation Of Village Easements: In all
cases, the abrogation or vacation of any plat, or part thereof, that contains
any village easement or part thereof shall follow the procedure for the review
of plats established in this ordinance, except:
      1.   Approval: Final action shall be taken by the village board after
consultation with the plan commission.
      2.   Application; Submittals; Deposit And Reimbursement Of Village For
Application And Plat Review Fees And Costs: An applicant (the property owner or
person with an ownership interest in the property with the written consent of
the property owner) may apply for approval of a plat of an administrative minor
subdivision by completing and submitting an executed application and the
submittal requirements and paying to the village a required minimum deposit of
two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). An application may be obtained
from the director of municipal services, or his/her designee, or from the
village website. The deposit shall be used to pay for the review of the
application, necessary document preparation, and submittals by the village's
staff, the village engineer, the village attorney and any other village
consultant requested by the director of municipal services, or his/her
designee, as well as the filing fees of the Cook County recorder of deeds
(CCRD) office for the filing of the plat. If the deposit is insufficient to
satisfy the review costs and fees and filing fees, upon written request of the
director of municipal services, or his/her designee, the applicant is
responsible for paying the balance due and payment shall be a condition of
final approval of the plat. The director of municipal services, or his/her
designee, shall provide the applicant with an itemized summary of the review
costs, document preparation costs and filing fees incurred in regard to the
application and plat approval.
   C.   Petition Form And Content: The sketch and preliminary plat of
abrogation or vacation shall include, on its face, the following information:
      1.   Legal description for the easement area to be abrogated or the right
of way area to be vacated;
      2.   Legal description for each retained or reserved easement and a
legend that describes each retained or reserved easement;
      3.   Drawing showing the underlying lot, property index number, common
street address, and the abrogated or vacated easement area;
      4.   Data and information found in subsection
10-10-3F2b of this chapter as required by the director of municipal services or
the community development director, or their designee, or the CCRD;
      5.   Signature blocks as required by state law and the community
development director or the director of municipal services, or their designee,
or the CCRD, or the Cook County clerk's office; and
      6.   Such other information requested by the community development
director or the director of municipal services, or their designee, or the CCRD,
or the Cook County clerk's office.
Final petitions for vacation or abrogation of a village easement shall include
the following items:
      1.   Three (3) copies of the original underlying plat certified by the
CCRD to be a true copy of same, on which is shown the portion to be vacated
outlined in a heavy line and hatched;
      2.   Check or cash deposit for reimbursement of village costs incurred in
reviewing and processing the petition.
      3.   The following documents shall be submitted to the village:
         a.   Plat of vacation or plat of abrogation of easement: One copy of a
full, large scale plat plus three (3) copies of a smaller scale plat (11 inches
x 17 inches).
         b.   Petition: Three (3) copies.
         c.   County clerk's certificate.
         d.   Resolution approving the plat.
         e.   Assessor's certificate.
         f.   The petition as it is presented to the village board is to be
accompanied by a recommendation from the village manager, or his/her designee.
   D.   Standards: The village manager and the other administrative officers
shall recommend disapproval of any petition for vacation that fails to meet the
following standards:
      1.   No vacation shall be approved which creates a condition which would
not be permitted under the standards of design set forth herein, unless such
vacation will at the same time correct a more serious condition which exists
contrary to the standards of this ordinance.
      2.   No vacation shall be approved which will result in a violation of
this ordinance or other applicable ordinances or regulations, unless such
vacation will at the same time correct a more serious condition which exists
contrary to such ordinances or regulations.
   E.   Easements: The vacation or abrogation of any plat or part thereof, or
right of way, easement or part thereof, shall not be deemed to be a vacation of
the rights of any public or private utility where said utility has installed
its facilities therein. All such vacations shall be made upon the express
condition that the petitioner and abutting property owner(s) either accept the
reservation of public utilities easements within the vacated right of way or
grant to all public utilities, their successors and assignees new easements to
operate, maintain, renew and reconstruct or relocate their facilities, over or
under the remaining public right of way or within new easements and such
condition shall be noted in the deed or plat of vacation and in the ordinance
or resolution of vacation.
   F.   Bonds: The village of Western Springs may require the petitioner to
furnish a bond in an amount sufficient to protect the village, indemnifying it
for any suit which may be filed for damages sustained as a result of such
vacation.
   G.   Limitation: Nothing contained herein, nor any required certificate,
shall be deemed in any way to limit the right and authority of the village of
Western Springs to vacate or abrogate any plat or part thereof, or any right of
way or easement or part thereof where it finds that such vacation will serve
the public interest.
   H.   Resubdivision In Lieu Of Vacation: It shall not be necessary to vacate
a plat or part thereof in order to proceed with a resubdivision of said plat or
part thereof. Resubdivision according to the procedure and standards for
subdivisions required by this chapter shall automatically constitute vacation
of a prior plat or part thereof, provided that monetary remuneration shall be
paid to the village of Western Springs in consideration of any excess public
property to be vacated over that portion of public property to be dedicated
within the subdivision. The monetary remuneration shall be set in accordance
with the pricing schedule set forth in the ROW policy, or such other lesser or
greater dollar amount as approved by the corporate authorities of the village.
   I.   Cancellation Of Bonded Contracts: Bonded contracts for the improvement
of platted streets or alleys shall be automatically canceled upon vacation of
such platted streets or alleys. (Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-91-1 et seq.
10-10-21: PLATS OF CONSOLIDATION:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter which would require the
plan commission and/or the village board to take action in regard to a proposed
plat of subdivision, a plat of consolidation may be approved administratively
by the director of community development, without need to bring said plat of
consolidation before the plan commission or the village board, provided the lot
(s) created by said plat of consolidation meets or exceeds the minimum lot area
and size requirements for the applicable zoning district classification and is
otherwise in full compliance with applicable provisions of this ordinance. The
intent of this section is not to avoid compliance with the subdivision
regulations, but to allow an applicant to combine multiple, adjacent parcels of
real property into either one platted lot or multiple platted lots that are
fewer in number than the initial lots of real property that are subject to the
consolidation request.
   A.   Application; Deposit And Reimbursement Of Village For Application And
Plat Review Fees And Costs: An applicant (the property owner or person with an
ownership interest in the property with the written consent of the property
owner) may apply for approval of a plat of consolidation by completing and
submitting an executed application and the submittal requirements and paying to
the village a required minimum deposit of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00). An application may be obtained from the community development
department or from the village website. The deposit shall be used to pay for
the review of the application, necessary document preparation, and submittals
by the village's staff, the village engineer, the village attorney and any
other village consultant requested by the community development director, as
well as the filing fees of the Cook County recorder of deeds (CCRD) office for
the filing of the plat. If the deposit is insufficient to satisfy the review
costs and fees and filing fees, upon written request of the community
development director, the applicant is responsible for paying the balance due
and payment shall be a condition of final approval of the plat. Upon recording
of the plat, the community development director shall provide the applicant
with an itemized summary of the review costs, document preparation costs and
filing fees incurred in regard to the application and plat approval.
   B.   Plat Content: The plat of consolidation shall include, on its face, the
following information:
      1.   Legal description for the consolidated lot or legal descriptions for
each individual lot created by the consolidation.
      2.   The data and information found in section
10-10-4, "General Design Standards", of this chapter.
      3.   The data and information found in section
10-10-8, "Easements", of this chapter.
      4.   The data and information found in section
10-11-13, "Other Development Requirements", of this ordinance.
      5.   Signature blocks as required by the community development director
or the CCRD, or the Cook County clerk's office.
      6.   Such other information requested by the community development
director or the CCRD, or the Cook County clerk's office.
   C.   Submittal Requirements: The submittal requirements for a complete
application shall include:
      1.   A plat of consolidation that conforms to the requirements of this
section.
      2.   Legal descriptions of the underlying parcels that are subject to the
consolidation request.
      3.   Proof of payment of current and prior real estate taxes.
      4.   Proof of ownership of the parcels that are subject to the
consolidation request. (Ord. 15-2794, 3-23-2015)
CHAPTER 11
FLOODPLAIN AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
10-11-1: Short Title, Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Methods Of
Reducing Flood Losses
10-11-2: Scope, Permits
10-11-3: Definitions
10-11-4: Procedures To Be Followed
10-11-5: Duties Of The Village Engineer
10-11-6: Base Flood Elevation
10-11-7: Occupation And Use Of Flood Fringe Areas
10-11-8: Construction Of The Lowest Floor Below The Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
10-11-9: Occupation And Use Of Identified Floodways
10-11-10: Occupation And Use Of SFHA Areas Where Floodways Are Not Identified
10-11-11: Stormwater Management Requirements For All Developments
10-11-12: Permitting Requirements Applicable To All Floodplain Areas
10-11-13: Other Development Requirements
10-11-14: Variances
10-11-15: Disclaimer Of Liability
10-11-16: Failure To Comply; Fines
10-11-17: Application To Other Regulations, Covenants And Easements
10-11-1: SHORT TITLE, AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS OF
REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter of the development control ordinance shall be
known and may be cited as the WESTERN SPRINGS FLOODPLAIN AND STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT CHAPTER.
   B.   Authorization: The legislature of the State in the compiled statutes
has delegated to local government units the authority to adopt regulations
designed to control drainage, granted by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1,
5/11-12-5, 5/11-12-6, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-13-1, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2,
5/11-109-1, 5/11-110-1, 5/11-110-2 and 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 815/1.
   C.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the Village are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures or flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions on areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities and, when inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected
from flood damage also contributes to the flood loss.
   D.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to maintain this Village's
eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential
losses due to periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare; and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface
waters, conserve economic and natural values and provide for the wise
utilization of water and related land resources. This chapter is adopted in
order to accomplish the following specific purposes:
      1.   To meet the requirements of 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18g,
"an Act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams of the
State of Illinois", approved June 10, 1911, as amended;
      2.   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or
drainage hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to
erosion;
      3.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      4.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      5.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
      6.   To make Federally subsidized flood insurance available for property
in the Village by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program;
      7.   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 CFR 59-78, as amended;
      8.   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land
and water resources;
      9.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of
watercourses and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts,
improve water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian
habitat, provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and
enhance community and economic development;
      10.   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in
order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce
soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development;
      11.   To diminish threats to public health, safety and welfare caused by
the inundation of valuable properties by stormwater runoff, the pollution of
valuable stream and lake resources by poor stormwater runoff quality and the
destruction of valuable resources including aquatic habitat by excessive
quantities and rates of stormwater runoff. The cause of increases in stormwater
runoff quantity, rate and quality is the development and improvement of land
and as such this chapter regulates these activities to prevent adverse impacts
resulting from their occurrence.
   E.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
      1.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural or manmade protective and designated barriers, which help
accommodate or channel floodwaters;
      4.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase flood damage;
      5.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other areas; and
      6.   Controlling development to assure that new development does not
increase the flood or drainage hazards to others, or create unstable conditions
susceptible to erosion. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-2: SCOPE, PERMITS:
   A.   Scope Of Provisions:
      1.   This chapter supplements the following ordinances of the Village:
Western Springs subdivision control ordinance
Western Springs zoning ordinance
Western Springs building regulations
      2.   The provisions of this chapter regulate and restrict:
         a.   The subdivision, layout and improvement of land, including
drainage, underground utilities and service facilities;
         b.   The excavating, filling and grading of lots and other parcels and
areas of floodplains, the storing of certain materials thereon, modifications
of streams and other floodwater runoff channels, detention ponds and basins;
and
         c.   The location, construction and elevation of buildings and other
structures and parts and appurtenances thereof, and the drainage of parking and
other paved lots or areas.
   B.   Permits: A Village building permit and/or a development permit shall be
obtained before starting any of the work regulated by this chapter. The
application for such permit shall comply with the requirements of the
regulations set forth in subsection A1 of this section and shall, without
limitation, conform to such provisions with respect to submission and approval
of preliminary and final subdivision plats, improvement plans providing for
inspection, and applications for appeals; and further, such application shall
be in accordance with all requirements set forth in this chapter and as
required by other ordinances of the Village and the County of Cook, Statutes of
the State and regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   C.   Watershed Management Ordinance: The watershed management ordinance
("WMO"), adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago on October 3, 2013 as ordinance O13-
002, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to
"developments" and "qualified sewer construction", as defined in, and in
accordance with, the terms of the watershed management ordinance, which,
together with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set
forth, three (3) copies of which have been on file for a period of more than
thirty (30) days prior to the effective date hereof, are now on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk.
Section 202.3 of the WMO allows the Village to impose more stringent
regulations than the WMO on "developments" and "qualified sewer construction"
subject to the WMO. The Village hereby exercises its authority under section
202.3 of the WMO to impose a more stringent regulation on the allowable release
rate for developments in section 504.3(A) by decreasing the allowable release
rate from 0.30 cfs/acre of development therein to 0.15 cfs/acre of development.
Also, where there is a discrepancy or conflict between this Code and the WMO,
the more stringent regulation shall govern. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A nonhabitable structure which is on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
ACT: "An Act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams of
the State of Illinois", 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq., as amended.
ADVERSE IMPACTS: Any deleterious impact on water resources or wetlands
affecting their beneficial uses including recreation, aesthetics, aquatic
habitat, quality, and quantity.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the Department of Code Enforcement and/or the
Village Engineer's interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request
for a variance.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation, or governmental agency who executes
the necessary forms to procure official approval of a project or permit to
carry out construction of a project from the Village of Western Springs.
APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible and
will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed are
as specified in subsection
10-11-9D of this chapter.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year
(100-year flood).
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by walls
and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured
home, mobile home or a prefabricated building. This term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or ground water flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of channel by changing the physical dimensions
or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes damming,
riprapping or other armoring, widening, deepening, straightening, relocating,
lining and significant removal of bottom or woody vegetation. Channel
modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying vegetation, debris
or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form of channel
modification typically involving a relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off site floodwater elevations and flows.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and the Federal Emergency Management Agency of a proposed
change to the floodway map. This preconstruction approval, pursuant to this
definition, gives assurances to the property owner that once an appropriate use
is constructed according to permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed,
as previously agreed, upon review and acceptance of as built plans.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that the
Federal Emergency Management Agency will revise base flood elevations, flood
insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or floodway as shown on an effective
flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map, once the as built plans
are submitted and approved.
CONDUIT: Any channel, pipe, sewer or culvert used for the conveyance or
movement of water, whether open or closed.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of critical facilities where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances). Examples
of critical facilities where flood protection is recommended include: sewage
treatment plants, water treatment plants, and pumping stations.
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
related abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of
storing or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks
are not included.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel, including on stream lakes, and that portion
of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by IDNR/
OWR, which is needed to store and convey the existing and anticipated future
100-year frequency flood discharge with no more than a one-tenth foot (0.1')
increase in stage due to the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more
than a ten percent (10%) increase in velocities.
   A.   The floodways are designated for Flagg Creek on the Countywide flood
insurance rate map number 17031C and panels 0458F, 0459F, 0466F and 0467F
prepared by FEMA and dated August 19, 2008. When two (2) floodway maps exist
for a waterway, the more restrictive floodway limit shall prevail.
   B.   The floodways for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village that may be annexed
into the Village are designated for Flagg Creek on the Countywide FIRM prepared
by FEMA and dated August 19, 2008.
   C.   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the designated
floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map and located
on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation
is needed to determine the exact location of the designated floodway boundary,
IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
DETENTION BASIN: A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of stormwater runoff and the controlled release of this
runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
DETENTION TIME: The mean residence time of stormwater in a detention basin.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
   A.   Construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
   B.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days;
   C.   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
or similar projects;
   D.   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site;
   E.   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction;
   F.   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or culverts;
channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of materials;
deposit of solid or liquid waste;
   G.   Any other activity of man that might change the magnitude, frequency,
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface stormwater from properties,
including extensive vegetation removal;
Development does not include maintenance of existing buildings and facilities
such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads when there is no increase in
elevation, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do
not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
DRAINAGE PLAN: A plan, including engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describes the existing stormwater drainage system and
environmental features as well as the drainage system and environmental
features which will be in place after development of a property.
DRY BASIN: A detention basin designed to drain completely after temporary
storage of stormwater flows and to normally be dry over the majority of its
bottom area.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the BFE
and the lowest elevation of a building's lowest floor.
EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water, wave
action, wind or gravity.
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this chapter per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes including State, Federal or local units of
government.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59-79,
as amended.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The current version of a map prepared by FEMA
that depicts the special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map
includes insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict
floodways.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The current version of the official report in
which FEMA has provided flood profile, as well as the flood boundary/floodway
map and the water surface elevation of the base flood including its associated
FIRMs.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood plus one foot (1') of freeboard at any given location in the
SFHA.
FLOODPLAIN: That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA).
   A.   The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the Village
that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency flood.
The SFHAs of the Village are generally identified in the Cook County Countywide
FIRM map panels 0458J, 0459J, 0466J, 0467J, 0468J and 0469J dated effective
August 19, 2008, of the Countywide flood insurance rate map for Cook County
prepared by FEMA.
   B.   The SFHAs for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within
the one and one-half (11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village
and may be annexed into the Village are designated for Flagg Creek in the Cook
County Countywide FIRM map panels 0458J, 0459J, 0466J, 0467J, 0468J and 0469J
dated effective August 19, 2008 prepared by FEMA.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: The channel and portion of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or
watercourse that is needed to convey the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than a tenth of a foot.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, unknown localized
conditions, wave actions and unpredictable effects such as those caused by ice
or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by the
Illinois Historic Preservation Agency;
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
HYDROGRAPH: A graph showing, for a given location on a stream or conduit, the
flow rate with respect to time.
HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analysis which determines
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water Resources.
INFILTRATION: The passage or movement of water into the soil surfaces.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a specific
structure is not in a 100-year flood zone; amends the effective flood hazard
boundary map or FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, BFE, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries
or floodways as shown on an effective FHBM or FIRM.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter.
MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: That portion of a drainage system needed to store and
convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage system.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
manufactured homes also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: That portion of a drainage system designed for the
convenience of the public. It consists of street gutters, storm sewers, small
open channels, and swales and is usually designed to handle the 10-year runoff
event or less.
MITIGATION: Those measures necessary to minimize the negative effects which
stormwater drainage or floodplain development activities might have on the
public health, safety and welfare. Any measures either singly or in combination
which are designed to lessen or remedy the impacts of any activity. Examples of
mitigation include compensatory storage, soil erosion and sedimentation
control, and channel restoration.
NAVD 88: National American Vertical Datum of 1988. NAVD 88 supersedes the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD).
NFIP: National Flood Insurance Program, created by Congress in 1968,
administered by the Federal Insurance Administration within FEMA.
NGVD: National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1988. Reference surface set by the
National Geodetic Survey deduced from a continental adjustment of all existing
adjustments in 1929.
NATURAL: When used in reference to channels, means those channels formed by the
existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is
reestablished. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Buildings for which the start of construction was on or after
the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by the
community, and includes subsequent improvements to such buildings.
100-YEAR EVENT: A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having a one percent (1%)
chance of occurring in any given year.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of hydrophylic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
PEAK FLOW: The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel or
conduit.
PUBLIC BODIES OF WATERS: All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which in their natural condition were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the
borders of the State of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs,
backwaters, and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of
water directly accessible thereto.
PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures which includes a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing
and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall
preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in
part, of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public
agencies.
PUBLICLY NAVIGABLE WATERS: All streams and lakes capable of being navigated by
watercraft.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGIONAL PERMITS: Offered for preapproved projects which are considered minor
projects that are permissible per IDNR/OWR part 3708 rules for northeastern
Illinois regulatory floodways. A complete listing of the terms and conditions
for specific project types can be obtained from the IDNR/OWR website.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the State of Illinois,
under the Illinois Land Surveyors Act.
REGISTERED OR LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the
State of Illinois, under the Illinois Professional Engineering Practice Act.
REPAIR OR REMODELING: Development activities which do not result in any
increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes to the
dimensions of a structure.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores stormwater runoff
without gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of
stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a
flood or storm.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch, on stream lake system or any other identified channel. This term
does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes, ponding areas, areas of
sheet flow or other areas not subject to overbank flooding.
RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land surface
exceeding the infiltration capacity of the soil and flowing over the surface of
the ground or collected in channels or conduits.
SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Any base flood area subject to flooding from
a river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch, or any other identified channel or
ponding and shown on a flood insurance rate map as Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99,
AH, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M, or E.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: The date the building permit was issued provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement or other
improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
"actual start" means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles; the construction of columns, or any manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STATEWIDE PERMITS: Offered for preapproved projects that are considered minor
projects, which are permissible per the IDNR/OWR part 3700 rules. A complete
listing of the Statewide permits and permit requirements can be obtained from
the IDNR/OWR website.
STORM SEWER: A closed conduit for conveying only collected stormwater.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: All means, natural or manmade, used for conducting
stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to the point of final outlet
from a property. The stormwater drainage system includes, but is not limited
to, any of the following: conduits and appurtenance features, canals, channels,
ditches, streams, culverts, streets, storm sewers, detention basins, swales and
pumping stations.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within
a tributary drainage basin which are in excess of the infiltration capacity of
the soils of that basin, which flow over the surface of the ground or are
collected in channels or conduits.
STRUCTURE: See definition of building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage during a ten (10) year period equals or exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes repetitive
loss buildings (see definition of repetitive loss).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption hereof in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure during a ten (10) year period before
the improvement or repair is started.
TIME OF CONCENTRATION: The elapsed time for stormwater to flow from the most
hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point of
interest in that watershed.
TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from a
narrow cross section to a wide cross section or vice versa.
TRIBUTARY AREA: All of the land surface area that contributes runoff to a given
point.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
VILLAGE: Village of Western Springs, Cook County, Illinois.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The officially appointed Village Engineer of the Village or
his duly authorized representative.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided.
WET BASIN: A detention basin designed to maintain a permanent pool of water
after the temporary storage of stormwater runoff. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-4: PROCEDURES TO BE FOLLOWED:
The Village Engineer shall be responsible for fulfilling all of the duties
listed in section
10-11-5 of this chapter.
   A.   To fulfill those duties, the Village Engineer should first use the
criteria listed in section
10-11-6 of this chapter to determine whether the development site is located
within a floodplain. Once it has been determined that a site is located within
a floodplain, the Village Engineer must determine whether the development site
is within a flood fringe, a designated floodway, or within an SFHA or
floodplain for which no floodway has been identified. If the site is within a
flood fringe, the Village Engineer shall require that the minimum requirements
of section
10-11-7 of this chapter be met. If the site is within a floodway, the Village
Engineer shall require that the minimum requirements of section
10-11-9 of this chapter be met. If the site is located within an SFHA or
floodplain for which no detailed study has been completed and approved, the
Village Engineer shall require that the minimum requirements of section
10-11-10 of this chapter be met. In addition, the general requirements of
section
10-11-11 of this chapter shall be met for all developments meeting the
requirements of section
10-11-7,
10-11-9, or
10-11-10 of this chapter.
   B.   The Village Engineer shall assure that all subdivision proposals shall
meet the requirements of section
10-11-13 of this chapter.
   C.   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the Village Engineer
shall review the requirements of section
10-11-14 of this chapter to make sure they are met. In addition, the Village
Engineer shall complete all notification requirements.
   D.   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this chapter, the Village Engineer may take any and all actions as outlined in
section
10-11-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-5: DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE ENGINEER:
The Village Engineer shall be responsible for the general administration and
enforcement of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the following
duties:
   A.   Determining The Floodplain Designation: Check all new development sites
to determine whether they are in a special flood hazard area (SFHA). If they
are in an SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway, flood fringe or in a
floodplain for which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains
more than one square mile. Check whether the development is potentially within
an extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than 1 square mile), indicating
that the development would have adverse impacts regarding storage, conveyance,
or inundation which would be the basis for the applicant being required to
delineate the floodplain and floodway and be subject to the remaining sections
of this chapter.
   B.   Professional Engineer Review: If the development site is within a
floodway or in a floodplain for which a detailed study has not been conducted
and which drains more than one square mile, the permit shall be referred to a
licensed professional engineer under the employ or contract of the Village for
review to ensure that the development meets the requirements of section
10-11-9 or
10-11-10 of this chapter. In the case of an appropriate use, the PE shall state
in writing that the development meets the requirements of section
10-11-9 of this chapter.
   C.   Dam Safety Requirements: Dams are classified as to their size and their
hazard/damage potential in the event of failure. The construction or major
modification of all Class I (high hazard) and Class II (moderate hazard) dams
require an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit. Some Class III (low hazard) dams require
an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit, depending on the drainage area to the dam, the
height of the dam and the impounding capacity behind the dam. Most off channel
detention basins that have an embankment are nonjurisdictional Class III dams.
It is not required that IDNR/OWR "sign off" on all nonjurisdictional Class III
dams. A consulting engineer with dam safety knowledge can estimate a hazard
classification and determine if an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit is required. A
permit application submittal must be made to IDNR/OWR for the construction or
major modification of jurisdictional dams. Regulated dams may include weirs,
restrictive culverts or impoundment structures.
   D.   Other Permit Requirements: Ensure that any and all required Federal,
State and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
   E.   Plan Review And Permit Issuance: Ensure that all development activities
within the SFHAs of the jurisdiction of the Village meet the requirements of
this chapter and issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and other regulations of this community when the
development meets the conditions of this chapter.
   F.   Inspection Review: Inspect all development projects before, during and
after construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and schedule on an annual basis
an inspection of the floodplain and document the results of the inspection.
   G.   Damage Determinations: Make damage determinations of all damaged
buildings in the SFHA after a flood to determine substantially damaged
structures, which must comply with section
10-11-3 of this chapter.
   H.   Elevation And Floodproofing Certificates: Maintain in the permit files
an elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of a residential or nonresidential building subject to
section
10-11-12 of this chapter, or the elevation to which a nonresidential building
has been floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings
subject to section
10-11-12 of this chapter.
   I.   Records For Public Inspection: Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and designated floodway maps, copies
of Federal or State permit documents, variance documentation, conditional
letter of map revision, letter of map revision, letter of map amendment and "as
built" elevation and floodproofing and/or elevation certificates for all
buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
   J.   State Permits: Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by IDNR/OWR for all development projects subject to sections
10-11-9 and
10-11-10 of this chapter, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated
to the Village. Upon acceptance of this chapter by IDNR/OWR and FEMA,
responsibility is hereby delegated to the Village as per 92 Illinois
Administrative Code 708 or as otherwise recodified for construction in the
designated floodway and floodplain when floodways have not been defined in
sections
10-11-9 and
10-11-10 of this chapter. However, the following review approvals are not
delegated to the Village and shall require review or permits from IDNR/OWR:
      1.   Organizations which are exempt from this chapter, as per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      2.   Department of Transportation projects, dams or impoundment
structures as defined in section
10-11-3 of this chapter and all other State, Federal or local unit of
government projects, including projects of the Village and County, except for
those projects meeting the requirements of subsection
10-11-9I of this chapter;
      3.   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per subsection
10-11-9E3 of this chapter;
      4.   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to subsection
10-11-9E4 of this chapter;
      5.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in subsections
10-11-9E1, E2, and E8 of this chapter;
      6.   Permit issuance of structures within or over publicly navigable
rivers, lakes and streams;
      7.   Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway locations; and
      8.   Base flood elevation determinations where none now exist.
   K.   Cooperation With Other Agencies: Cooperate with State and Federal
floodplain management agencies to improve base flood or 100-year frequency
flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this chapter.
Submit data to IDNR/OWR and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for
proposed revisions of a regulatory map. Submit reports as required for the
National Flood Insurance Program. Notify the Federal Emergency Management
Agency of any proposed amendments to this chapter.
   L.   Promulgate Regulations: Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, subject however to
the review and approval of IDNR/OWR and FEMA for any chapter changes. (Ord. 17-
2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-6: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is based on the flood insurance study for
the Village. If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is
not available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best existing data available from Federal, State or other
sources. When a party disagrees with the best available data, they shall submit
a detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with better data
and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for review and consideration prior to any
development of the site.
   A.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
Flagg Creek shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
applicable FIS of Cook County prepared by FEMA dated August 19, 2008, and such
amendments to such study and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   B.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the Village or that may be annexed into the Village shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the FIS of Cook County prepared by
FEMA and dated August 19, 2008, and such amendments or revisions to such study
and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   C.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an "AH Zone" or "AO Zone" shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the Countywide flood insurance rate map of Cook County.
   D.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an "A Zone" on the Countywide flood insurance
rate map of Cook County shall be according to the best existing data available
from Federal, State or other sources. Should no other data exist, an
engineering study must be financed by the applicant to determine base flood
elevations. When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists,
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall
be determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-II, HEC-RAS, or a dynamic
model such as HIP. The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be
obtained from a hydrologic model, such as HEC-HMS, HEC-1, TR-20, or HIP, or by
techniques presented in various publications prepared by the United States
Geological Survey for estimating peak flood discharges. For a nonriverine SFHA,
the base flood elevation shall be the historic flood of record plus three feet
(3'), unless calculated by a detailed engineering study. For an unmapped
extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than 1 square mile) which has been
identified by the Village Engineer pursuant to section
10-11-5 of this chapter, the base flood elevation shall be determined by the
applicant utilizing a method as approved in this section. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-
2017)
10-11-7: OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation, and compensatory storage and other provisions of this chapter
are met. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe
shall meet the requirements of this section, along with the requirements of
section
10-11-12 of this chapter.
   A.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body
not exempted by State law shall commence any development in the SFHA without
first obtaining a development permit from the Village.
   B.   Application For Development Permit: Application for a development
permit shall be made on a form provided by the Village. The application shall
be accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions and legal description for the property and sealed by a licensed
engineer, architect or land surveyor; existing grade elevations in MSL, 1929
adjustment datum or NGVD and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or
filling; the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings. For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of section
10-11-12 of this chapter.
   C.   Review Of Application By Village Engineer: Upon receipt of a
development permit application, the Village shall compare the elevation of the
site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation. Any development
located on land that can be shown to be higher than the base flood elevation of
the current flood insurance rate map and which has not been filled after the
date of the site's first flood insurance rate map without a permit as required
by this chapter is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter. Conversely, any development located on land shown
to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically connected, but shown on
the current flood insurance rate map is subject to the provisions of this
chapter. The Village shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification. A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas
shall be submitted. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of
grading activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to
be implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
The Village shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of all
other Federal, State, and local permits, approvals or waivers that may be
required for this type of activity. The Village shall not issue a permit unless
all other Federal, State, and local permits have been obtained.
   D.   Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control Plan: A soil erosion and
sedimentation control plan for disturbed areas shall be submitted. This plan
shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and the
temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to mitigate
their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
   E.   Copies Of Other Required Permits: The Department of Code Enforcement
shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant, copies of all other
local, State and Federal permits, approvals or permit-not-required letters that
may be required for this type of activity. The Village shall not issue a permit
unless all other local, State and Federal permits have been obtained.
   F.   Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the flood fringe shall
create a threat to public health and safety.
   G.   Elevation Of Site: If fill is being used to elevate the site above the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit
sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for the
purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
   H.   Compensatory Storage: Whenever any portion of a floodplain is
authorized for use, the volume of space which will be occupied by the
authorized fill or structure below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be compensated for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent
volume of excavation taken from below the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to 1.5 times the
volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure. In the case of streams and
watercourses, such excavation shall be made opposite or adjacent to the areas
so filled or occupied. All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-
23-2017)
10-11-8: CONSTRUCTION OF THE LOWEST FLOOR BELOW THE BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE):
A person who has obtained a letter of map revision based on fill that removes a
site in the flood fringe from the floodplain due to the use of fill to elevate
the site above the BFE, may apply for a permit from the Village to construct
the lowest floor of a residential building below the BFE in the flood fringe.
The Village shall not issue such a permit unless the applicant has complied
with all the criteria set forth in the following subsections:
   A.   Compensatory storage shall be provided per subsection
10-11-7H of this chapter.
   B.   The elevation of the lowest opening in the basement wall (i.e., window
wells, accessways) shall be at or above the flood protection elevation (FPE).
   C.   The lowest adjacent grade to the foundation shall be at or above the
FPE, for a minimum distance of ten feet (10') beyond the outside face of the
structure. However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be
met, the Village may waive the ten foot (10') minimum setback if an Illinois
licensed professional engineer certifies that an alternative method to protect
the building from damage due to hydrostatic pressures has been met. The
certifications shall be in the form of a detailed soils and structural design
analysis, which shall be submitted to the Village for review. The Village may
require such additional documentation as necessary to prove that the proposed
shorter setback distance will keep the structure reasonably safe. In no case
shall the setback distance be less than four feet (4').
   D.   In the case of new construction that includes a basement complying with
the requirements of a simplified approach of seepage flow analysis under FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01, the grade around the perimeter of the structure,
measured at a distance of twenty feet (20') from the structure, shall be above
the BFE. However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be
obtained, the Village may waive the twenty foot (20') minimum setback distance
if an Illinois licensed professional engineer certifies that an alternative
method to protect the building from damages due to hydrostatic pressures has
been met using the engineered basement option of Technical Bulletin 10-01. A
detailed soils analysis and structural design proving that a shorter setback
distance will keep the structure reasonably safe from flooding shall be
submitted to the Village for review. In no case shall the setback distance be
less than four feet (4').
   E.   The ground around the building shall be compacted fill that meets all
requirements of this section and is at least five feet (5') thick under the
basement floor slab. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to require
the removal or replacement of fill that was placed as part of an LOMR-F, if
such fill consists of material, including soils of similar classification and
degree permeability, such as those classified as CH, CL, SC or ML according to
ASTM standard D-2487, classification of soils for engineering purposes.
   F.   The fill material must be homogeneous and isotropic; that is, the soil
must be all of one material, and the engineering properties must be the same in
all the directions.
   G.   All fill material and compaction shall be designed, certified and
inspected by an Illinois licensed professional engineer, as warranted by the
site conditions.
   H.   The basement floor shall be at an elevation that is no more than five
feet (5') below the BFE.
   I.   There shall be a granular drainage layer beneath the floor slab, and
minimum of one-fourth (1/4) horsepower sump pump with a backup power supply
shall be provided to remove seepage flow. The pump shall be rated at four (4)
times the estimated seepage rate and shall discharge above the BFE and away
from the building in order to prevent flooding of the basement or uplift of the
floor under the effect of the seepage pressure.
   J.   The drainage system shall be equipped with a positive means of
preventing backflow.
   K.   All foundation elements shall be designed to withstand hydrostatic
pressure in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
   L.   If the applicant is unable to meet all of the requirements set forth in
the preceding subsections of this section, the Village may allow the
construction of a basement below the BFE only if the applicant demonstrates
that the proposed fill and structure meet the guidelines and requirements set
forth in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01 and are reasonably safe from flooding.
In order to demonstrate that the proposed structure is reasonably safe from
flooding, the applicant shall submit a detailed engineering analysis of the
proposed fill and foundation wall. The engineered basement study shall be
completed in accordance with the latest edition of FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-
01, with the analysis of the fill being prepared by an Illinois licensed
professional engineer.
   M.   In order to provide the required compensatory storage on site, in no
case shall the depth of excavation in the front and side yards of the lot
exceed eighteen inches (18"), as measured from the previously existing natural
grade. The rear yard shall be permitted to have a greater depth of excavation,
if necessary. All such excavation shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse or storm sewer system. The use of mechanical means to
drain the compensatory storage area will not be permitted. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-
2017)
10-11-9: OCCUPATION AND USE OF IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS:
This section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site modification
or building modification within a designated floodway. The designated floodway
for Flagg Creek shall be as delineated on the designated floodway maps
designated by IDNR/OWR according and referenced in section
10-11-3 of this chapter and by the Cook County Countywide FIRM and FIS approved
August 19, 2008. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which meet
the criteria in this section. All floodway modifications shall be the minimum
necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project. The development shall also
meet the requirements of section
10-11-12 of this chapter.
   A.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by State law shall commence any development in a floodway without
first obtaining a development permit from the Village.
   B.   Application For Permit; Contents: Application for a development permit
shall be made on a form provided by the Village. The application shall include
the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the designated floodway map, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area.
      3.   Name of stream or body of water affected.
      4.   Description of proposed activity.
      5.   Statement of purpose of proposed activity.
      6.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity.
      7.   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant.
      8.   Signature of applicant or the applicant's agent.
      9.   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other authorized
officer shall sign the application form.
      10.   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form.
      11.   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign the
name of the trustee by him (her) as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit shall
be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust by
name and address and defining the respective interests therein.
      12.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as a
minimum:
         a.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
         b.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, location of any channels and any existing or future access roads,
distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), designated
floodway limit, floodplain limit, specifications and dimensions of any proposed
channel modifications, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow,
and a graphic or numerical scale;
         c.   Cross section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
         d.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance;
         e.   A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the designated floodway location.
      13.   Any and all other local, State and Federal permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
      14.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of subsection D of
this section.
      15.   If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA.
      16.   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings of
the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing ground
elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed excavation or
filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a registered
professional engineer, licensed architect or registered land surveyor; the
location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings
subject to the requirements of section
10-11-12 of this chapter.
      17.   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
         a.   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed work;
         b.   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative locations or
methods to accomplish the purpose of the proposed work;
         c.   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts the
project would have on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected;
         d.   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in subsection E of this section would have on
the physical and biological conditions of the body of water affected;
         e.   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project, considering
cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected.
   C.   Copies Of Other Required Permits: The Department of Code Enforcement
shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of all other
local, State and Federal permits and approvals that may be required for this
type of activity. The Village shall not issue the development permit unless all
required Federal and State permits have been obtained. A registered
professional engineer under the employ or contract of the Village shall review
and approve applications reviewed under this section.
   D.   Preventing Increased Damages And A List Of Appropriate Uses: The only
development in a floodway which will be allowed are appropriate uses, which
will not cause a rise in the base flood elevation, and which will not create a
damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or be a
threat to public health and safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic
and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or permanently impair
existing water quality or aquatic habitat.
Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as
called for in this chapter. Only those appropriate uses listed in 92 Illinois
Administrative Code 708 or as otherwise recodified will be allowed.
Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of any new
structures, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts, excavation or
channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise nonappropriate uses in the
floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act as a
fence) and storage of materials except as specifically defined above as an
appropriate use. The approved appropriate uses are as follows:
      1.   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
      2.   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring access
to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities, and
facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses;
      3.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls;
      4.   Underground and overhead utilities;
      5.   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems
including any related fencing (at least 50 percent open when viewed from any 1
direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including open
air pavilions;
      6.   Detached garages, storage sheds, or other nonhabitable accessory
structures without toilet facilities to existing buildings that will not block
flood flows, nor reduce floodway storage;
      7.   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification thereto;
      8.   Parking lots and any modifications thereto (where depth of flooding
at the 100-year frequency flood event will not exceed 1.0 feet) and aircraft
parking aprons built at or below ground elevation;
      9.   Designated floodway regrading, without fill, to create a positive
nonerosive slope toward a watercourse;
      10.   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and, which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure;
      11.   In the case of damaged or replacement buildings, reconstruction or
repairs made to a building that are valued at less than fifty percent (50%) of
the market value of the building before it was damaged or replaced, and which
do not increase the outside dimensions of the building;
      12.   Additions to existing buildings above the BFE that do not increase
the building's footprint and are valued at less than fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the building.
   E.   Engineering And Mitigation Criteria: Appropriate uses do not include
the construction or placement of any new structures, fill, building additions,
buildings on stilts, excavation or channel modifications done to accommodate
otherwise nonappropriate uses in the floodway, fencing (including landscaping
or planting designed to act as a fence) and storage of materials except as
specifically defined above as an appropriate use.
      1.   Preservation Of Flood Conveyance, So As Not To Increase Flood Stages
Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings, on
stream structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
         a.   Designated floodway conveyance,
   "K" = (1.486A*(R^2/3))/n
where "n" is Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective area of the cross
section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See "Open
Channel Hydraulics" by Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York.)
         b.   The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing and
proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a Federal,
State, or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover.
         c.   Transition sections shall be provided and used in calculations of
effective designated floodway conveyance. The following expansion and
contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to
IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt
transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
            (1)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
            (2)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's
length.
            (3)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction,
a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of
stream length shall be used.
            (4)   Transition sections shall be provided between cross sections
with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated floodway
delineation on adjacent properties.
            (5)   All cross sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
      2.   Preservation Of Floodway Storage So As Not To Increase Downstream
Flooding: Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated floodway
storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or structures
placed and the impact of any related flood control projects. Compensatory
storage for fill or structures shall be equal to at least 1.5 times the volume
of floodplain storage lost. Artificially created storage lost due to a
reduction in head loss behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed between the
proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood elevation. All
designated floodway storage lost below the existing 10-year flood elevation
shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All designated
floodway storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the location of the proposed
construction, the applicant's engineer shall demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through a
determination of flood discharges and water surface elevations that the
compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent. Finally, there shall be no
reduction in floodway surface area as a result of a floodway modification,
unless such modification is necessary to reduce flooding at existing structure.
      3.   Preservation Of Floodway Velocities So As Not To Increase Stream
Erosion Or Flood Heights: For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts
or on stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in
the average channel or designated floodway velocities or stage for all flood
events up to and including the 100-year frequency event. However in the case of
bridges or culverts or on stream structures built for the purpose of backing up
water in the stream during normal or flood flows, velocities may be increased
at the structure site if scour, erosion and sedimentation will be avoided by
the use of riprap or other design measures.
      4.   Construction Of New Bridges Or Culvert Crossings And Roadway
Approaches: The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of upstream
flood stages greater than one-tenth of one foot (0.1') when compared to the
existing conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year
frequency event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within
the channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or
within recorded flood easements. If the proposed construction will increase
upstream flood stages greater than one-tenth of one foot (0.1'), the developer
must contact IDNR/OWR, dam safety section for a dam safety permit or waiver.
         a.   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tailwater conditions for the flood study specified in section
10-11-6 of this chapter. Culverts must be analyzed using U.S. DOT, FHWA
hydraulic chart for the selection of highway culverts. Bridges must be analyzed
using the U.S. DOT/Federal Highway Administration hydraulics of bridge
waterways calculation procedures.
         b.   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per subsection E2
of this section.
         c.   Velocity increases must be mitigated per subsection E3 of this
section.
         d.   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is used for
recreational or commercial navigation, a Department of Transportation permit
must be received.
         e.   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge
showing the existing condition and proposed designated profile must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by
subsection E14 of this section.
         f.   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be
designed per subsection E8 of this section.
      5.   Reconstruction Or Modification Of Existing Bridges, Culverts, And
Approach Roads:
         a.   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than one-tenth of one foot
(0.1') increase in backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood
frequencies up to and including the 100-year event, if the existing structure
is not a source of flood damage.
         b.   If the existing bridge or culvert or roadway approach is a source
of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain, the
applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects of flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
         c.   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing is a
source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in accordance
with the Department of Transportation rules, 92 Illinois Administrative Code
708 (floodway construction in northeastern Illinois), or as otherwise
recodified, and submitted to the division for review and concurrence before a
permit is issued.
      6.   On Stream Structures Built For The Purpose Of Backing Up Water: Any
increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 feet when compared to the
existing conditions, for all flood events up to and including the 100-year
frequency event shall be contained within the channel banks (or within existing
vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within the design protection
grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within recorded flood easements. A
permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be obtained from
IDNR/OWR, dam safety section for a dam safety permit or waiver for any
structure built for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal
or flood flow. All dams and impoundment structures as defined in section
10-11-3 of this chapter shall meet the permitting requirements of 92 Illinois
Administrative Code 702 (construction and maintenance of dams), or as otherwise
recodified. If the proposed activity involves a modification of the channel or
floodway to accommodate an impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
         a.   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by
providing flood control, public recreation, or regional stormwater detention.
         b.   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous fish
species, which require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle,
such as for spawning.
         c.   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded water
quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual bank
slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation basin.
         d.   A nonpoint source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control.
         e.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
section.
      7.   Floodproofing Of Existing Habitable, Residential And Commercial
Structures: If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of the
existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no farther than ten feet (10') from the outside of the
building. Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be required for
floodproofing activities.
      8.   Excavation In The Floodway: When excavation is proposed in the
design of bridges and culvert openings, including the modifications to and
replacement of existing bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for
lost conveyance for other appropriate uses, transition sections shall be
provided for the excavation. The following expansion and contraction ratios
shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR through
engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be
used with the same efficiency:
         a.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section,
the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length;
         b.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
(1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length; and
         c.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream
length shall be used.
         d.   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream and
downstream of the transition sections.
      9.   Channel Modifications; When Allowed: If the proposed activity
involves a channel modification, it shall be demonstrated that:
         a.   There are no practicable alternatives to the activity which would
accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the body
of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank stabilization,
floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from the
floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel or the establishment of a
stream side buffer strip or greenbelt.
Channel modification is acceptable if the purpose is to restore natural
conditions and improve water quality and fish and wildlife habitat.
         b.   Water quality, habitat, and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values.
         c.   The activity has been planned and designed and will be
constructed in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural
conditions of the body of water affected, consistent with the following
criteria:
            (1)   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall
match as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross
section, slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously
modified, restoration of more natural physical conditions should be
incorporated into channel modification design, where practical.
            (2)   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at both
the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they will
prevent erosion.
            (3)   One sided construction of a channel shall be used when
feasible. Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one
side of the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization
effects of the vegetation.
            (4)   Clearing of vegetation shall be limited to that which is
essential for construction of the channel.
            (5)   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no
steeper than three to one (3:1) horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable.
Natural vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, natural rock or riprap are preferred
materials. Artificial materials such as concrete, gabions, or construction
rubble should be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
            (6)   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover.
            (7)   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom
diversity such as deep pools, riffles, and other similar features, such
features shall be provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and
flow characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established,
where appropriate.
            (8)   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end of
the modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality.
            (9)   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and all
items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel.
            (10)   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the
channel enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless
necessitated by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is
justified as part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project.
            (11)   Unless the modification is for a public flood control
project, there shall be no reduction in the volume of floodwater storage
outside the floodway as a result of the modification.
         d.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
section.
      10.   Seeding And Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
      11.   Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Measures: For all activities in the
floodway, including grading, filling, and excavation in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
         a.   The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the maximum
vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the time soil
is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural vegetation be
destroyed, removed, or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to the
initiation of improvements.
         b.   Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be applied to
denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization shall be
provided within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any portion
of the site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas which may not be at
final grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60) days.
         c.   Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion ditches
and sediment basins.
         d.   A vegetated buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25') in
width shall be preserved and/or reestablished, where possible, along existing
channels (see subsection E9 of this section). Construction vehicle use of
channels shall be minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be constructed,
where necessary, to minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or along
channels shall be restabilized immediately.
         e.   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be designed
and implemented consistent with "Procedures and Standards for Urban Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Illinois" (1988 and as amended) also known
as the "Green Book" and "Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and
Sediment Control" (IEPA, 1987 and as amended).
      12.   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control projects,
the permitting requirements of this section will be considered met if the
applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through hydraulic and hydrologic
calculations that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively
result in increased flood heights outside the project right-of-way or easements
for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
      13.   General Criteria For Analysis Of Flood Elevations:
         a.   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated
floodway study, referenced in section
10-11-6 of this chapter, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If
the study data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR/OWR
shall be contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base
conditions data to use.
         b.   If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of the
proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet the requirements of this section for the 100-year frequency flood
elevations of the designated floodway conditions and conditions with the
receiving stream at normal water elevations.
         c.   If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments, or a
private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
      14.   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision: If the appropriate use would
result in a change in the designated floodway location or the 100-year
frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit to IDNR/OWR and to FEMA
all the information, calculations and documents necessary to be issued a
conditional designated floodway map revision and receive from IDNR/OWR a
conditional approval of the designated floodway change before a permit is
issued. However, the final designated floodway map will not be changed by IDNR/
OWR until as built plans or record drawings are submitted and accepted by FEMA
and IDNR/OWR.
In the case of nongovernment projects, the municipality in incorporated areas
and the county in unincorporated areas shall concur with the proposed
conditional designated floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval can be
given. No filling, grading, dredging or excavating shall take place until a
conditional approval is issued. No further development activities shall take
place until a final letter of map revision (LOMR) is issued by FEMA and IDNR/
OWR.
      15.   Professional Engineer's Supervision: All engineering analyses shall
be performed by or under the supervision of a registered professional engineer.
      16.   Construction Near Channel; Criteria: For all activities in the
floodway involving construction within twenty five feet (25') of the channel,
the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within at
least twenty five feet (25') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
         b.   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
         c.   The use of native riparian vegetation is preferred in the buffer
strip. Access through this buffer strip shall be provided, when necessary, for
stream maintenance purposes.
After receipt of conditional approval of the designated floodway change and
issuance of a permit and a conditional letter of map revision, construction as
necessary to change the floodway designation may proceed but no buildings or
structures or other construction that is not an appropriate use may be placed
in that area until the designated floodway map is changed and a final letter of
map revision is received. The designated floodway map will be revised upon
acceptance and concurrence by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the "as built" plans.
   F.   State Review: For those projects listed below located in a designated
floodway, the following criteria shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for their
review and concurrence and/or permit prior to the issuance of a permit by a
community or County delegated State permitting authority in the floodway:
      1.   IDNR/OWR will review an engineer's analysis of the flood profile due
to a proposed bridge pursuant to subsection E of this section.
      2.   IDNR/OWR will review an engineer's determination that an existing
bridge or culvert crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis
indicating the proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection E of this
section.
      3.   IDNR/OWR will review alternative transition sections and
hydraulically equivalent storage pursuant to subsection E of this section.
   G.   Other Permits: In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is
not required from IDNR/OWR, issued pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/5 et seq. No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if the division has
delegated this responsibility to the Village.
   H.   Dam Safety Permits: Any work involving the construction, modification
or removal of a "dam" as defined in section
10-11-3 of this chapter per 92 Illinois Administrative Code 702 (rules for
construction of dams) or as otherwise recodified shall obtain an Illinois
Division of Water Resources dam safety permit prior to the start of
construction of a dam. If the Village finds a dam that does not have an IDNR/
OWR permit, the Village shall immediately notify the dam safety section of the
Division of Water Resources.
If the Village finds a dam which is believed to be in unsafe condition, the
Village shall immediately notify the owner of the dam, IDNR/OWR, dam safety
section in Bartlett and the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA).
   I.   Activities That Do Not Require A Registered Professional Engineer's
Review: The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer's review. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this chapter, including the mitigation requirements.
      1.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
         a.   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations, or
         b.   Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the
floodway, or
         c.   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the pipe
or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
streambed, and
         d.   In the case of overhead utilities, no supporting towers are
placed in the watercourse and are designed in such a fashion as not to catch
debris.
      2.   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls that:
         a.   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope, and
         b.   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation, and
         c.   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
      3.   Construction of sidewalks, athletic fields (excluding fences),
properly anchored playground equipment and patios at grade.
      4.   Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
         a.   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
         b.   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of bank.
         c.   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross sectional area
of the stream channel or bank of the lake.
         d.   Vegetative stabilization and gradual side slopes are the
preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high channel
velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of alternative
stabilization measures, natural rock or riprap are preferred materials.
Artificial materials such as concrete, construction rubble and gabions should
be avoided unless there are no practicable alternatives.
      5.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
         a.   The approach roads will be one-half foot (0.5') or less above
natural grade.
         b.   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up
the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall invert.
         c.   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two
feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be
nonerosive material, such as riprap or gravel.
         d.   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise stabilized
as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of construction.
         e.   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within
one year after authorization. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-10: OCCUPATION AND USE OF SFHA AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE NOT IDENTIFIED:
In SFHAs or floodplains, where no floodways have been identified and no base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevations have been established by FEMA, and
draining more than a square mile, no development shall be permitted unless the
cumulative effect of the proposals, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated uses and structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the
flow and passage of the floodwaters nor significantly increase the base flood
or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
   A.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body,
not exempted by State law, shall commence any development in an SFHA or
floodplain without first obtaining a development permit from the Village.
Application for a development permit shall be made on a form provided by the
Village.
The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn to scale
showing property line dimensions; and existing grade elevations and all changes
in grade resulting from excavation or filling, sealed by a licensed engineer,
architect or surveyor; the location and dimensions of all buildings and
additions to buildings; and the elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
10-11-12 of this chapter.
The application for a development permit shall also include the following
information:
      1.   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose, and
intended use.
      2.   Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area.
      3.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity.
      4.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as a
minimum:
         a.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
         b.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the
proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body of water),
floodplain limit, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow, and
a graphical or numerical scale;
         c.   Cross section views of the project and engineering study research
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphical or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical); and
         d.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
      5.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of subsection D of this
section.
      6.   Any and all other local, State and Federal permits or approvals that
may be required for this type of development.
   B.   Development Site Elevation: Based on the best available existing data
according to the Illinois State Water Survey's floodplain information
repository, the Village Engineer shall compare the elevation of the site to the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation. Should no elevation
information exist for the site, the developer's engineer shall calculate the
elevation according to subsection
10-11-6D of this chapter. Any development located on land that can be shown to
have been higher than the base flood elevation as of the site's first flood
insurance rate map identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not
subject to the requirements of this chapter. The Department of Code Enforcement
shall maintain documentation of the existing ground elevation at the
development site and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to
the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map identification.
   C.   Copies Of Other Required Permits: The Department of Code Enforcement
shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of all other
local, State, and Federal permits, approvals or permit-not-required letters
that may be required for this type of activity. The Village shall not issue the
development permit unless all required local, State and Federal permits have
been obtained.
   D.   Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the SFHA, where a
floodway has not been determined shall create a damaging or potentially
damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health,
safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
the floodway or channel, or impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat.
Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as
called for in this chapter.
   E.   Riverine SFHAs; Standards: Within all riverine SFHAs where the floodway
has not been determined, the following standards shall apply:
      1.   Engineering Requirements: The developer shall have a registered
professional engineer state in writing and show through supporting plans,
calculations, and data that the project meets the engineering requirements of
subsections
10-11-9E1 through E13 of this chapter, for the entire floodplain as calculated
under the provisions of subsection
10-11-6D of this chapter. As an alternative, the developer should have an
engineering study performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering
study to IDNR/OWR for acceptance as a designated floodway. Upon acceptance of
their floodway by the department, the developer shall then demonstrate that the
project meets the requirements of section
10-11-9 of this chapter for the designated floodway. The "floodway" shall be
defined according to the definition in section
10-11-3 of this chapter.
      2.   IDNR/OWR Permit: A development permit shall not be issued unless the
applicant first obtains a permit from IDNR/OWR or written documentation that a
permit is not required from IDNR/OWR.
      3.   IDNR/OWR Permit Requirement Exception: No permit from IDNR/OWR shall
be required if the division has delegated permit responsibility to the Village
per 92 Illinois Administrative Code, part 708 or as otherwise recodified for
designated floodways, per IDNR/OWR Statewide permit entitled "construction in
floodplains with no designated floodways in northeastern Illinois".
      4.   Dam Safety Permits: Any work involving the construction,
modification or removal of a "dam" as defined in section
10-11-3 of this chapter shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of
construction of a dam. If the Village finds a dam that does not have an IDNR/
OWR permit, the Village shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR Bartlett Office.
If the Village finds a dam which is believed to be in unsafe condition, the
Village shall immediately notify the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett
Office, and the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA).
      5.   Activities Allowed Without Engineer Review: The following activities
may be permitted without a licensed professional engineer's review or
calculation of base flood elevation and designated floodway. Such activities
shall still meet the other requirements of this chapter.
         a.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 2.
         b.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide permit number 3.
         c.   Aerial utility crossings meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
permit number 4.
         d.   Minor boat docks meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit
number 5.
         e.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide permit number 6; activities (not involving fill or positive change in
grade) are covered by this permit.
         f.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 7.
         g.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 8.
         h.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide permit number 9.
         i.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 10.
         j.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide permit number 11.
         k.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widenings
meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide permit number 12.
         l.   Temporary construction activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide permit number 13.
         m.   Special uses of public waters meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide permit number 14.
         n.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from State floodway permit
requirements.
         o.   The flood carrying capacity of any altered or relocated
watercourse shall be maintained.
   F.   Compensatory Storage: Whenever any portion of a floodplain is
authorized for use, the volume of space which will be occupied by the
authorized fill or structure below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be compensated for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent
volume of excavation taken from below the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-
fourth (1.25) times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure. In
the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be made opposite or
adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied. All floodplain storage lost below
the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-
year flood elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the
watercourse. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-11: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL DEVELOPMENTS:
This section applies to all proposed development, redevelopment, site
modification, building modification or grading within the Village of Western
Springs that do not meet the requirements for submittal under article 3 of the
WMO. Activities not covered by the requirements of this section include, but
are not limited to: driveway repair, fence construction and deck construction
under one hundred (100) square feet. A proposed development, redevelopment,
site modification, building modification or grading subject to this chapter,
but not the WMO, shall not be approved until and unless a grading plan and
erosion control plan are submitted and approved as set forth in this section.
   A.   Grading Plan: A stormwater management grading plan showing the proposed
grading of the site will be required for all development, redevelopment, site
modification, building modification or grading of any property within the
Village. The proposed grading of the site must be designed and constructed
incorporating Best Management Practices into the site design to minimize
increased runoff rates, volumes, and pollutant loads so as to assure that the
proposed grading: 1) does not increase the flood or drainage hazards to others;
2) does not create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion; 3) does not
increase flood damage to existing and proposed buildings due to stormwater; and
4) accomplishes the other specific purposes listed in subsection
10-11-1D of this chapter.
      1.   A development permit is required for development, redevelopment,
site modification, building modification or grading as provided for in this
section in the Village.
      2.   An application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Village. An application which does not involve restricting the
release rate of stormwater from the site should be accompanied by a stormwater
management grading plan.
      3.   The submittal shall include sufficient information to evaluate the
environmental characteristics of the property, the potential adverse impacts of
the proposed development, redevelopment, site modification, building
modification or grading on site water resources both upstream and downstream,
and on the adjacent properties; and the effectiveness of the proposed drainage
plan with the incorporation of Best Management Practices in managing stormwater
runoff and to assure that site modification does not increase the drainage or
flood hazard to other properties. "Best Management Practices" are defined as
design, construction, and maintenance practices and criteria for stormwater
facilities that minimize the impact of stormwater runoff rates and volume,
prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
      4.   The applicant shall certify on the drawings that all clearing,
grading, drainage, and construction shall be accomplished in strict conformance
with the stormwater management grading plan.
      5.   An application which involves restricting the release rate of
stormwater from the site shall be accompanied by both a stormwater management
grading plan as described above and a stormwater management detention plan. The
stormwater management detention plan shall include design plans and
calculations conforming to the requirements listed in subsections B through F
of this section. The Village Engineer may impose a site volume control
condition on any permit granted pursuant to this section.
   B.   Erosion Control Plan: All applications for a development permit shall
be accompanied by a soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance,
and shall also include the following:
      1.   Topographic Map:
         a.   Survey: A topographic survey of the property and areas upstream
and downstream necessary to determine off site impacts of the proposed drainage
plan at one foot (1') contours. The map shall be keyed to the USGS datum.
         b.   Official Bench Mark System: There is hereby established a system
of points or marks of known elevations above the mean sea datum of New York
City (NAVD 1988) from which elevations shall hereafter be taken by engineers,
surveyors, architects and contractors when making topographical surveys and
maps and setting grade and elevations for buildings, pavements, drainage
facilities and other structures or work publicly built or regulated by the
Village. Those bench marks shall be clearly shown on any pertinent drawings
submitted to the Village. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant for a
building permit to establish and certify these points unless already
established by the Village.
      2.   Environmental Features: A depiction of environmental features of the
property and immediate vicinity including the following:
         a.   The limits of wetland areas;
         b.   Any designated natural areas; and
         c.   Any proposed environmental mitigation features.
      3.   Drainage System: A depiction of existing and proposed drainage
system features of the property and immediate vicinity including the following
information, if applicable:
         a.   The banks and centerline of streams and channels;
         b.   Shoreline of lakes, ponds, and detention basins;
         c.   Farm drains and tiles;
         d.   Watershed boundaries within the property;
         e.   The property's location within stream or river watersheds;
         f.   Location, size and slope of stormwater conduits;
         g.   Sanitary or combined sewers;
         h.   Depressional storage areas;
         i.   Delineation of upstream and downstream drainage features and
watersheds which might be affected by the development;
         j.   Detention facilities;
         k.   Roads and streets and associated stormwater inlets;
         l.   Base flood elevation, and designated floodway where identified
for the property; and
         m.   Basis of design for the final drainage network components.
   C.   Detention:
      1.   The maximum available storage to be provided in a detention basin
shall be based on the runoff from the 100-year, 24-hour event and reservoir
(also called modified plus or level pool) routing or equivalent.
         a.   Wet Basins: Wet detention basins shall be designed to remove
stormwater pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing, and as much as
feasible to be available for recreational use.
            (1)   Wet Basin Depths: Wet basins shall be at least three feet
(3') deep, excluding nearshore banks and safety ledges. If fish habitat is to
be provided they shall be at least ten feet (10') deep over twenty five percent
(25%) of the bottom area to prevent winter freeze out.
            (2)   Permanent Pool Volume: The permanent pool volume in a wet
basin at normal depth shall be equal to the runoff volume from its watershed
for the 2-year event.
            (3)   Nuisance Control: Wet basins shall be designed in a manner
which will reduce as much as practicable nuisance problems such as algae and
waterfowl.
         b.   Dry Basins: Dry basins shall be designed to remove stormwater
pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing and as much as feasible to
be available for multiple uses.
            (1)   Dry Basin Drainage: Dry basins shall be designed so that
eighty percent (80%) of their bottom area shall have standing water no longer
than seventy two (72) hours for any runoff event less than the 100-year event.
Underdrains directed to the outlet control shall be used if required to
accomplish this requirement.
            (2)   Dry Basin Water Quality: All dry detention basins shall be
designed to remove stormwater pollutants. Peak dry detention basin release rate
shall be no greater than ten one-hundredths (0.10) cfs per acre for all runoff
volumes less than or equal to the runoff from the 100-year, 24-hour rainfall
for the developed property.
      2.   Streets: Streets are not to be used for the storage of excess
stormwater, ponding depths shall not encroach more than three feet (3') on the
adjacent traffic lane and shall not remain flooded for more than eight (8)
hours for any event less than or equal to the 100-year event.
      3.   Safety: The drainage system components, especially all detention
basins, shall be designed to protect the safety of any children or adults
coming in contact with the system during runoff events.
         a.   Shorelines: The shorelines of all detention basins at 100-year
capacity shall be as level as practicable to prevent accidental falls into the
basin and for stability and ease of maintenance. Shorelines shall not have
greater than three to one (3:1) (horizontal to vertical) slope.
         b.   Banks: The side slopes of the banks of both wet and dry detention
basins shall not be steeper than three to one (3:1).
         c.   Safety Ledge: All wet detention basins shall have a level safety
ledge extending ten feet (10') into the basin from the shoreline and three feet
(3') below the normal water depth. The ledge shall be pitched to the shoreline
at four percent (4%).
         d.   Velocity: Velocities throughout the drainage system shall be
controlled to safe levels taking into consideration rates and depths of flow.
         e.   Overflow Structures: All stormwater detention basins shall be
provided with an overflow structure capable of safely passing flows from the
probable maximum storm. The elevation of the overflow structure shall be at six
inches (6") above the high water level of the basin. The elevations of
emergency overflow structure shall be nine inches (9") above the high water
level.
      4.   Infiltration Practices: Infiltration practices including basins,
trenches, and porous pavement shall only be allowed in soils considered "A" or
"B" by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service. Infiltration practices shall not be
located within seventy five feet (75') of a water supply well or a building
foundation. A sediment settling basin shall be provided to remove coarse
sediment from stormwater flows before they reach infiltration basins or
trenches. Stormwater shall not be allowed to stand more than seventy two (72)
hours over eighty percent (80%) of a dry basin's bottom area for the maximum
design event to be exfiltrated. The bottom of infiltration facilities shall be
a minimum of four feet (4') above seasonally high ground water and bedrock.
      5.   Detention In Floodplains: The placement of detention basins within
the floodplain is strongly discouraged because of questions about their
reliable operation during flood events. However, the stormwater detention
requirements of this chapter may be fulfilled by providing detention storage
within flood fringe areas on the project site provided the following provisions
are met:
         a.   Detention In Flood Fringe Areas: The placement of a detention
basin in a flood fringe area shall require compensatory storage for one and
one-fourth (1.25) times the volume below the base flood elevation occupied by
the detention basin including any berms. The release from the detention storage
provided shall still be controlled consistent with the requirements of
subsection C1b(2) of this section.
The applicant shall certify its operation for all stream flow and floodplain
backwater conditions. Excavations for compensatory storage along streams and
watercourses shall be opposite or adjacent to the area occupied by detention.
All floodplain storage lost below the 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced
below the 10-year flood elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the
existing 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year
flood elevation. All compensatory storage excavations shall be constructed to
drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
         b.   Detention Basins In Floodways: Detention basins shall not be
placed in the floodway.
         c.   On Stream Detention: On stream detention basins are allowable if
they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other provisions of
this chapter with respect to water quality and control of the events less than
or equal to the 100-year, 24-hour event from the property. Further discussion
is presented in subsection C6 of this section. If on stream detention is used
for watersheds larger than one square mile, it is recommended that the
applicant use dynamic modeling to demonstrate that the design will not increase
stage for any properties upstream or downstream of the property. Also,
impoundment of the stream as part of on stream detention:
            (1)   Shall not prevent the migration of indigenous fish species,
which require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle, such as for
spawning;
            (2)   Shall not cause or contribute to the degradation of water
quality or stream aquatic habitat;
            (3)   Shall include a design calling for gradual bank slopes,
appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation basin; and
            (4)   Shall comply with 92 Illinois Administrative Code part 708 or
as otherwise recodified and the other appropriate sections of this chapter.
      6.   Water Quality:
         a.   Length To Width Ratio: All detention basins shall have a length
to width ratio of at least three to one (3:1) as measured along the
longitudinal axis of flow.
         b.   Inlet And Outlet Orientation: As much as feasible, the distance
between detention inlets and outlets shall be maximized. If possible, they
should be at opposite ends of the basin.
         c.   Velocity Dissipation: Baffles or berms should be placed
perpendicular to the direction of flow through a detention basin to reduce
velocity and prevent scour.
      7.   Maintenance: The stormwater drainage system shall be designed to
minimize and facilitate maintenance. Turfed side slopes shall be designed to
allow lawn mowing equipment to easily negotiate them. Wet basins shall be
provided with alternate outflows which can be used to completely drain the pool
for sediment removal. Presedimentation basins shall be considered for
localizing sediment deposition and removal. Access for heavy equipment shall be
provided.
      8.   Detention In Wetlands:
         a.   Modifications; Compliance With Regulations: Existing wetlands
shall not be modified for the purposes of stormwater detention unless it is
demonstrated that the existing wetland is low in quality and the proposed
modifications will maintain or improve its habitat and water quality.
            (1)   In addition, fill shall not be placed in the wetland and a
long term monitoring and maintenance agreement shall be established to ensure
that the modified wetland/detention facility continues to provide wetland
functions.
         b.   Protection Of Wetlands: Wetlands shall be protected from the
adverse changes in runoff quality and quantity associated with land
developments. In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, the
following mitigation criteria shall be met for all developments whose drainage
flows into wetlands:
            (1)   The existing wetland shall be protected during construction
by appropriate soil erosion and sediment control measures and shall not be
filled.
            (2)   All runoff from the development shall be routed through a
preliminary detention/sedimentation basin designed to capture the 2-year, 24-
hour event and hold it for at least twenty four (24) hours, before being
discharged to the wetland. This basin shall be constructed before property
grading begins. In addition, the drainage hierarchy defined in subsection
10-11-1E of this chapter should be followed to minimize runoff volumes and
rates being discharged to the wetland.
            (3)   A buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25') in width,
preferably vegetated with native plant species, shall be maintained around the
periphery of the wetland.
   D.   Flows From Tributary Areas: Stormwater runoff from areas tributary to
the property shall be considered in the design of the property's drainage
system.
      1.   Upstream Areas Not Meeting Requirements Of This Chapter: When there
are areas not meeting the storage and release rates of this chapter, tributary
to the applicant's property, regionalized detention on the applicant's property
shall be explored by the applicant. The following steps shall be followed:
         a.   The applicant shall compute the storage volume needed for his
property using the release rates of subsection C1b(2) of this section, the
applicant's property area and the procedures described in subsection
10-11-7H, 10-11-9E2 or 10-11-10F of this chapter as applicable.
         b.   Areas tributary to the applicant's property, not meeting the
storage and release rate requirements of this chapter shall be identified.
         c.   Using the areas calculated in subsections D1a and D1b of this
section shall be added together to determine total storage required.
Allowable release rates shall be computed using the combined property areas.
Storage shall be computed as described in subsection C of this section. If
tributary areas are not developed, a reasonable fully developed land cover
shall be assumed for the purposes of computing storage.
Once the necessary combined storage is computed, the Village may choose to pay
for oversizing the applicant's detention basin to accommodate the regional
flows. The applicant's responsibility will be limited to the storage for his
property as computed in subsection D1a of this section.
If regional storage is selected by the Village, then the design produced in
subsection D1c of this section shall be implemented.
If regional storage is rejected by the Village the applicant must route them
through his basin. The peak release rate for the applicant's property will not
be exceeded given the combined inflow of the areas determined in subsection D1b
of this section plus the applicant's property until the required storage
calculated in subsection D1a of this section has been provided. The overflow
structure must be designed to accommodate the maximum bypass flows after the
required storage has been provided.
      2.   Upstream Areas Meeting Requirements Of This Chapter: When there are
areas which meet the storage and release rate requirements of this chapter
tributary to the applicant's property, the upstream flows shall either be
bypassed around the applicant's detention basin or be routed through the
applicant's detention basin at the discretion of the Village. Storage needed
for the applicant's property shall still be computed as described in subsection
D1a of this section. However, if the Village decides to route tributary area
flows through an applicant's basin, the design stormwater final releases shall
be based on the combined total of the applicant's restricted releases plus
tributary areas restricted releases.
   E.   Early Completion Of Detention Facilities: Where detention, retention,
or depressional storage areas are to be used as part of the drainage system for
a property, they shall be completed before general property grading begins.
This is to ensure that if soil erosion and sediment control practices are not
adequately implemented, any eroded sediment will be captured in these areas and
will have to be removed by the applicant before project completion.
   F.   Maintenance: Maintenance of stormwater drainage facilities located on
private property shall be the responsibility of the owner of that property.
Before the appropriate permit is obtained from the Village, the applicant shall
execute a maintenance agreement with the Village guaranteeing that the
applicant and all future owners of the property will maintain its stormwater
drainage system.
The maintenance agreement shall also specifically authorize representatives of
the Village to enter onto the property for the purpose of inspections of the
drainage system. Such agreement shall be recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of
Cook County. The maintenance agreement shall include a schedule for regular
maintenance of each aspect of the property's stormwater drainage system and
shall provide for access to the system for inspection by authorized personnel
of the Village. The maintenance agreement shall also stipulate that if the
appropriate authorized personnel of the Village notify the property owner in
writing of maintenance problems which require correction, the property owner
shall make such corrections within thirty (30) calendar days of such
notification. If the corrections are not made within this time period, the
Village may have the necessary work completed and assess the cost to the
property owner.
The Village has the option of requiring a bond to be filed by the property
owner for maintenance of the stormwater drainage system.
   G.   Inspections During Construction: General site grading shall not begin
until the Department of Code Enforcement of the Village has certified in
writing to the applicant that any necessary detention facilities are in place
and operational. The Department of Code Enforcement or his representative will
also conduct periodic inspections of the work in progress to be certain that
the drainage system is being built as designed. If any violations of the
provisions or requirements of this chapter are noted during such inspections,
the Village shall notify the property owner in writing of the items needing
correction.
The property owner shall have ten (10) calendar days to make such corrections
unless given a specific extension of time in writing by the Village. Failure to
complete such corrections within the specified time period shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   H.   Final Inspection: Upon notification by the applicant that the drainage
system is completed, the Department of Code Enforcement shall conduct a final
inspection. If the drainage system is found to contain deficiencies which
require correction, the Department of Code Enforcement shall notify the
property owner of the necessary corrections. The property owner shall correct
such deficiencies within ten (10) calendar days unless given a specific
extension of time in writing by the Department of Code Enforcement. Failure to
make necessary corrections within the specified time period shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. Upon finding that the drainage system meets the
provisions and requirements of this chapter, the Department of Code Enforcement
shall issue in writing a notice of drainage system completion to the property
owner.
   I.   Routine Inspections: All privately owned drainage systems shall be
inspected by representatives of the Village not less often than once per year.
A written report shall be filed of the results of any inspection and a copy
sent to the property owner detailing any problems which need correction. (Ord.
17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-12: PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS:
In addition to the requirements found in sections
10-11-7,
10-11-9, and
10-11-10 of this chapter for development in flood fringes, designated
floodways, and SFHA or floodplains where no floodways have been identified
(Zones A, AO, AH, AE, A1-A30, A99, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M, E, D or X), the
following requirements shall be met:
   A.   Public Health Standards:
      1.   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants or other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE.
      2.   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and on site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all
manholes or other aboveground openings located below the FPE are watertight.
   B.   Carrying Capacity And Notification: For all projects involving channel
modification, fill, or stream maintenance (including levees), the flood
carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be maintained. In addition, the
Village shall notify adjacent communities in writing thirty (30) days prior to
the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of the watercourse.
   C.   Protecting Buildings: All new construction located within a 100-year
floodplain, also known as an SFHA, shall be protected from flood damage below
the flood protection elevation. New construction located within a designated
floodway shall also meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards
included in section
10-11-9 of this chapter. All new construction in or within one hundred feet
(100') of an SFHA shall upon completion submit to the Village, an NFIP
elevation certificate, in accordance with the NFIP guidelines.
      1.   This building protection criteria applies to the following
situations:
         a.   Construction or placement of a new building;
         b.   A structural alteration to an existing building that either
increases the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%) or the
building's market value by more than fifty percent (50%);
         c.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This building protection requirement
does not apply to returning a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied
before it was removed to avoid flood damage; and
         d.   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days.
      2.   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods:
         a.   A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent landfill in accordance with the following:
            (1)   The lowest floor, (including basement) shall be at or above
the flood protection elevation.
            (2)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot
(1') deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond
the foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection
elevation. The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection elevation.
However, the ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural engineer
certifies an alternative method to protect the building from damages due to
hydrostatic pressures. The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour.
The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface drainage from or onto
neighboring properties.
         b.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
            (1)   Building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
stilts, piles, walls or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwater
and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base flood or 100-
year frequency flood.
            (2)   The permanent openings shall be no more than one foot (1')
above grade, and consists of a minimum of two (2) openings. The openings must
have a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation.
            (3)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris.
            (4)   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage. The lowest floor (including
basement) and all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at or above the
flood protection elevation. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone
lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be
located below the flood protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            (5)   No area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
for storage of items or materials.
            (6)   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation; and, shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the rules
and regulations for the Illinois Mobile Home Tiedown Act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois Administrative Code 870.
         c.   Only a nonresidential building may be structurally floodproofed
(in lieu of elevation) provided that a registered professional engineer shall
certify that the building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the
flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant utility facilities are
watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood.
            (1)   The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice.
            (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity. (Levees, berms,
floodwalls and similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose
of this subsection.)
         d.   Nonconforming structures located in a designated floodway may
remain in use, but may not be enlarged, replaced or structurally altered. A
nonconforming structure damaged by flood, fire, wind or other natural or
manmade disaster may be restored unless the damage exceeds fifty percent (50%)
of its market value before it was damaged, in which case it shall conform to
this chapter. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-13: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The Village Board shall take into account flood hazards to the extent that they
are known in all official actions related to land management, use and
development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements, and
planned unit developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure
that the proposed developments are consistent with sections
10-11-7 through
10-11-12 of this chapter and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans
for new subdivisions, mobile home parks and planned unit developments (PUDs)
shall include a signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
plat or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act.
   B.   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel trailer
parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured home
parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations. Where this
information is not available from an existing study filed with the Illinois
State Water Survey, the applicant's engineer shall be responsible for
calculating the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation per subsection
10-11-6D of this chapter and the floodway delineation per the definition in
section
10-11-3 of this chapter and submitting it to the State Water Survey and IDNR/
OWR for review and approval as best available regulatory data.
   C.   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
   D.   The Village Board shall not approve any planned unit development (PUD)
or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits unless such
agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-14: VARIANCES:
No variances from the WMO shall be granted by the Village without district
approval. No variances from this chapter shall be granted by the Village to any
development located in a "designated floodway" as defined in section
10-11-3 of this chapter. However, when a development proposal is located
outside of a designated floodway, and whenever the standards of this chapter
place undue hardship on a specific development proposal, the applicant may
apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a variance. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall review the applicant's request for a variance and shall submit
its recommendation to the Village Board.
   A.   Appeal Board:
      1.   The Western Springs Zoning Board as established by the Village shall
hear requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter or instances
in which it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or
determination made by the Village Engineer in the enforcement or administration
of this chapter and shall make a recommendation regarding such variance to the
Village Board.
      2.   In passing upon such applications, the Western Springs Zoning Board
and Village Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
         a.   Danger that materials may be swept into other lands to the injury
of others;
         b.   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
         c.   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
         e.   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   Availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
         h.   Relationship of the proposed use of the Comprehensive Plan and
Floodplain Management Program of that area;
         i.   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
         j.   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and the
         k.   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
      3.   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection A2 of this section
and the purpose of this chapter, the Western Springs Zoning Board may recommend
and the Village Board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances
as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter.
      4.   The Village Engineer shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions, including technical information, and report any variances to the
Federal Insurance Administration upon request.
   B.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of record one- half (1/2) acre
or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level, providing items in this section have
been fully considered. As the lot increases beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      2.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed in the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
      3.   Variance shall not be granted unless the applicant demonstrates
that:
         a.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
         b.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
         c.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
         d.   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
         e.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
         f.   The provisions of subsection
10-11-7F of this chapter are met; and
         g.   The provisions of subsection
10-11-10D of this chapter are met.
      4.   The Village shall notify an applicant in writing that a variance
from the requirements of this chapter that would lessen the degree of
protection to a building will:
         a.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts that may be as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred
dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
         b.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
         c.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
Variances requested in connection with restoration of a site or building listed
on the National Register of Historical Places or documented as worthy of
preservation by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency may be granted using
criteria more permissive than the requirements of subsections A and B of this
section. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-15: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods or study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside of the SFHA,
will be free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on
the part of the Village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-16: FAILURE TO COMPLY; FINES:
Failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter or to obtain a permit
for development in the SFHA or failure to comply with the requirements of a
permit or conditions of a variance resolution shall be deemed to be a violation
of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Village Attorney may determine
that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exist. The Village
Attorney shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The Village may make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00).
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The Village may record a notice of violation of this chapter to the
property.
   B.   The Village shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the Village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-2017)
10-11-17: APPLICATION TO OTHER REGULATIONS, COVENANTS AND EASEMENTS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other
chapters, easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. This chapter
is intended to repeal the original chapter or resolution which was adopted to
meet the National Flood Insurance Program regulations, but is not intended to
repeal the resolution which the Village passed in order to establish initial
eligibility for the program. (Ord. 17-2866, 1-23-2017)
CHAPTER 12
SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Municipal And Governmental Land District
10-12-1: MUNICIPAL AND GOVERNMENTAL LAND DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Office buildings owned and/or operated by the village, state, county, federal
government, any other local government or statutory special taxing district,
provided the lot area is seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet or
less.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Libraries.
Municipal utility and service uses including fire stations, police stations,
train stations, waterworks, reservoir, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Municipally owned or government owned community, cultural, historical or
recreational buildings and facilities.
Municipally owned or government owned telecommunication towers, antennas and
personal wireless services facilities, but prohibiting telecommunication towers
greater than forty five feet (45') in height, except for monopoles owned by a
state, federal or local government body that are used primarily for
governmental or public safety communications, provided that the monopole has a
maximum height of one hundred feet (100') and conforms to the regulations set
forth in chapter 4, part V of this ordinance.
Municipally owned parking lots, commuter or otherwise.
Museums.
Office buildings owned and operated by the village, state, county, federal
government, any other local government or statutory special taxing district,
provided the lot area exceeds seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet.
Post offices.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Utility and service uses or facilities owned and operated by the village,
state, county, federal government, any other local government or statutory
special taxing district.
   C.   Minimum Lot Area: None.
   D.   Minimum Lot Width: None.
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Front yard: Ten feet (10').
      2.   Corner side yard: Fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Interior side yard: None.
      4.   Rear yard: Five percent (5%) of the lot depth or five feet (5'),
whichever is less.
   F.   Transitional Yard Requirements: Along the lot line of a lot in the MGL
district that abuts a lot in a residential district, a landscaped, transitional
yard will be provided as outlined below and in subsection G of this section:
      1.   Front yard: None required.
      2.   Corner side yard: None required.
      3.   Interior side yard: Five feet (5').
      4.   Rear yard: Five percent (5%) of the lot depth or five feet (5'),
whichever is less.
   G.   Landscape Requirements For Transitional Yard: Where the lot line of a
lot in the MGL district abuts a lot in a residential district, landscaping in
the required transitional yard will be provided by the property owner in
accordance with the provisions of section
10-4-9, "Landscape Requirements", of this ordinance, including the submission
of a landscape plan for plan commission and village board approval. In
locations where the lot line of a lot in the MGL district abuts a lot in a
residential district and there is no parking lot improvement in the adjacent
side yard or rear yard area, the landscaping in the required transitional yard
will be provided by the property owner in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
10-4-9G4b(1)(A)(i) of this ordinance.
   H.   Minimum Open Space: None.
   I.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Permitted Uses: Thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2)
stories, whichever is less.
      2.   Conditional Uses: Forty five feet (45') or three and one-half (31/2)
stories, whichever is less.
      3.   Exceptions: All existing and proposed village owned water towers,
including the water tower located on the village green at 916 Hillgrove Avenue,
shall not be subject to the maximum building height regulations set forth in
this ordinance.
   J.   Maximum Building Coverage: None.
   K.   Exceptions: All buildings and structures located, in whole or in part,
in any right of way or public way shall not be subject to the minimum yard
requirements and the transitional yard and related landscaping requirements set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 09-2552, 10-12-2009)
CHAPTER 13
GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THIS TITLE
SECTION:
10-13-1: Eligibility For Village Approvals, Certificates, Licenses And Permits
If Debt Owed To Village
10-13-1: ELIGIBILITY FOR VILLAGE APPROVALS, CERTIFICATES, LICENSES AND PERMITS
IF DEBT OWED TO VILLAGE:
Eligibility if Debt Owed to Village: No Village approval, certificate, license
or permit shall be granted or issued to a person who owes any fee, fine,
payment, penalty or debt to the Village, and no such person shall be allowed to
apply for any Village approval, certificate, license or permit (e.g., building
permit or zoning relief) who owes any fee, fine, payment, penalty or debt to
the Village, unless and until the outstanding fee, fine, payment, penalty or
debt is: (a) paid; or (b) being actively contested in accordance with
applicable Village policies or procedures; or (c) discharged by action and
authority of the corporate authorities or the village manager in accordance
with applicable Village policies or procedures. (Ord. 22-3093, 8-15-2022)
APPENDIX A
Reserved
APPENDIX B
Gross Floor Area Supporting Documents
A.   Computation Of Gross Floor Area: The gross floor area provisions of this
ordinance were formalized to encourage harmony within the village's housing
stock in terms of the size and bulk of buildings as perceived from adjoining
properties.
Floor Area, Gross (For Determining Allowable Area In One- And Two-Family
Residential Districts): Except as hereinafter provided, the sum of the gross
horizontal areas of all floors of all stories and partial stories of a
building, or such area devoted to a specific use, measured from the exterior
face of exterior walls or from the center line of walls separating two (2)
buildings or uses.
B.   Calculation Requirements: The following shall be included in gross floor
area calculations:
   1. All gross square footage of each above grade floor of the principal
structure.
   2. All gross square footage of attached or detached garages.   
   3. That portion of unfinished or finished garage or attics seven feet (7')
or more in height. For purposes of this calculation garage ceiling heights are
presumed to be eight feet six inches (8'6") high.
   4. Other accessory structures including sheds and gazebos.
   5. Basements if the bottom of the first floor joist is more than three feet
six inches (3'6") above the existing grade adjoining the foundation areas.
   6. Those portions of house attics (finished or unfinished) that are seven
feet (7') in height or more, even if the space is interrupted with crossties or
has a truss design. Attic space shall be counted from a point nine feet (9')
above the second floor line.
   7. Open wood decks if the floor level exceeds three feet six inches (3'6")
above grade.
   8. Balconies, chimneys, bay windows, etc.
   9. Portions of a second floor that cantilever over open-walled first floor
yards shall count as two (2) stories.
   10. Any roof overhang, not including gutters, that projects three feet (3')
or more into one or more of the yards.
   11. All exterior area that is surrounded on eighty five percent (85%) or
more of its perimeter by the wall of any structure.
   12. Elevator shafts and stairwell at each floor.
   13. Floor spaces and shafts, not including roof space, used for mechanical,
electrical, and plumbing equipment.
   14. Penthouses; interior balconies and mezzanines.
   15. Atria and roofed porches.
   16. Any first floor space that has a floor to ceiling height of more than
fourteen feet (14'), each fourteen feet (14') in height, and any fraction
thereof in excess of fourteen feet (14') in height or a multiple thereof, shall
be treated as a separate floor.
C.   Exclusions: Exclude the following:
   1. Those parts of attics or other floor areas less than seven feet (7') in
height.
   2. Basements if the bottom of the floor joist above is less than three feet
six inches (3'6") above the existing grade.
   3. Open wood decks if the floor level is less than three feet six inches
(3'6") above grade.
   4. An open courtyard facing a public street.
   5. Sun or other decks with rails no higher than three feet six inches (3'6")
on a first, second or third floor.
D.   Gross Floor Area Formula:
   1.   For lots of less than 9,000 square feet:
lot area x 0.3 x 1.5; and
{'{'}(lot area x 0.3) - 440{'}'} x 0.3; and
440* sq. ft. = allowed gross floor area
      *   applicable to garage space only
   2.   For lots greater than 9,000 square feet**
lot area x 0.3 x 1.2; and
{'{'}(lot area x 0.3) - 440{'}'} x 0.3; and
440* sq. ft. = allowed gross floor area
 
*   applicable to garage space only
**   regardless of this calculation, construction of 5,167 square feet of gross
floor area shall be allowed.
 
E.   Sample Computation Of Gross Floor Area:
   1.   For lots of less than 9,000 square feet:
lot area x 0.3 x 1.5; and
{'{'}(lot area x 0.3) - 440{'}'} x 0.3; and
440* sq. ft. = allowed gross floor area
*   applicable to garage space only
 
For example in the case of a 7,000 sq. ft. lot:
7,000 x 0.3 x 1.5   =   3,150
(2,100 - 440) x 0.3   =   498
+ 440   =   440
4,088   allowable gross floor area
 
   2.   For lots greater than 9,000 square feet**
lot area x 0.3 x 1.2; and
{'{'}(lot area x 0.3) - 440{'}'} x 0.3; and
440* sq. ft. = allowed gross floor area
*   applicable to garage space only
**   regardless of this calculation, construction of 5,167 square feet of gross
floor area shall be allowed
 
For example in the case of a 13,000 sq. ft. lot:
13,000 x 0.3 x 1.2   =   4,680
(3,600 - 440) x 0.3   =   1,038
+ 440   =   440
6,158   allowable gross floor area
APPENDIX C
Zoning Illustrations
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7efaaabc0b80376f61b739c2a5b142f3b239a02e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2041.gif]
 
LOT WIDTH:      Is the horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot,
measured at the narrowest width within the first thirty feet (30') of lot depth
immediately in back of the required front yard. In no instance shall the
required front yard exceed the yard requirements of the zoning district in
which such lot is located.
LOT DEPTH:      Is the mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot, measured within the lot boundaries.
Figure 2
EXAMPLE OF LOT TYPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7efaaabc0b80376f61b739c2a5b142f3b239a02e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2043.gif]
 
DEFINITIONS
CORNER LOT:   Is a lot abutting on two streets at their intersection, where the
angle of intersection is not more than one hundred thirty five degrees (135o).
REVERSED CORNER
LOT:         Is a corner lot the street side lot line of which is substantially
a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its rear.
INTERIOR LOT:   Is a lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
THROUGH LOT:   Is a lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2) more
or less parallel public streets. On a through lot both street lines shall be
deemed front lot lines.
FIGURE 3
REQUIRED YARDS -- ILLUSTRATED
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/7efaaabc0b80376f61b739c2a5b142f3b239a02e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2045.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7efaaabc0b80376f61b739c2a5b142f3b239a02e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2047.gif] 
 
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/7efaaabc0b80376f61b739c2a5b142f3b239a02e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2049.gif]
 
(Ord. 92-1855, 12-14-1992)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7efaaabc0b80376f61b739c2a5b142f3b239a02e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2051.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7efaaabc0b80376f61b739c2a5b142f3b239a02e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2053.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7efaaabc0b80376f61b739c2a5b142f3b239a02e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2055.gif]
 
(Ord. 03-2266, 10-27-2003)
 
Figure 9
Residential Permeable Paver System
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7efaaabc0b80376f61b739c2a5b142f3b239a02e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2239.png]
 
(Ord. 21-304, 6-28-2021)
TITLE 11
FRANCHISES AND UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE 1
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Rights And Privileges Of Grantee
11-1-4: Agreement And Incorporation Of Application By Reference
11-1-5: Franchise Territory
11-1-6: Duration And Acceptance Of Franchise By Grantee
11-1-7: Franchise Renewal
11-1-8: Police Powers
11-1-9: Cable Television Franchise Required
11-1-10: Use Of Grantee Facilities
11-1-11: Initial Franchise Costs
11-1-12: Notices
11-1-13: Letter Of Credit/Security Deposit
11-1-14: Construction Bond
11-1-15: Liability And Insurance
11-1-16: Indemnification
11-1-17: Rights Of Individuals
11-1-18: Public Notice
11-1-19: Service Availability And Record Request
11-1-20: System Construction
11-1-21: Construction And Technical Standards
11-1-22: Use Of Streets
11-1-23: Operational Standards
11-1-24: Customer Service Standards
11-1-25: Continuity Of Service Mandatory
11-1-26: Complaint Procedure
11-1-27: Grantee Rules And Regulations
11-1-28: Franchise Fee
11-1-29: Transfer Of Ownership Or Control
11-1-30: Availability Of Books And Records
11-1-31: Other Petitions And Applications
11-1-32: Fiscal Reports
11-1-33: Removal Of Cable Television System
11-1-34: Required Services And Facilities
11-1-35: Rules And Regulations
11-1-36: Performance Evaluation Sessions
11-1-37: Rate Change Procedures
11-1-38: Forfeiture And Termination
11-1-39: Foreclosure
11-1-40: Receivership
11-1-41: Compliance With State And Federal Laws
11-1-42: Landlord/Tenant
11-1-43: Financial, Contractual, Shareholder And System Disclosure
11-1-44: Force Majeure
11-1-45: Penalties
11-1-46: Procedures
11-1-47: Purchase Of System
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8, Chapter 8 of this Code for telecommunications.
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the WESTERN SPRINGS CABLE
TELEVISION FRANCHISE ORDINANCE, hereinafter "franchise" or "Ordinance". (Ord.
98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
ADDITIONAL SERVICE: Any subscriber service provided by the grantee for which a
special charge is made based on program or service content, time, or spectrum
space usage.
APPLICANT: Any entity applying for a cable television franchise pursuant to
this Chapter.
BASIC SERVICE: All subscriber services provided by the grantee in one or more
service tiers, which includes the delivery of local broadcast stations, and
public, educational and government access channels. Basic service does not
include optional program and satellite service tiers, a la carte services, per
channel, per program, additional service, or auxiliary services for which a
separate charge is made. However, grantee may include other satellite signals
on the basic service tier.
BOARD: The Western Springs President and Board of Trustees.
CABLE SYSTEM OR SYSTEM OR CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM: A system of antennas,
cables, wires, lines, towers, wave-guides, or other conductors, converters,
equipment or facilities, designed and constructed for the purpose of producing,
receiving, transmitting, amplifying and distributing, audio, video, and other
forms of electronic, electrical or optical signals, which includes cable
television service and which is located in the Village. The definition shall
not include any such facility that serves or will serve only subscribers
without using Village rights of way.
CLASS IV CHANNEL: A signaling path provided by a cable communications system to
transmit signals of any type from a subscriber terminal to another point in the
cable communications system.
COMPLAINT: Any complaint regarding service, picture quality, charges or other
matter relating to the cable system made by a customer to the grantee, whether
in written or oral form.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control or ownership of a
system in whatever manner exercised. A rebuttable presumption of the existence
of control or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership,
directly or indirectly, by any person or entity (except underwriters during the
period in which they are offering securities to the public) of ten percent
(10%) or more of a cable system or the franchise under which the system is
operated. A change in the control or controlling interest of an entity which
has control or a controlling interest in a grantee shall constitute a change in
the control or controlling interest of the system under the same criteria.
Control or controlling interest as used herein may be held simultaneously by
more than one person or entity.
CONVERTER: An electronic device which converts signals to a frequency not
susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber, and
by an appropriate channel selector also permits a subscriber to view more than
twelve (12) channels delivered by the system at designated converter dial
locations.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission and any legally appointed,
designated or elected agent or successor.
GRANTEE: A person or entity to whom or which a franchise under this Chapter is
granted by the Village, along with the lawful successors or assigns of such
person or entity.
GROSS REVENUES: All revenue collected directly or indirectly by the grantee,
arising from or attributable to the provision of cable service by the grantee
within the Village including, but not limited to: periodic fees charged
subscribers for any basic, optional, premium, per-channel or per-program
service; installation and reconnection fees; leased channel fees; converter
rentals and/or sales; program guide revenues; studio or production equipment
rentals; late or administrative fees; upgrade, downgrade or other change-in-
service fees; advertising revenues; revenues from home shopping and bank-at-
home channels; revenues from the sale, exchange, use or cable cast of any
programming developed on the system for community or institutional use;
provided, however, that this shall not include any taxes on services furnished
by the grantee herein imposed directly upon any subscriber or user by the
State, local or other governmental unit and collected by the grantee on behalf
of the governmental unit.
INITIAL SERVICE AREA: All areas in the Village having a density of at least
twenty (20) dwelling units per street mile.
INSTALLATION: The connection of the system from feeder cable to subscribers'
terminals.
MAY: "May" is permissive.
MONITORING: Observing a communications signal, or the absence of a signal,
where the observer is neither the subscriber nor the programmer, whether the
signal is observed by visual or electronic means, for any purpose whatsoever;
provided monitoring shall not include systemwide, nonindividually addressed
sweeps of the system for purposes of verifying system integrity, controlling
return paths transmissions, or billing for pay services.
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: As applied to the grantee shall mean those hours during
which similar businesses in the Village are open to serve customers. In all
cases, normal business hours must include some evening hours at least one night
per week, and some weekend hours.
NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS: Those service conditions that are within the
control of the grantee. Those conditions that are not within the control of the
grantee include, but are not limited to: natural disasters, civil disturbances,
power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or unusual weather
conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of the
grantee include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view
events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and
maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
SERVICE INTERRUPTION: The loss of either picture or sound or both for a single
or multiple subscriber(s).
SHALL: "Shall" is mandatory.
STREET: The surface of and all rights of way and the space above and below any
public street, road, highway, freeway, lane, path, public way or place,
sidewalk, alley, court, boulevard, parkway, drive or easement now or hereafter
held by the Village for the purpose of public travel and shall include other
easements or rights of way as shall be now held or hereafter held by the
Village which shall, within their proper use and meaning entitle the grantee to
the use thereof for the purposes of installing poles, wires, cable, conductors,
ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and
other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to a cable
television system.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person, firm, grantee, corporation, or association lawfully
receiving any service provided by a grantee pursuant to this Chapter.
USER: A party utilizing a cable television system channel for purposes of
production or transmission of material to subscribers, as contrasted with
receipt thereof in a subscriber capacity.
VILLAGE: The Village of Western Springs, Illinois. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-3: RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES OF GRANTEE:
Any franchise granted by the Village pursuant to Illinois Compiled Statutes 1
shall grant to the grantee the nonexclusive right and privilege to erect,
construct, operate and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, over and under
the streets now in existence and as may be created or established during its
terms any poles, wires, cable, underground conduits, manholes, and other
television conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation
of a cable system. Any franchise granted hereunder shall have the same or
similar terms and conditions, including, but not limited to: a) franchise fees;
b) length of franchise term; and c) services, facilities, equipment and support
for public, educational and governmental (PEG) access, including channels used
for PEG purposes. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-42-11.
11-1-4: AGREEMENT AND INCORPORATION OF APPLICATION BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Upon adoption of any franchise agreement and execution thereof by the
grantee, the grantee agrees to be bound by all the terms and conditions
contained in this Chapter, without formal execution by the grantee.
   B.   The grantee also agrees to provide all services specifically set forth
in its application and to provide cable television service within the confines
of the Village; and by its acceptance of the franchise, the grantee
specifically grants and agrees that its application is thereby incorporated by
reference and made a part of the franchise. In the event of a conflict between
such proposals and the provisions of this Chapter, the provisions of this
Chapter shall control. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-5: FRANCHISE TERRITORY:
Any franchise is for the current territorial limits of the Village and for any
area henceforth added thereto during the term of the franchise. (Ord. 98-2054,
9-28-1998)
11-1-6: DURATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE BY GRANTEE:
Any franchise and the rights, privileges and authority hereby authorized shall
take effect and be in force from and after the signing of a franchise agreement
by the Village, as provided by law, and shall continue in force and effect for
a term of no longer than fifteen (15) years, provided that within thirty (30)
days after the date of Village approval of the franchise the grantee shall file
with the Village its unconditional acceptance of the franchise and promise to
comply with and abide by all its provisions, terms and conditions. Such
acceptance and promise shall be in writing duly executed and sworn to, by, or
on behalf of the grantee before a notary public or other officer authorized by
law to administer oaths. Such franchise shall be nonexclusive and revokable.
(Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-7: FRANCHISE RENEWAL:
   A.   Pursuant to 47 United States Code section 546, the following procedure
shall apply:
      1.   The Village may, on its own initiative, during the six (6) month
period which begins with the thirty sixth month before the franchise
expiration, commence a proceeding which affords the public in the Village
appropriate notice and participation for the purpose of: a) identifying the
future cable-related community needs and interests; and b) reviewing the
performance of the grantee under the franchise. If the grantee submits, during
such six (6) month period, a written renewal notice requesting the commencement
of such proceeding, the Village shall commence such proceeding not later than
six (6) months after the date such notice is submitted.
      2.   Upon completion of the proceeding under subsection A1 of this
Section, the grantee may, on its own initiative or at the request of the
Village, submit a proposal for renewal. The Village may establish a date by
which such proposal shall be submitted.
      3.   Upon submittal by the grantee of a proposal to the Village for the
renewal of the franchise, the Village shall provide prompt, public notice of
such proposal for renewal of the franchise or issue a preliminary assessment
whether or not the franchise should or should not be renewed, and at the
request of the grantee or on its own initiative, commence within a reasonable
time an administrative proceeding, after providing prompt, public notice of
such proceeding.
      4.   The Village shall consider in any administrative proceeding whether:
a) the grantee has substantially complied with material terms of the existing
franchise and with applicable law; b) the quality of the grantee's service,
including signal quality, response to consumer complaints and billing
practices, but without regard to the mix or quality of cable services or other
services provided over the system, has been reasonable in the light of
community needs; c) the grantee has the financial, legal and technical ability
to provide the services, facilities and equipment as set forth in the grantee's
proposal; and d) the grantee's proposal is reasonable to meet the future cable-
related community needs and interests, taking into account the costs of meeting
such needs and interests.
      5.   In any proceeding under subsection A4 of this Section, the grantee
shall be afforded adequate notice and the grantee and the Village, or its
designee, shall be afforded fair opportunity for full participation, including
the right to introduce evidence (including evidence related to issues raised in
the proceedings under subsection A1 of this Section), to require the production
of evidence and to question witnesses. A transcript shall be made of any such
proceeding.
      6.   At the completion of a proceeding under subsection A4 of this
Section, the Village shall issue a written decision granting or denying the
proposal for renewal based upon the record of such proceeding and transmit a
copy of such decision to the grantee. Such decision shall state the reasons
therefor.
      7.   Any denial of a proposal for renewal that has been submitted in
compliance with the procedures set forth above, shall be based on one or more
adverse findings made with respect to the factors described at items a) through
d) of subsection A4 of this Section pursuant to the record of the proceeding
under said subsection. The Village may not base a denial of renewal on a
failure to substantially comply with the material terms of the franchise or on
events considered under item b) of subsection A4 of this Section unless the
Village has provided the grantee with notice and the opportunity to cure or in
any case in which it is documented that the Village has waived its right to
object.
      8.   The grantee may appeal to a Cook County Circuit Court having
jurisdiction over such matters any final decision or failure of the Village to
act in accordance with the procedural requirements of this Section. The Court
shall grant appropriate relief if the Court finds that: a) any action of the
Village is not in compliance with the procedural requirements of this Section;
or b) in the event of a final decision of the Village denying the renewal
proposal, the grantee has demonstrated that the adverse finding of the Village
with respect to each of the factors described in items a) through d) of
subsection A4 of this Section on which the denial is based is not supported by
a preponderance of the evidence, based on the record of the administrative
proceeding.
   B.   Franchise Renewal In The Event Of Change In Federal Law:
      1.   To the extent applicable, current Federal procedures and standards
pursuant to 47 United States Code section 546 shall govern the renewal of any
franchise awarded under this Chapter.
      2.   In the event that any or all of the applicable provisions of Federal
law are repealed or otherwise modified, and to the full extent consistent with
such applicable provisions then in effect, the following section(s) shall
apply:
         a.   At least twenty four (24) months prior to the expiration of the
franchise, the grantee shall inform the Village in writing of its intent to
seek renewal of the franchise.
         b.   The Village shall within three (3) months after the Village
receives notice from grantee of its intent to seek renewal of its franchise,
commence a proceeding which affords the public in the Village appropriate
notice and participation for the purpose of: 1) identifying the future cable-
related community needs and interests; and 2) reviewing the performance of the
grantee under the franchise. The Village shall complete this proceeding within
six (6) months of its commencement.
         c.   Upon completion of the proceeding under subsection B2b of this
Section, the grantee may, on its own initiative or at the request of the
Village, submit a proposal for renewal. The Village may establish a reasonable
date by which such proposal shall be submitted, but in no event shall such time
be less than three (3) months.
         d.   The grantee shall submit a proposal for renewal which
demonstrates:
            (1)   That it has been and continues to be in substantial
compliance with the material terms, conditions, and limitations of this Chapter
and its franchise;
            (2)   That the quality of grantee's service, including signal
quality, response to consumer complaints and billing practices, but without
regards to the mix or quality of cable services or other services provided over
the cable system, has been reasonable in light of community needs, balanced
against the cost of meeting these needs.
            (3)   That it has the legal, technical, financial, and other
qualifications to provide the services, facilities, and equipment set forth in
its proposal; and
            (4)   That its proposal for services, facilities and equipment are
reasonable to meet the demonstrated needs of the community balanced against the
cost of meeting these needs as may be reasonably ascertained by the Village
pursuant to the public process set forth in subsection B1 of this Section.
         e.   The Village shall within a reasonable time proceed to determine
whether the grantee has satisfactorily performed its obligations under the
franchise and whether or not grantee's proposal is reasonable to meet the
future cable-related community needs and interest, taking into account the cost
of meeting such needs. To determine satisfactory performance, the Village shall
consider the performance of the system and the quality of the operator's
service, including signal quality, response to customer complaints, and billing
practices, but without regard to the mix or quality of cable services or other
services provided over the system. For such purposes, the Village shall be able
to also consider the grantee's reports made to the Village and to the FCC, and
the Village may require the grantee to make available specified records,
documents, and information for this purpose.
         f.   If the Village finds the grantee's performance satisfactory, that
grantee has technical, legal, and financial ability to provide the services,
facilities and equipment set forth in its proposal and that grantee's renewal
proposal meets the future cable-related needs of the Village, as ascertained by
public process set forth above, balanced against the costs of meeting these
needs and interests, a new franchise shall be granted pursuant to this Chapter
as amended for a period to be determined by the Village.
         g.   If the grantee is determined by the Village to have performed
unsatisfactorily or that its proposal is not sufficient to meet the future
cable-related needs and interests of the community then the Village shall issue
a preliminary assessment that the franchise should not be renewed, detailing in
writing the basis for nonrenewal. At the request of the operator or on its own
initiative, the Village shall commence an administrative proceeding, after
providing prompt public notice of such proceeding. Grantee shall be afforded
adequate notice of the hearing and grantee shall be afforded fair opportunity
for full participation, including the right to introduce evidence (including
evidence related to the issues raised by the Village as the basis for
nonrenewal to require the production of evidence, and to question witnesses). A
transcript shall be made of any such proceeding.
         h.   At the completion of a proceeding under this subsection the
Village shall issue a written decision granting or denying the proposal for
renewal based upon the record of such proceeding, and transmit a copy of such
decision to the cable operator. Such decision shall state the reasons therefor.
         i.   A grantee whose proposal for renewal has been denied by a final
decision of the Village, or has been adversely affected by a failure of the
Village to act in accordance with the procedural requirements of this Section,
may appeal such final decision or failure pursuant to a court of competent
jurisdiction.
         j.   The court shall grant appropriate relief if the court finds that:
            (1)   Any action of the Village, other than harmless error, is not
in compliance with the procedural requirements of this Section; or
            (2)   In the event of a final decision of the Village denying the
renewal proposal, grantee has demonstrated that the adverse finding of the
Village with respect to each of the factors described in subsections B2d(1)
through B2d(4) of this Section on which the denial is based is not supported by
a preponderance of the evidence, based on the record of the proceeding
conducted under subsection B2g of this Section.
         k.   Any decision of the Village on a proposal for renewal shall not
be considered final unless all administrative review by the State has occurred
or the opportunity therefor has lapsed.
         l.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section grantee may submit
a proposal for the renewal of a franchise, and the Village may, after affording
the public adequate notice and opportunity for comment, grant or deny such
proposal at any time. The denial of a renewal pursuant to this subsection B2l
shall not affect action on a renewal proposal that is submitted in accordance
with the renewal provisions set forth in subsections B2a through B2k of this
Section. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-8: POLICE POWERS:
   A.   In accepting a franchise, the grantee acknowledges that its rights
thereunder are subject to the police power of the Village to adopt and enforce
general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public; and it
agrees to comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the
Village pursuant to such power.
   B.   Any conflict between the provisions of a franchise and any other
present or future lawful exercise of the Village's police powers shall be
resolved in favor of the latter, except that any such exercise that is not of
general application in the jurisdiction, or applies exclusively to the grantee
or cable television systems which contains provisions inconsistent with this
Chapter, shall prevail only if upon such exercise the Village finds a danger to
health, safety, property or the general welfare or if such exercise is mandated
by law. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-9: CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
No cable television system shall be allowed to operate nor to occupy or use the
streets (i.e., rights of way) for system installation and maintenance purposes
within the Village without a franchise issued by the Village. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-
28-1998)
11-1-10: USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES:
The Village and the grantee shall work together to agree to terms and
conditions which allow the Village to install and maintain upon the poles of
the grantee, any wire or pole fixtures that do not unreasonably interfere with
the cable television system operations of the grantee. The Village shall
indemnify and hold harmless the grantee from any claim that might arise due to
or as a result of the Village's use. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-11: INITIAL FRANCHISE COSTS:
Costs to be borne by a grantee shall include any requirements or charges
incidental to the review of application whether or not a franchise is awarded,
the awarding or enforcing of its initial franchise, but shall not be limited
to: reasonable administrative, engineering, legal and consulting expenses, all
costs of publications of notices prior to any public meeting provided for
pursuant to this Chapter, and any costs not covered by application fees
incurred by the Village in its study, preparation of proposal documents,
evaluation of all applications, and examinations of the applicant's
qualifications. An estimate of such charges shall be paid initially with the
application fee. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-12: NOTICES:
All notices from the grantee to the Village pursuant to any franchise shall be
sent to the Village Manager's office, with a copy to the President of the Board
of Trustees. The grantee shall maintain with the Village, throughout the term
of the franchise, an address for service of notices by mail. The grantee shall
maintain a central office in the greater Chicago area to address any issues
relating to operating under this Chapter. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-13: LETTER OF CREDIT/SECURITY DEPOSIT:
   A.   Within fifteen (15) days after the award of an initial franchise, the
grantee shall deposit with the Village either an irrevocable letter of credit
from a financial institution or a security deposit in an amount of up to one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) with the amount and form to be
established by the Village, and specified in the franchise agreement. The form
and content of such letter of credit or security deposit shall be approved by
the Village Attorney. These instruments shall be used to ensure the faithful
performance of the grantee of all provisions of this Chapter, and to ensure
compliance with all orders, permits and directions of any agency, commission,
board, department, division, or office of the Village having jurisdiction over
its acts or defaults under this Chapter, and to ensure the payment by the
grantee of any claims, liens, and taxes due the Village which arise by reason
of the construction, operation or maintenance of the system.
   B.   Within fifteen (15) days after the award of a renewal franchise, the
grantee shall deposit with the Village either: 1) an irrevocable letter of
credit from a financial institution or a security deposit of thirty thousand
dollars ($30,000.00) or 2) a surety bond in the amount of one hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($150,000.00) with the amount and form to be established by
the Village. The form and content of such letter of credit, surety bond or
security deposit shall be approved by the Village Attorney. These instruments
shall be used to ensure the faithful performance of the grantee of all
provisions of this Chapter, and to ensure compliance with all orders, permits
and directions of any agency, commission, board, department, division, or
office of the Village having jurisdiction over its acts or defaults under this
Chapter, and to ensure the payment by the grantee of any claims, liens, and
taxes due the Village which arise by reason of the construction, operation or
maintenance of the system.
   C.   The letter of credit, surety bond or security deposit shall be
maintained at the amount established in subsections A and B of this Section for
the entire term of the franchise. If amounts have to be withdrawn pursuant to
this Chapter, the grantee shall promptly restore the letter of credit or
security deposit to the full amount.
   D.   If the grantee fails to pay to the Village any compensation within the
time fixed herein; or fails to pay to the Village any taxes due and unpaid; or
fails to repay the Village, any damages, costs or expenses which the Village is
compelled to pay by reason of any act or default of the grantee in connection
with the franchise, or fails, any provision of the franchise which the Village
reasonably determines can be remedied by demand on the letter of credit, surety
bond, or security deposit, the Village may demand payment of the amount
thereof, with interest and any penalties, from the letter of credit or security
deposit in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section. Grantee
will be provided thirty (30) days by the Village and an opportunity to cure
during such period. Grantee has the right to appeal the Village's determination
to a court of competent jurisdiction.
   E.   The rights reserved to the Village with respect to the letter of credit
are in addition to all other rights of the Village, whether reserved by the
franchise or authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or exercise of a
right with respect to such letter of credit shall affect any other right the
Village may have.
   F.   The letter of credit shall contain the following endorsement: "It is
hereby understood and agreed that this letter of credit or security deposit may
not be canceled by the surety nor the intention not to renew be stated by the
surety until thirty (30) days after receipt by the Village, by registered mail,
of a written notice of such intention to cancel or not to renew."
   G.   Upon receipt of the thirty (30) day notice, this shall be construed as
a default granting the Village the right to demand payment from the bank for
either the security deposit or letter of credit. Failure to renew the letter of
credit or to post a substitute within ten (10) days of the notice shall be
deemed a default.
   H.   The Village at any time during the term of this Chapter, may waive
grantee's requirement to maintain a letter of credit or security deposit. (Ord.
98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-14: CONSTRUCTION BOND:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the award of an initial franchise, the
grantee shall file with the Village a construction bond in the amount of not
less than fifty percent (50%) of the costs to install the system contained in
the application in favor of the Village. This bond shall be maintained
throughout the construction period and until such time as determined by the
Village, unless specified in the franchise agreement. The bonding company shall
be approved by the Village prior to the issuance of the bond.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days after the award of a renewal franchise, the
grantee shall file with the Village a construction bond in the amount of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). This bond shall be maintained
throughout the construction period and until such time as determined by the
Village, unless specified in the franchise agreement. The bonding company shall
be approved by the Village prior to the issuance of the bond.
   C.   If the grantee fails to comply with any law, ordinance or resolution as
it relates to the conditions relative to the construction, operation or
maintenance of the system, including the franchise agreement that is
incorporated herein by reference, there shall be recoverable jointly and
severally, from the principal and surety of the bond, any damages or loss
suffered by the Village as a result, including the full amount of any
compensation, indemnification, or cost of removal or abandonment of any
property of the grantee, plus a reasonable allowance for attorney fees,
including the Village's legal staff, and costs, up to the full amount of the
bond in accordance with the procedures set forth in subsection
11-1-3E of this Chapter. This Section shall be an additional remedy for any and
all violations outlined in Section
11-1-13 of this Chapter.
   D.   The Village may, upon completion of construction of the service area or
the upgrade, waive or reduce the requirement of the grantee to maintain the
bond. However, the Village may require a performance bond to be posted by the
grantee for any construction subsequent to the completion of the initial
service areas, in a reasonable amount and upon such terms as determined by the
Village.
   E.   The bond shall contain the following endorsement: "It is hereby
understood and agreed that this bond may not be canceled by the surety nor the
intention not to renew be stated by the surety until thirty (30) days after
receipt by the Village, by registered mail, a written notice of such intent to
cancel and not to renew."
   F.   Upon receipt of a thirty (30) day notice, this shall be construed as
default granting the Village the right to demand payment on the bond.
   G.   The Village, at any time during the term of this Chapter, may waive
grantee's requirement to maintain a performance bond. The waiver of the
requirement can be initiated by the Village or the grantee. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-
28-1998)
11-1-15: LIABILITY AND INSURANCE:
   A.   The grantee shall maintain and by its acceptance of the franchise
specifically agrees that it will maintain throughout the term of the franchise,
liability insurance insuring the Village and the grantee in the minimum amount
of:
      1.   One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for property damage to any one
person;
      2.   Three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for property damage from any
one accident;
      3.   One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury to any one
person;
      4.   Three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for personal injury from any
one accident;
      5.   An additional two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) for all other
types of liability ("umbrella" policy); and
      6.   Grantee shall also carry such insurance as it deems necessary to
protect it from all claims under the Workmen's Compensation Law that may be
applicable to the grantee.
   B.   The certificate of insurance obtained by the grantee in compliance with
this Section must be approved by the Village Attorney and such insurance policy
certificate of insurance, along with written evidence of payment of required
premiums, shall be filed and maintained with the Village during the term of the
franchise. The grantee shall immediately advise the Village Attorney of any
litigation that may develop that would or is likely to affect this insurance.
   C.   Neither the provisions of this Section nor any damages recovered by the
Village thereunder, shall be construed to limit the recovery of the Village or
the liability of the grantee under any franchise issued hereunder or for
damages.
   D.   Such insurance policies provided for herein shall name the Village, its
officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees as additional insured, and
shall be primary to any insurance carried by the Village, and shall contain the
following endorsement: "It is hereby understood and agreed that this insurance
policy may not be canceled by the surety nor the intention not to renew be
stated by the surety until thirty (30) days after receipt by the Village, by
registered mail, of written notice of such intention to cancel or not to
renew." (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-16: INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Disclaimer Of Liability: The Village shall not at any time be liable
for injury or damage occurring to any person or property from any cause
whatsoever arising out of the actions of the grantee in the construction,
maintenance, repair, use, operation, condition or dismantling of the grantee's
cable television system or due to the act or omission of any person or entity.
   B.   Indemnification: The grantee shall, at its sole cost and expense,
indemnify and hold harmless the Village, all associated, affiliated, allied and
subsidiary entities of the Village now existing or hereinafter created, and
their respective officers, boards, commissions, employees, agents, attorneys
and contractors (hereinafter referred to as "indemnitees") from and against:
      1.   Any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims,
liens, costs, charges, losses and expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses and consultants),
which may be imposed upon, incurred by or asserted against the indemnitees by
reason of any act or omission of the grantee, its personnel, employees, agents,
contractors or subcontractors, resulting in personal injury, bodily injury,
sickness, disease or death to any person or damage to, loss of or destruction
of tangible or intangible property, libel, slander, invasion of privacy and
unauthorized use of any trademark, trade name, copyright, patent, service mark
or any other right of any person which may arise out of or be in any way
connected with the construction, installation, operation, maintenance, use or
condition of the cable television system caused by grantee, its subcontractors
or agents or the grantee's failure to comply with any Federal, State or local
statute, ordinance or regulation.
      2.   Any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims,
liens, costs, charges, losses and expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses and consultants),
which are imposed upon, incurred by or asserted against the indemnitees by
reason of any claim or lien arising out of work, labor, materials or supplies
provided or supplied to the grantee, its contractors or subcontractors, for the
installation, construction, operation or maintenance of the cable television
system. Upon the written request of the Village such claim or lien shall be
discharged or bonded within fifteen (15) days following such request.
      3.   Any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims,
liens, costs, charges, losses and expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses and consultants),
which may be imposed upon, incurred by or asserted against the indemnitees by
reason of any financing or securities offering by grantee or its affiliates for
violations of the common law or any laws, statutes or regulations of the State
or of the United States, including those of the Federal Securities and Exchange
Commission, whether by the grantee or otherwise; excluding therefrom, however,
claims which are solely based upon and arise solely out of information supplied
by the Village to the grantee in writing and included in the offering materials
with the express written approval of the Village prior to the offering.
   C.   Assumption Of Risk: The grantee undertakes and assumes for its
officers, agents, contractors and subcontractors and employees all risk of
dangerous conditions, if any, on or about any Village-owned or controlled
property, including public rights of way and easements, and the grantee hereby
agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the indemnitees against and from any
claim asserted or liability imposed upon the indemnitees for personal injury or
property damage to any person arising out of the installation, operation,
maintenance or condition of the cable television system or the grantee's
failure to comply with any Federal, State or local statute, ordinance or
regulation.
   D.   Defense Of Indemnitees: In the event any action or proceeding shall be
brought against the indemnitees by reason of any matter for which the
indemnities are indemnified hereunder, the grantee shall, upon notice from any
of the indemnitees, at the grantee's sole cost and expense, resist and defend
the same, provided further, however, that the grantee shall not admit liability
in any such matter on behalf of the indemnitees without the written consent of
the Village Attorney or the Village Attorney's designee. Such decision shall be
made by the Village Attorney.
   E.   Notice: The Village shall give the grantee prompt notice of the making
of any written claim or the commencement of any action, suit or other
proceeding covered by the provisions of this Section.
   F.   Nonwaiver Of Statutory Limits: Nothing in this agreement is intended to
express or imply a waiver by the Village of statutory provisions, privileges or
immunities of any kind or nature as set forth in Illinois Compiled Statutes,
including the limits of liability of the Village as exists presently or as may
be increased from time to time by the legislature.
   G.   Right To Defend: The Village reserves the right to hire counsel and
participate in the defense of the indemnities with grantee. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-
28-1998)
11-1-17: RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS:
   A.   The grantee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, channel users, or general citizens on the
basis of race, color, religion, national origin, income, gender, marital
status, sexual preference or age. The grantee shall comply at all times with
all other applicable Federal, State and local laws and regulations and all
executive and administrative orders relating to nondiscrimination which are
hereby incorporated and made part of this Chapter by reference.
   B.   The grantee shall strictly adhere to the equal employment opportunity
requirements of the Federal Communications Commission and of State and local
governments, and as amended from time to time.
   C.   The grantee shall, at all times, comply with the privacy requirements
of State and Federal law.
   D.   Grantee is required to make all services available to all residential
dwellings throughout the service area in accordance with the line extension
policies of Section
11-1-20 of this Chapter. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-18: PUBLIC NOTICE:
Minimum public notice of any public meeting relating to the franchise shall be
by publication at least once in a local newspaper of general circulation at
least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, by posting at the Village Municipal
Center by announcement and such public notice shall be cablecast on at least
one channel of the grantee's system between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., for five (5) consecutive days prior to the
meeting. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-19: SERVICE AVAILABILITY AND RECORD REQUEST:
The grantee shall provide cable television service throughout the entire
franchise area pursuant to the provisions of the franchise and shall keep a
record for at least three (3) years of all requests for service received by the
grantee. This record shall be available for public inspection at the local
office of the grantee during regular office hours. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-20: SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   New Construction Timetable:
      1.   Within two (2) years from the date of the award of an initial
franchise, the grantee must make cable television service available to every
dwelling unit within the service area.
         a.   The grantee must make cable television service available to at
least twenty percent (20%) of the dwelling units within the service area within
six (6) months from the date of the award of the franchise.
         b.   The grantee must make cable television service available to at
least fifty percent (50%) of the dwelling units within the service area within
one year from the date of the award of the franchise.
      2.   The grantee, in its application, may propose a timetable of
construction which will make cable television service available in the service
area sooner than the above minimum requirements, in which case the said
schedule will be made part of the franchise agreement, and will be binding upon
the grantee.
      3.   Any delay beyond the terms of this timetable, unless specifically
approved by the Village, will be considered a violation of this Chapter for
which the provisions of either Section
11-1-38 or
11-1-45 of this Chapter shall apply, as determined by the Village.
      4.   In special circumstances the Village may waive one hundred percent
(100%) completion within the two (2) year time frame, provided substantial
completion is accomplished within the allotted time frame, substantial
completion to be not less than ninety five percent (95%). Any approval of such
requests is within the sole discretion of the Village.
   B.   Line Extensions:
      1.   Mandatory Extension Of Service: In areas of the franchise territory
not included in the initial service areas, the grantee shall be required to
extend its system pursuant to the following requirements:
         a.   No customer shall be refused service arbitrarily. Grantee is
hereby authorized to extend the cable system as necessary within the Village.
To expedite the process of extending the cable system into a new subdivision,
the Village will forward to the grantee an approved engineering plan of each
project. The grantee shall commence the design and construction process upon
receipt of the final engineering plan. Upon notification from the Village that
the first home in the project has been approved for a building permit, the
grantee shall have a maximum of three (3) months to complete the construction/
activation process within the applicable project phase. Extensions may be
granted by the Village based on unforeseen weather or ground conditions.
         b.   The grantee shall extend and make cable television service
available to every dwelling unit in all unserved, developing areas having at
least thirty (30) dwelling units planned per street mile, as measured from the
existing system, and shall make every effort to extend its system
simultaneously with the installation of utility lines, provided that it can
enter into such joint trench agreements on reasonable terms and conditions.
         c.   The grantee shall extend and make cable television service
available to any isolated resident outside the initial service area requesting
connection at the standard connection charge, if the connection to the isolated
resident would require no more than a standard one hundred twenty five foot
(125') drop line.
      2.   Early Extension: In areas not meeting the requirements for mandatory
extension of service, the grantee shall provide, upon the request of a
potential subscriber desiring service, an estimate of the grantee's costs
required to extend service to the subscriber. The grantee shall then extend
service upon request of the potential subscriber. The grantee may require
advance payment or assurance of payment satisfactory to the grantee. In the
event the area subsequently reaches the density required for mandatory
extension, such payments shall be refunded to the subscriber.
      3.   New Development Undergrounding: In cases of new construction or
property development where utilities are to be placed underground, the
developer or property owner shall give the grantee reasonable notice of such
construction or development, and of the particular date on which open trenching
will be available for the grantee's installation of conduit, pedestals and/or
vaults, and laterals to be provided at the grantee's expense. The grantee shall
also provide specifications as needed for trenching. Costs of trenching and
easements required to bring service to the development shall be borne by the
developer or property owner; except that if the grantee fails to install its
conduit, pedestals and/or vaults, and laterals within ten (10) working days of
the date the trenches are available, as designated in the notice given by the
developer or property owner, then should the trenches be closed after the ten
(10) day period, the cost of new trenching is to be borne by the grantee.
Except for the notice from the developer or property owner of the particular
date on which trenching will be available to the grantee, notice provided to
the grantee by the Village of the opening of a trench shall also satisfy the
requirement of reasonable notice if sent to the local general manager or system
engineer of the grantee.
   C.   Special Agreements: Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the
grantee from serving areas not covered under this Section upon agreement with
developers, property owners, residents, or businesses.
   D.   Policy: A grantee, in its application, may propose a line extension
policy that will result in serving more residents of the Village than as
required above. If such approval is approved by the Village, the grantee's
policy will be incorporated into the franchise agreement and will be binding on
the grantee.
   E.   Accessability: Where access to property is denied by the property owner
or where a cost is imposed to cross private property, grantee shall have the
option not to provide cable service. In such circumstances, however, grantee
will endeavor in good faith to reach agreement with those requesting service in
an effort to make extension of the cable system economically feasible by a
contribution in aid of construction by those requesting service.
   F.   Violation: The violation of this Section shall be considered a breach
of the terms of this Chapter, for which the provisions of either Section
11-1-38 or
11-1-47 of this Chapter shall apply, as determined by the Village. (Ord. 98-
2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-21: CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance With Construction And Technical Standards: The grantee shall
construct, install, operate and maintain its system in a manner consistent with
all laws, ordinances, construction standards, governmental requirements, and
FCC technical standards. In addition, the grantee shall provide the Village,
upon request, a written report of the results of the grantee's annual proof of
performance tests conducted pursuant to Federal Communications Commission
standards and requirements.
   B.   Additional Specifications:
      1.   Construction, installation and maintenance of the cable television
system shall be performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All cables and
wires shall be installed, where possible, parallel with electric and telephone
lines. Multiple cable configurations shall be arranged in parallel and bundled
with due respect for engineering considerations.
      2.   The grantee shall at all times comply with:
         a.   National Electrical Safety Code (National Bureau of Standards);
         b.   National Electrical Code (National Bureau of Fire Underwriters);
         c.   Bell System Code of Pole Line Construction; and
         d.   Applicable FCC or other Federal, State and local regulations.
      3.   In any event, the system shall not endanger or interfere with the
safety of persons or property in the franchise area or other areas where the
grantee may have equipment located.
      4.   Any antenna structure used in the system shall comply with
construction, marking, and lighting of antenna structure, required by the
United States Department of Transportation and any local ordinances.
      5.   All working facilities and conditions used during construction,
installation and maintenance of the cable television system shall comply with
the standards of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
      6.   Radio frequency (RF) leakage shall be checked at reception locations
for emergency radio services to prove no interference signal combinations are
possible. Stray radiation shall be measured adjacent to any proposed
aeronautical navigation radio sites to prove no interference to airborne
navigational reception in the normal flight patterns. FCC rules and regulations
shall govern.
      7.   The grantee shall maintain equipment capable of providing standby
power for headend, transportation and trunk amplifiers for a minimum of two (2)
hours.
      8.   In all areas of the Village where the cables, wires and other like
facilities of all public utilities are placed underground, the grantee shall
place its cables, wires and other like facilities underground. When all public
utilities relocate their facilities from pole to underground, the grantee must
concurrently do so. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-22: USE OF STREETS:
   A.   Interference With Persons And Improvements: The grantee's system,
poles, wires and appurtenances shall be located, erected and maintained so that
none of its facilities shall endanger or interfere with the lives of persons or
interfere with the rights or reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin any of the streets and public ways, or interfere with any improvements
the Village may deem proper to make, or unnecessarily hinder or obstruct the
free use of the streets, alleys, bridges, easements or public property.
   B.   Restoration To Prior Condition: In case of any disturbance of pavement,
sidewalk, landscaping, driveway or other surfacing, the grantee shall, at its
own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the Village, replace and
restore all paving, sidewalk, driveway, landscaping or surface of any street or
alley disturbed, in as good condition as before the work was commenced and in
accordance with standards for such work set by the Village.
   C.   Erection, Removal And Common Uses Of Poles:
      1.   No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected by the
grantee without prior approval of the Village with regard to location, height,
types, and any other pertinent aspect. However, no location of any pole or
wire-holding structure of the grantee shall be a vested interest and such poles
or structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its own expense
whenever the Village determines that the public convenience would be enhanced
thereby.
      2.   Where poles or other wire-holding structures already existing for
use in serving the Village are available for use by the grantee, but it does
not make arrangements for such use, the Village may require the grantee to use
such poles and structures if it determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available to the grantee are just and
reasonable.
   D.   Relocation Of Facilities: If at any time during the period of the
franchise the Village shall elect to alter, or change the grade of any street,
alley or other public ways, the grantee, upon reasonable notice by the Village,
shall remove or relocate as necessary its poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense.
   E.   Cooperation With Building Movers: The grantee shall, on the request of
any person holding a building moving permit issued by the Village, temporarily
raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such
temporary removal, raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person
requesting the same, and the grantee shall have the authority to require such
payment in advance. The grantee shall be given not less than forty eight (48)
hours' advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   F.   Tree Trimming: The grantee shall not remove any tree or trim any
portion, either above, at or below ground level, of any tree within any public
place without the prior written consent of the Village. The grantee shall
provide notice to any affected residents at the same time that the grantee
applies to the Village for consent to perform tree trimming. The Village shall
have the right to do the trimming requested by the grantee at the cost of the
grantee. Regardless of who performs the work requested by the grantee, the
grantee shall be responsible, shall defend and hold the Village harmless from
any and all damages to any tree as a result of trimming, or to the property
surrounding any tree, whether such tree is trimmed or removed, except for any
damage attributable to the Villages negligence or wilful misconduct. (Ord. 98-
2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-23: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   The grantee shall maintain all parts of the system in good working
order throughout the entire franchise period.
   B.   Upon the reasonable request for service by any person located within
the franchise territory, barring any unforeseen weather or ground conditions,
the grantee shall, within thirty (30) days, furnish the requested service to
such person within terms of the line extension policy. A request for service
shall be unreasonable for the purpose of this subsection B if no trunk line
installation capable of servicing that person's block has been installed.
   C.   The grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. Such
interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall occur
during periods of minimum system use.
   D.   The grantee shall not allow its cable or other operations to interfere
with television reception of subscribers or persons not served by the grantee,
nor shall the system interfere with, obstruct or hinder in any manner the
operation of the various utilities serving the residents within the confines of
the Village. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-24: CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS:
   A.   Enforcement Of Other Laws: Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed
to prohibit the enforcement of any Federal, State or local law or regulation
concerning customer service or consumer protection that imposes customer
service standards or consumer protection requirements that exceed the customer
service standards set out in this Chapter or that address matters not addressed
in this Chapter.
   B.   Telephone Access: The grantee shall maintain a local or toll-free
telephone access line which is available to its subscribers and shall have
knowledgeable, qualified representatives available to respond to customer
telephone inquiries twenty four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week.
   C.   Telephone Answer Time: Under normal operating conditions, telephone
answer time, including wait time and the time required to transfer the call,
shall not exceed thirty (30) seconds. This standard shall be met no less than
ninety percent (90%) of the time as measured on a quarterly basis.
   D.   Busy Signal Percentage: Under normal operating conditions, the customer
will receive a busy signal less than three percent (3%) of the total time that
the office is open for business.
   E.   Central Location: The grantee shall maintain a central office for the
purpose of receiving and resolving all complaints regarding the quality of
service, equipment malfunctions, and similar matters. The office must be
reachable by a local and/or toll-free telephone call to receive complaints
regarding quality of service, equipment functions and similar matters. The
grantee will make good faith efforts to arrange for one or more payment
locations in a central location where customers can pay bills or conduct other
business activities.
   F.   Walk-In Location: Customer service centers and bill payment locations
will be open for walk-in customer transactions a minimum of eight (8) hours per
day Monday through Friday, unless there is a need to modify those hours because
of the location or customers served. The grantee and Village by mutual consent
shall establish supplemental hours on weekdays and weekends as fits the needs
of the community.
   G.   Service Standards: Under normal operating conditions, each of the
following standards will be met no less than ninety five percent (95%) of the
time, as measured on an annual basis:
      1.   Standard installations will be performed within seven (7) business
days after an order has been placed. A standard installation is one that is
within one hundred twenty five feet (125') of the existing system.
      2.   Excluding those situations that are beyond its control, the grantee
will respond to any service interruption promptly and in no event later than
twenty four (24) hours from the time of initial notification. All other regular
service requests will be responded to within thirty six (36) hours during the
normal work week for that system. The appointment window alternatives for
installations, service calls and other installation activities will be:
"morning" or "afternoon"; not to exceed a four (4) hour "window" during normal
business hours for the system, or at a time that is mutually acceptable. The
grantee shall schedule supplemental hours during which appointments can be
scheduled based on the needs of the community. If at any time an installer or
technician is running late, an attempt to contact the customer will be made and
the appointment rescheduled as necessary at a time that is convenient to the
customer.
   H.   Subscriber Credit For Outages: Upon service interruption of a
subscriber's cable service, the following shall apply:
      1.   For service interruptions of more than four (4) hours and up to four
(4) days, the grantee shall provide, at the subscriber's request, a credit of
one-thirtieth (1/30) of one month's fees for affected services for each twenty
four (24) hour period service is interrupted for an accumulated four (4) or
more hours for any subscriber, with the exception of subscribers disconnected
because of nonpayment or excessive signal leakage.
      2.   For interruptions of four (4) days or more in one month, the grantee
shall provide, at the subscriber's request, a full month's credit for affected
services for all affected subscribers.
   I.   Written Information: The grantee shall provide written information for
each of the following areas at the time of installation and at any future time
upon the request of the customer:
      1.   Product and services offered.
      2.   Prices and service options.
      3.   Installation and service policies.
      4.   How to use the cable television services.
      5.   Customer service standards and credit for service outage policy as
contained herein.
   J.   Bills: Bills will be clear, concise and understandable, with all
charges for cable services itemized.
   K.   Imposition Of Fees: A grantee may not impose a late, administrative or
other fee on a customer for nonpayment of a bill until thirty (30) days have
elapsed after the end of the billing cycle which is the subject of the unpaid
bill.
   L.   Disputed Bills: A grantee may not disconnect a customer for nonpayment
of disputed bills until such a time as the dispute has been resolved in
accordance with the grantee's customer service policies.
   M.   Credits: Credits will be issued promptly, but no later than the
customer's next billing cycle following the resolution of the request and the
return of the equipment by the grantee if service has been terminated.
   N.   Rate Or Channel Change: The grantee shall notify the Village and
customers a minimum of thirty (30) days in advance of any rate or channel
change.
   O.   Compliance To Rules And Regulations: The grantee shall maintain and
operate its network in accordance with the rules and regulations incorporated
herein or as may be promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission, the
United States Congress, or applicable laws of the State.
   P.   Failure To Maintain Standards: The grantee shall continue, through the
term of the franchise, to maintain the technical standards and quality of
service set forth in this Chapter. Should the Village find, by resolution, that
the grantee has failed to maintain these technical standards and quality of
service, and should it, by resolution, specifically enumerate improvements to
be made, the grantee shall make such improvements. Failure to make such
improvements within three (3) months of such resolution will constitute a
breach of a condition for which penalties contained in Section
11-1-45 of this Chapter are applicable.
   Q.   Monthly Service Log: The grantee shall keep a monthly service log which
indicates the nature of each service complaint received in the last twenty four
(24) months, the date and time each complaint was received, the disposition of
each complaint, and the time and date thereof. This log shall be made available
for periodic inspection by the Village.
   R.   Copy Of Customer Service Standards: The grantee shall provide a copy of
the customer service standards included in this Section to every subscriber via
a bill insert at least once every calendar year. The grantee shall also provide
a copy of these customer service standards to every new customer within thirty
(30) days of connection. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-25: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE MANDATORY:
   A.   It shall be the right of all subscribers to continue receiving service
as long as their financial and other obligations to the grantee are honored. If
the grantee elects to overbuild, rebuild, modify or sell the system, or the
Village gives notice of intent to terminate or fails to renew the franchise,
the grantee shall act so as to ensure that all subscribers receive continuous,
uninterrupted service regardless of the circumstances for a period not to
exceed twelve (12) months after the franchise agreement has terminated.
   B.   If there is a change of franchise, or if a new operator acquires the
system, the grantee shall cooperate with the Village, new grantee or operator
in maintaining continuity of service to all subscribers. During such period,
the grantee shall be entitled to the revenues for any period during which it
operates the system, and shall be entitled to reasonable costs for its services
until it no longer operates the system.
   C.   If the grantee fails to operate the system for seven (7) consecutive
days without prior approval of the Village or without just cause, the Village
may, at its option, operate the system or designate an operator until such time
as the grantee restores service under conditions acceptable to the Village or a
permanent operator is selected. If the Village is required to fulfill this
obligation for the grantee, the Village shall be entitled to all revenues for
any period during which it operates the system and the grantee shall reimburse
the Village for all reasonable costs or damages in excess of revenues from the
system received by the Village that are the result of the grantee's failure to
perform. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-26: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
   A.   The Village Manager or chief elected official or his designee is
designated as having primary responsibility for the continuing administration
of the franchise and for the implementation of complaint procedures.
   B.   As subscribers are connected or reconnected to the system, the grantee
shall, by appropriate means, such as a card or brochure, furnish information
concerning the procedures for making inquiries or complaints, including the
name, address and local telephone number of the employee or employees or agent
to whom such inquiries or complaints are to be addressed.
   C.   When there have been similar complaints made, or where there exists
other evidence, which, in the judgment of the Village, in consultation with the
grantee, casts doubt on the reliability or quality of cable service, the
Village shall have the right and authority to require the grantee to test,
analyze and report on the performance of the system. The grantee shall fully
cooperate with the Village in performing such testing and shall prepare results
and submit a report within thirty (30) days after notice. Such report shall
include the following information:
      1.   The nature of the complaint or problem that precipitated the special
tests;
      2.   The system component(s) tested;
      3.   The equipment used and procedures employed in testing;
      4.   The method, if any, in which such complaint or problem was resolved;
      5.   Any other information pertinent to the tests and analysis which may
be required.
   D.   The Village may require that tests be supervised, at the Village's
expense, by an independent professional engineer or equivalent of the Village's
choice. The engineer shall sign all records of special tests and forward to the
Village such records with a report interpreting the results of the tests and
recommending actions to be taken. If tests show that fifteen percent (15%) of
the system's tests do not meet FCC technical standards, grantee shall reimburse
the Village for its expenses.
   E.   The Village's rights under this Section shall be limited to requiring
tests, analysis and reports covering specific subjects and characteristics
based on complaints or other evidence when and under such circumstances as the
Village has reasonable grounds to believe that the complaints or other evidence
require that tests be performed to protect the public against substandard cable
service. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-27: GRANTEE RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The grantee shall have the authority to promulgate such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business as shall be
reasonably necessary to enable the grantee to exercise its rights and perform
its obligations under the franchise, and to assure uninterrupted service to
each and all of its customers; provided, however, that such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with the provisions hereof or
applicable State and Federal laws, rules and regulations. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-
1998)
11-1-28: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   A grantee shall pay to the Village a franchise fee in the amount
designated in the franchise agreement. Unless otherwise specified in the
franchise agreement, such franchise fee shall be five percent (5%) of the
grantee's gross revenues, or such greater amount as allowed by law or such
lesser amount as may be designated by the Village.
   B.   The franchise fee payment shall be in addition to any other tax or
payment owed to the Village by the grantee and shall not be construed as
payment in lieu of municipal property taxes or other state, county or local
taxes, unless Federal, State, or local law so permits.
   C.   The franchise fee and any other costs or penalties assessed shall be
payable quarterly on a calendar year basis to the Village within thirty (30)
days of the end of each quarter. The grantee shall also file a complete and
accurate verified statement of all gross receipts as previously defined within
thirty (30) days after the end of the quarter.
   D.   The Village shall have the right to inspect the grantee's income
records and the right to audit and to recompute any amounts determined to be
payable under this Chapter; provided, however, that such audit shall take place
within sixty (60) months following the close of each of the grantee's fiscal
years. Any additional amount due the Village as a result of an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days following written notice to the grantee by the
Village, which notice shall include a copy of the audit report.
   E.   If any franchise payment or recomputed amount, cost or penalty, is not
made on or before the applicable dates heretofore specified, interest shall be
charged daily from such date at an annual rate of twelve percent (12%). The
grantee shall reimburse the Village for any additional expenses and costs
incurred by the Village by reason of the delinquent payment(s). (Ord. 98-2054,
9-28-1998)
11-1-29: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL:
   A.   A franchise shall not be assigned or transferred, pass to or vest in
any person without the prior written consent of the Village. For the purposes
of this Section a trust, mortgage or other hypothecation in whole or in part to
secure an indebtedness, shall not be considered a sale, transfer or assignment
for which consent is required. In addition, the grantee may transfer or assign
the franchise to an affiliate or parent of the grantee provided such assign
does not relieve grantee of its liabilities and obligations and such affiliate
or parent may transfer or assign the franchise back to the grantee without such
consent, providing that such assignment is without any release of liability and
obligations of the grantee. Any proposed assignee must show legal, technical
and financial responsibility as determined by the Village and must agree to
comply with all provisions of the franchise. The Village shall have one hundred
twenty (120) days to act upon any request for approval of a sale or transfer
submitted in writing and grantee must accompany such request with such
information as is reasonably required by FCC regulations and the Village. The
Village shall be deemed to have consented to a proposed transfer or assignment
if its refusal to consent is not communicated in writing to the grantee within
one hundred twenty (120) days following receipt of written notice and receipt
of all necessary information as to the effect of the proposed transfer or
assignment upon the public, unless the requesting party and the Village agree
to an extension of time. The Village shall not unreasonably withhold consent to
a proposed transfer.
   B.   The grantee shall promptly notify the Village of any actual or proposed
change in, or transfer of, or acquisition by any other party of, control of the
grantee. The word "control" as used herein is not limited to major stockholders
but includes actual working control in whatever manner exercised. A rebuttable
presumption that a transfer of control has occurred shall arise upon the
acquisition or accumulation by any person or group of persons of ten percent
(10%) of the voting shares of the grantee. Every change, transfer or
acquisition of control of the grantee shall make the franchise subject to
revocation unless and until the Village shall have consented thereto, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. For the purpose of determining
whether it shall consent to such change, transfer or acquisition of control,
the Village may inquire into the qualifications of the prospective controlling
party, and the grantee shall assist the Village in such inquiry.
   C.   The consent or approval of the Village to any transfer of the grantee
shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the Village in and to
the streets, and any transfer shall by its terms, be expressly subordinate to
the terms and conditions of the franchise.
   D.   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the Village shall not be
required to approve any transfer or assignment of a new franchise prior to
substantial completion of construction of the proposed system.
   E.   In no event shall a transfer of ownership or control be approved
without the successor(s) in interest becoming a signatory to the franchise
agreement. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-30: AVAILABILITY OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   The grantee shall fully cooperate in making available at reasonable
times, and the Village shall have the right to inspect, where reasonably
necessary for the enforcement of the franchise, books, records, maps, plans and
other like materials of the grantee applicable to the cable television system,
at any time during normal business hours; provided where volume and convenience
necessitate, the grantee may require inspection to take place on the grantee
premises.
   B.   The following records and/or reports shall be sent to the Village upon
request, but no more frequently than on an annual basis if so mutually agreed
upon by the grantee and the Village:
      1.   A quarterly review and resolution or progress report submitted by
the grantee to the Village;
      2.   Periodic preventive maintenance reports;
      3.   Any copies of FCC Form 395-A (or successor form) or any supplemental
forms related to equal opportunity or fair contracting policies;
      4.   Subscriber inquiry/complaint resolution data and the right to review
documentation concerning these inquiries and/or complaints periodically;
      5.   Periodic construction update reports including, where appropriate,
the submission of as-built maps. Prior to the submission of any maps under this
Section, the Village agrees to withhold such maps from inspection and copying
in accordance with Illinois law, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(g).
      6.   Quarterly information related to connections, disconnections,
outages, upgrades, and downgrades. The Village agrees to withhold such
information from inspection and copying in accordance with Illinois law, 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(g). (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-31: OTHER PETITIONS AND APPLICATIONS:
Upon request, copies of all petitions, applications, communications and reports
submitted by the grantee to the Federal Communications Commission, to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, or to any other Federal or State regulatory
commission or agency having jurisdiction in respect to any matters affecting
cable television operations authorized pursuant to the franchise or received
from such agencies shall be provided simultaneously to the Village. (Ord. 98-
2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-32: FISCAL REPORTS:
The grantee shall file annually with the Village no later than one hundred
twenty (120) days after the end of the grantee's fiscal year, a copy of a gross
revenues statement certified by an officer of the grantee. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-
1998)
11-1-33: REMOVAL OF CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM:
At the expiration of the term for which the franchise is granted or when any
renewal is denied, or upon its termination as provided herein, the grantee
shall forthwith, upon notice by the Village, remove at its own expense all
designated portions of the cable television system from all streets and public
property within the Village. If the grantee fails to do so, the Village may
perform the work at the grantee's expense. Upon such notice of removal, a bond
shall be furnished by the grantee in an amount sufficient to cover this
expense. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-34: REQUIRED SERVICES AND FACILITIES:
   A.   The cable television system shall have a minimum channel capacity of
eighty five (85) channels, and grantee shall make available a minimum of eighty
five (85) channels of video programming.
   B.   Such system shall maintain a plant having the technical capacity for
"two-way" communications.
   C.   The grantee shall maintain the following:
      1.   At least one specially designated, noncommercial governmental access
channel available on a first-come, nondiscriminatory basis;
      2.   At least one specially designated noncommercial educational channel
for use by local educational authorities;
      3.   The grantee shall make a channel available for leased access uses in
accordance with the requirements of Federal law. Studios and associated
production equipment will be located in a mutually agreed upon site to meet the
public's need for public access, education and local government channels as
noted above. Financial and technical support and replacement and maintenance of
equipment of this facility shall be separately incorporated into the franchise
by agreement.
   D.   The grantee shall provide emergency broadcast capacity pursuant to FCC
rules. The grantee shall cooperate with the Village in the use and operation of
the emergency alert override system.
   E.   The grantee shall provide such additional services and facilities as
are contained in its application, which is incorporated by reference herein.
(Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-35: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   In addition to the inherent powers of the Village to regulate and
control any cable television franchise, and those powers expressly reserved by
the Village, or agreed to and provided for herein, the right and power is
hereby reserved by the Village to promulgate such additional regulations as it
shall find necessary in the exercise of its lawful powers and furtherance of
the terms and conditions of the franchise; provided, however, that such rules,
regulations, terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with the provisions
hereof or applicable State and Federal laws, rules and regulations.
   B.   The Village may also adopt such regulations at the request of grantee
upon application.
   C.   The Village may operate through an organization of municipalities and
name such as its designee for certain matters pursuant to Section
11-1-24 of this Chapter. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-36: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SESSIONS:
It is recognized that technology is rapidly changing and that it may become
desirable to incorporate changed technology or services in this agreement.
Accordingly, grantee shall be required to continuously monitor developments in
cable technology and grantee and the Village may hold regular review sessions
within thirty (30) days after the third, sixth, and ninth anniversary dates of
the grant of this franchise agreement. All such evaluation sessions shall be
open to the public.
   A.   Special evaluation sessions may be held at any time during the term of
the franchise at the request of the Village or the grantee.
   B.   Topics which may be discussed at any scheduled or special evaluation
session may include, but are not limited to: service rate structures; franchise
fee, penalties, free or discounted services; application of new technologies;
system performance; services provided; programming offered; customer
complaints; privacy; amendments to this Chapter; judicial and FCC rulings; line
extension policies; and grantee or Village rules.
   C.   Members of the general public may add topics either by working through
the negotiating parties or by presenting a petition.
   D.   To facilitate this review, within forty five (45) days of the scheduled
review session, grantee shall prepare and deliver a report to the Village
describing developments in cable technology.
   E.   Following the review session, the Village and grantee may enter into
good faith discussions to determine whether or not the system should be
updated, changed, revised, or that additional services should be provided, but
only if such update, change, revision or provision of additional services is
economically and technically feasible, and if there is sufficient demand among
the subscribers for such technology and/or services.
   F.   Economic feasibility shall be determined in good faith following an
evaluation of the grantee's financial condition, economic waste, if any, that
would occur should the changes be made, the remaining term of the franchise,
and the rate of return on grantee's investment (both prior investment and
proposed future investment) in the system. Grantee may require that the Village
hold an additional public hearing as part of these negotiations. Grantee shall
also provide the Village with financial information in order to facilitate the
economic feasibility evaluation, provided the Village enters into a reasonable
confidentiality agreement with grantee covering these financial materials.
(Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-37: RATE CHANGE PROCEDURES:
Pursuant to the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of
1992, the Village is currently certified to regulate the basic service rates
charged by grantee. Under these rules, grantee is required to obtain approval
from the Village for a rate increase for any change to the rates for basic
service. Should Federal or State law permit further rate regulation beyond
basic service, the Village may assume such rate regulation and adopt
appropriate procedures for such regulation. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-38: FORFEITURE AND TERMINATION:
   A.   In addition to all other rights and powers retained by the Village
under this Chapter or otherwise, the Village reserves the right to terminate
the franchise and all rights and privileges of the grantee hereunder in the
event of a substantial breach of its terms and conditions. A substantial breach
by the grantee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Violation of any material provision of the franchise or any material
rule, order, regulation or determination of the Village made pursuant to the
franchise or other local, State, or Federal law;
      2.   Attempt to evade any material provision of the franchise or to
practice any fraud or deceit upon the Village or its subscribers or customers;
      3.   Failure to begin or complete system construction or system extension
as provided under Section
11-1-20 of this Chapter;
      4.   Failure to provide the services promised in the grantee's initial
application as incorporated herein by Section
11-1-4 of this Chapter;
      5.   Failure to restore service after ninety six (96) consecutive hours
of interrupted service, except when approval of such interruption is obtained
from the Village; or
      6.   Material misrepresentation of fact in the application for or
negotiation of the franchise.
   B.   The foregoing shall not constitute a major breach if the violation
occurs but is without fault of the grantee or occurs as a result of
circumstances beyond its control. The grantee shall not be excused by mere
economic hardship nor by misfeasance or malfeasance of its directors, officers
or employees.
   C.   The Village may make a written demand that the grantee comply with any
such provision, rule, order or determination under or pursuant to the
franchise. If the violation by the grantee continues for a period of thirty
(30) days following such written demand without written proof that the
corrective action has been taken or is being actively and expeditiously
pursued, the Village may place the issue of termination of the franchise before
the Village Board. The Village shall cause to be served upon the grantee, at
least twenty (20) days prior to the date of such meeting, a written notice of
intent to request such termination and the time and place of the meeting.
Public notice shall be given of the meeting and the issue(s) which the Board is
to consider.
   D.   The Village Board shall hear and consider the issue(s) and shall hear
any person interested therein and shall determine in its discretion whether or
not any violation by the grantee has occurred. Grantee shall be afforded rights
of due proceeds to be heard at this hearing. This shall include, but is not
limited to, an opportunity to present all relevant evidence and witnesses. The
grantee may, at its own expense, make a transcript of the hearing.
   E.   If the Village Board determines that the violation by the grantee was
the fault of the grantee and within its control, the Board may, by resolution
declare that the franchise of the grantee shall be forfeited and terminated
unless there is compliance within such period as the Board may fix, such period
to not be less than thirty (30) days; provided, however, that no opportunity
for compliance need be granted for fraud or misrepresentation.
   F.   The issue of forfeiture and termination shall automatically be placed
upon the Board agenda at the expiration of the time set by it for compliance.
The Board may then terminate the franchise forthwith upon finding that the
grantee has failed to achieve compliance or it may further extend the period,
at its discretion.
   G.   Grantee may appeal a decision by the Village to forfeit or terminate
the franchise under this Section to a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord.
98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-39: FORECLOSURE:
Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a substantial part of the
system, or upon the termination of any lease covering all or a substantial part
of the system, the grantee shall notify the Village of such fact, and such
notification shall be treated as a notification that a change in control of the
grantee has taken place, and the provisions of the franchise governing the
consent of the Village to such change in control of the grantee shall apply.
(Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-40: RECEIVERSHIP:
The Village shall have the right to cancel a franchise one hundred twenty (120)
days after the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to take over and conduct
the business of the grantee, whether in receivership, reorganization,
bankruptcy or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or
trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of one hundred
twenty (120) days, or unless:
   A.   Within one hundred twenty (120) days after his/her election or
appointment, such receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all the
provisions of this Chapter and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
   B.   Such receiver or trustee, within the one hundred twenty (120) days,
shall have executed an agreement, duly approved by the court having
jurisdiction in the premises, whereby such receiver or trustee assumes and
agrees to be bound by each and every provision of this Chapter and the
franchise granted to the grantee. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-41: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of the franchise to the contrary,
the grantee shall at all times comply with all laws and regulations of the
State and Federal government or any administrative agencies thereof; provided,
however, if any such State or Federal law or regulation shall require the
grantee to perform any service, or shall permit the grantee to perform any
service, or shall prohibit the grantee from performing any service, in conflict
with the terms of the franchise or of any law or regulation of the Village,
then as soon as possible following knowledge thereof, the grantee shall notify
the Village of the point of conflict believed to exist between such regulation
or law and the laws or regulations of the Village or the franchise.
   B.   If the Village determines that a material provision of this Chapter is
affected by any subsequent action of the State or Federal government, the
Village and the grantee shall negotiate to modify any of the provisions herein
to such reasonable extent as may be necessary to carry out the full intent and
purpose of this agreement. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-42: LANDLORD/TENANT:
   A.   Interference With Cable Service Prohibited: Neither the owner of any
multiple unit residential dwelling nor his agent or representative shall
interfere with the right of any tenant or lawful resident thereof to receive
cable television service, cable installation or maintenance from a cable
television grantee regulated by and lawfully operating under a valid and
existing franchise issued by the Village.
   B.   Penalties And Charges To Tenants For Service Prohibited: Neither the
owner of any multiple unit residential dwelling nor his agent or representative
shall penalize, charge or surcharge a tenant or resident or forfeit or threaten
to forfeit any right of such tenant or resident, or discriminate in any way
against such tenant or resident who requests or receives cable television
service from a grantee operating under a valid and existing cable television
franchise issued by the Village.
   C.   Reselling Service Prohibited: No person shall resell, without the
expressed, written consent of both the grantee and the Village, any cable
service, program or signal transmitted by a cable television grantee under a
franchise issued by the Village.
   D.   Protection Of Property Permitted: Nothing in this Chapter shall
prohibit a person from requiring that cable television system facilities
conform to laws and regulations and reasonable conditions necessary to protect
safety, functioning, appearance and value of premises or the convenience and
safety of persons or property.
   E.   Risks Assumed By Grantee: Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit a
person from requiring a grantee to agree to indemnify the owner, or his agents
or representatives for damages or from liability for damages caused by the
installation, operation, maintenance or removal of cable television facilities
prior to such installation. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-43: FINANCIAL, CONTRACTUAL, SHAREHOLDER AND SYSTEM DISCLOSURE:
   A.   No franchise will be granted to any applicant unless all requirements
and demands of the Village regarding financial, contractual, shareholder and
system disclosure have been met.
   B.   Applicants, including all shareholders and parties with any interest in
the applicant, shall fully disclose all agreements and undertakings, whether
written or oral, or implied with any person with respect to the franchise and
the proposed cable television system. The grantee of a franchise shall disclose
all other contracts to the Village as the contracts are made. This Section
shall include, but not be limited to, any agreements between local applicants
and national companies.
   C.   Applicants, including all shareholders and parties with any interest in
the applicant, shall submit all requested information as provided by the terms
of this Chapter or the application documents, which are incorporated herein by
reference. The requested information must be complete and verified as true by
the applicant.
   D.   Applicants, including all shareholders and parties with any interest in
the applicant, shall disclose the numbers of shares of stock, and the holders
thereof, and shall include the amount of consideration for each share of stock
and the nature of the consideration.
   E.   Applicants, including all shareholders and parties with any interest in
the applicant, shall disclose any information required by the application
documents regarding other cable systems in which they hold an interest of any
nature, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Locations of all other franchises and the dates of award for each
location;
      2.   Estimated construction costs and estimated completion dates for each
system;
      3.   Estimated number of miles of construction and number of miles
completed in each system as of the date of this application; and
      4.   Date for completion of construction as promised in the application
for each system.
   F.   Applicants, including all shareholders and parties with any interest in
the applicant, shall disclose any information required by the application
documents regarding pending applications for other cable systems, including,
but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Location of other franchise applications and date of application for
each system;
      2.   Estimated dates of franchise awards;
      3.   Estimated number of miles of construction; and
      4.   Estimated construction costs. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-44: FORCE MAJEURE:
Any delay, preemption, or other failure to perform, caused by factors beyond
the parties' reasonable control, such as an act of God, labor dispute,
nondelivery by suppliers, war, riot, technical breakdown of the cable system or
government, administrative, or judicial order or regulation, shall not result
in a default of the agreement. Each party shall exercise its reasonable efforts
to cure any such delays and the cause of such delays, and performance under the
terms of this agreement shall be excused for the period of time during which
such factor continues. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-45: PENALTIES:
For the violation of any of the following provisions of this Chapter, penalties
shall be chargeable to the letter of credit as follows and the Village may
determine the amount of the forfeiture for other violations which are not
specified in a sum not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each
violation, with each day constituting a separate violation:
   A.   Failure to furnish, maintain, or offer all cable services to any
potential subscriber within the Village upon order of the Village: two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) per day, per violation, for each day that such failure
occurs or continues;
   B.   Failure to obtain or file evidence of required insurance, construction
bond, performance bond, or other required financial security: two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) per day, per violation, for each day such failure occurs or
continues;
   C.   Failure to provide access to data, documents, records, or reports to
the Village as required by Sections
11-1-19,
11-1-29 through
11-1-31 and
11-1-37 of this Chapter: two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per day, per
violation, for each day such failure occurs or continues;
   D.   Failure to comply with applicable construction, operation, or
maintenance standards: two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per day, per
violation;
   E.   Failure to comply with a rate decision or refund order: five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per day, per violation, for each day such a violation occurs
or continues.
   F.   Any violations for noncompliance with the customer service standards of
Sections
11-1-23 through
11-1-25 of this Chapter the grantee shall pay one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) per day for each day, or part thereof, that such noncompliance
continues;
   G.   Any other violations of a franchise agreement to be determined by the
grantor in a public hearing but not specifically noted in this Section shall
not exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per day, per violation. (Ord.
98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-46: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Whenever the Village believes that the grantee has violated one or more
terms, conditions or provisions of the franchise, and wishes to impose monetary
penalties, a written notice shall be given to the grantee informing it of such
alleged violation or liability. The written notice shall describe in reasonable
detail the specific violation so as to afford the grantee an opportunity to
remedy the violation. The grantee shall have thirty (30) days subsequent to
receipt of the notice in which to correct the violation before the Village may
impose penalties unless the violation is of such a nature so as to require more
than thirty (30) days and the grantee proceeds diligently within the thirty
(30) days to correct the violation. In any case where the violation is not
cured within sixty (60) days of notice from the Village, or such other time as
the grantee and the Village may mutually agree to, the Village may proceed to
impose penalties pursuant to this Section.
   B.   The grantee may, within ten (10) days of receipt of notice, notify the
Village that there is a dispute as to whether a violation or failure has, in
fact, occurred. Such notice by the grantee to the Village shall specify with
particularity the matters disputed by the grantee and shall stay the running of
the thirty (30) day cure period pending board decision as required below. The
board shall hear the grantee's dispute. Grantee must be given at least fifteen
(15) days notice of the hearing. At the hearing, the grantee shall be entitled
to the right to present evidence and the right to be represented by counsel.
After the hearing, the Village shall provide grantee a copy of its action,
along with supporting documents. In the event the Village upholds the finding
of a violation, the grantee shall have thirty (30) days subsequent, or such
other time period as the grantee and the Village mutually agree, to correct the
violation.
   C.   The rights reserved to the Village under this Section are in addition
to all other rights of the Village whether reserved by this Chapter or
authorized by law or equity, and no action, proceeding or exercise of a right
with respect to penalties shall affect any other right the Village may have.
(Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
11-1-47: PURCHASE OF SYSTEM:
In the event that a franchise has been revoked or has not been renewed, the
Village shall have the option, to the extent then permitted by law, to purchase
the tangible assets of the grantee's cable television system previously
governed by the franchise at its fair market value, to assign such rights to
purchase, or to require removal of all grantee's property located within the
public ways of the Village at the grantee's expense. Such an option must be
exercised within ninety (90) days from the date of the revocation or expiration
of the franchise, the entry of a final judgment by a court reviewing the
question of the revocation or expiration, or the entry of a final order upon
appeal of the same, whichever is later. (Ord. 98-2054, 9-28-1998)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL FRANCHISE AGREEMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Franchise Agreement On File
11-2-1: FRANCHISE AGREEMENT ON FILE:
Refer to agreement as authorized by Ordinance 92-1838 on file in the Village
Clerk's office. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TELEPHONE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Franchise Agreement On File
11-3-1: FRANCHISE AGREEMENT ON FILE:
Refer to agreement as authorized by Ordinance 85-1681 on file in the Village
Clerk's office. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 4
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE AGREEMENT
SECTION:
11-4-1: Franchise Agreement On File
11-4-1: FRANCHISE AGREEMENT ON FILE:
Refer to agreement as authorized by Ordinance 74-1414 on file in the Village
Clerk's office. (1997 Code)
1CHAPTER 5
STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES ON RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
11-5-1: Incorporation
11-5-1: INCORPORATION:
The provisions of title 8, "Public Ways And Property", chapter 11, "Standards
For Construction Of Utility Facilities On Rights Of Way", of this code are
incorporated by reference into this chapter and shall be regulations that must
be complied with by new permittees who are subject to the other chapters of
this title. (Ord. 07-2456, 7-23-2007; amd. Ord. 07-2463, 11-19-2007)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THIS TITLE
SECTION:
11-6-1: Eligibility For Village Approvals, Certificates, Licenses And Permits
If Debt Owed To Village
11-6-1: ELIGIBILITY FOR VILLAGE APPROVALS, CERTIFICATES, LICENSES AND PERMITS
IF DEBT OWED TO VILLAGE:
See the provisions of Section
3-1-1(A) of this Code, which are incorporated by reference into this Title and
Chapter and are applicable to the grant or issuance of any Village approvals,
certificates, licenses or permits covered by this Title 11 (Franchises And
Utilities). (Ord. 22-3091, 7-11-2022)
