VILLAGE CODE
of
WINFIELD, ILLINOIS
1994
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-05-09, passed 5-15-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Winfield, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-05-09, passed May 15, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 95-6-3
ORDINANCE APPROVING CODIFICATION OF THE CODES
AND ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF WINFIELD
WHEREAS, the village of Winfield has previously authorized Sterling Codifiers
to prepare a codification of the codes and ordinances of the village of
Winfield; and
WHEREAS, the president and board of trustees of the village of Winfield have
determined that it is advisable and in the best interest of the village and its
residents to adopt the aforesaid codification and to supplement said
codification with ordinances of the village approved subsequent to its
preparation;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF WINFIELD, DU PAGE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.
The foregoing recitals shall be and are hereby incorporated in this section 1
as if they were fully set forth herein.
Section 2.
The codification of the ordinances of the village of Winfield, prepared by
Sterling Codifiers and dated 1994, is hereby adopted and approved.
Section 3.
Any ordinances of the village which have been adopted from and after the
submission of ordinances to Sterling Codifiers for codification are hereby
ratified and affirmed, and the village clerk is hereby directed to cause all
such ordinances, adopted previously or henceforth, to be sent to Sterling
Codifiers to be included in the village code, as appropriate.
Section 4.
All policies, resolutions and ordinances of the village which conflict with the
provisions of this ordinance shall be and are hereby repealed.
Section 5.
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval as provided by law.
      /s/   
      Village President
ATTEST:
/s/   
Village Clerk
ROLL CALL:   "AYES"   MAZURCZAK, YORK, BAJOR, CZECH, FAIRBAIRN
      "NAYS"   NONE
      ABSENT   NEWITT
PASSED:      June 8, 1995
APPROVED:      June 8, 1995
PUBLISHED:      June 8, 1995 in pamphlet form
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official code of the village. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the WINFIELD VILLAGE CODE and it is
hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be kept up to
date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal document. (1994 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1994 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1994 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
village board. The village clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the village
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the village and shall
be returned to the office of the clerk when directed to do so by order of the
village board. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
village; and all special ordinances. (1994 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1994 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1994 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The village board of trustees hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these
rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the village has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the village's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1994 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the village president and board of trustees
of the village.
CODE: The municipal code of Winfield, DuPage County, Illinois, and amendments
thereto.
COUNTY: The county of DuPage, state of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
village of Winfield".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the village is hereby fixed and determined so
that said fiscal year shall commence on May 1, 1921, and on May 1 of each year
thereafter.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the village
of Winfield".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Winfield, county of DuPage, state of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The village president may be referred to as "mayor" of the
village. The term "village president" as used in this code or any ordinance,
resolution, motion or other action of the corporate authorities shall be
construed as meaning the mayor; and the term "mayor" wherever so used shall be
construed to mean the village president.
The title "mayor" as used in the minutes of the meetings of the corporate
authorities or any other official document shall be construed as meaning
"village president".
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (Ord. 5, 6-9-1921; amd. Ord. 300, 8-30-1963; 1994 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATIVE FEES, LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION
SECTION:
1-4-1: Administrative Fees
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Indemnification Of Certain Officials
1-4-1: ADMINISTRATIVE FEES:
   A.   The administrative fee schedule below provides for the administrative
fees associated with penalties consistent with applicable Village of Winfield
administrative service fees.
      ADMINISTRATIVE FEE SCHEDULE
Criminal incident report:  
Criminal incident report:                  
 Black and white                         $0.15 per page
                                          After first 50 pages
 Color                                   $ 0.15 per page
Fingerprinting fees (Wednesdays 8:00 A.M.  
to 4:00 P.M.):
 Access and review                       30.00
 Resident (any card type)                $15.00 first card, $5.00 each
                                          additional card
 Nonresident (any card type)             $25.00 first card, $5.00 each
                                          additional card
 Liquor license applicant                $110.00
Photo reproduction:                        
 Individual prints (35 mm)               5.00 each
 Individual prints (digital)             2.50 each
 Read only CD-ROM                        15.00 each
 Read only floppy (1.44 mg)              5.00 per floppy
Traffic crash report:                     5.00 per report
 Reconstruction report                   20.00 per report
 Large scale diagrams                    10.00 per report
Video reproduction:                        
 Small mpeg CD-ROM                       25.00 each
 Large mpeg CD-ROM                       40.00 each
 Large magnetic media                    35.00 each
Miscellaneous fees:                        
 Administrative booking fee              50.00
 Administrative tow fee                  450.00
 Business license renewal                 
 FOIA                                    DNA
 Solicitor application fee               $15.00 for 60 days
 
(Ord. 2012-08-19, 8-2-2012)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1994 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1994 Code)
1-4-4: INDEMNIFICATION OF CERTAIN OFFICIALS:
   A.   To the fullest extent permitted by the Constitution of the State of
Illinois of 1970, and applicable law, each of the following officials and
employees of the Village, viz.:
      1.   All persons who were, now are, or shall be lawfully elected,
appointed or employed officials of the Village;
      2.   All members of commissions, boards or other units operated by and
under the jurisdiction of the Village;
      3.   All employees and all persons who perform a service on a volunteer
basis for the Village and under its direction and control and any persons
providing services to the Village under any mutual aid or similar agreement;
      4.   Police and Fire Pension Boards, their trustees, commissioners and
public officials; and
      5.   Employees and public officials of the Village serving on the board
of any independent governmental or intergovernmental or not for profit
organization, in which the Village has an affiliation, upon the following
conditions: Service on the board is approved by the Village and furthers the
interest of the Village;
shall be indemnified, defended and held harmless by the Village from and
against all liabilities, expenses of investigation, judgments and amounts paid
in settlement which may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred or paid by such
official or employee in connection with or resulting from any claim made
against him, or any action, suit, proceeding or investigation in which he may
be involved, by reason of his being or having been such official or such
employee of the Village, whether or not he continues to be such official or
employee at the time of such claim, action, suit, proceeding or investigation.
   B.   The foregoing indemnity shall not extend to any of the following:
      1.   Any liability or cost with respect to any matter as to which such
official or employee is finally adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be guilty of bad faith, or actual malice, or wilful and wanton misconduct in
the performance of his duties as such official or employee;
      2.   Any payment, expense or cost arising out of a settlement of any
claim, action, suit or proceeding, unless: a) such settlement shall be approved
by the court having jurisdiction over such claim, action, suit or proceeding,
with express knowledge of the existence of the indemnification provided hereby,
or b) such settlement shall have been made upon the written opinion of
independent legal counsel selected by the Village Board, to the effect that
there is no reasonable ground for any finding of bad faith, or of actual
malice, or wilful and wanton misconduct on the part of such official or
employee and that the anticipated cost of such settlement will not
substantially exceed the estimated cost and expense of defending such claim,
action, suit or proceeding to a final conclusion;
      3.   Any liability or judgment payable to the Village itself;
      4.   The cost of independent legal representation in any such action,
suit or proceeding if the Village offers or otherwise indicates its willingness
to provide a legal defense with respect to such claim, action, suit,
proceeding, or investigation. (Ord. 2007-9-49, 9-21-2007)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Village President
1-5-2: Meetings Of The Board
1-5-3: Powers
1-5-4: Committees
1-5-5: Rules Of Procedure For Village Board Meetings And Committee Of The Whole
Meetings
1-5-1: VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
   A.   Election, Term Of Office: The village president shall be elected for a
term of four (4) years, and he shall be the president of the board of trustees,
as is provided by statute 1 .
   B.   Bond, Oath: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the
president shall give a bond with sureties to be approved by the board of
trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties, in the sum
of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). He shall take the oath of office as
prescribed by statute 2 .
   C.   Powers And Duties: The village president shall be the official head of
the village for all legal purposes and shall have all such powers as may be
granted by statute or village ordinance. He shall be president of the board of
trustees and shall preside at all meetings. He shall be ex officio member of
all village board committees and commissions, unless precluded by law. He shall
perform all such duties and make all such appointments as may be required of
him by statute or village ordinance. He shall devote to the duties of his
office whatever time the faithful discharge thereof may require.
   D.   Designation Of Duties: Whenever there is a question as to the
respective powers or duties of any appointed officer of the village, except as
to those duties prescribed by statute, this shall be settled by the president;
and he shall have the power to delegate to any such officer any duty which is
to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform the duty.
   E.   Designation Of President Pro Tem:
      1.   Policy Statement: Good government demands, in the absence or
disability of the village president, that another elected official be
continuously and readily available to fulfill the duties of the office of
village president, especially in cases of emergency. The person selected to act
in the stead of the village president should be an experienced and committed
trustee who has an excellent record of attendance at village board meetings.
This person should also have a demonstrated ability to conduct and facilitate
meetings and to make decisions in emergency situations.
      2.   Designation Of President Pro Tem; Powers And Duties: Pursuant to 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-35-35, due to the temporary absence of the
village president because of an incapacity to perform official duties, but the
incapacity does not create a vacancy in the office, a trustee shall be
authorized to perform the functions and duties the village president is
empowered to perform, but only under the following circumstances:
         a.   The village president is absent from the village and, for the
purpose of implementing the authority of the designated president pro tem, has
notified the village manager's office of such absence; or
         b.   The village manager has been notified that the village president
is under a temporary disability which prevents the president from performing
his or her duties; or
         c.   Immediate action is required of the village president and good
faith attempts by the office of the village manager to locate him or her have
been unsuccessful within the time in which the action is required.
      3.   Selection: The designated president pro tem shall be elected as
follows:
         a.   The village president or any trustee acting, in open session, may
nominate without comment, a trustee for the office of designated president pro
tem; provided that in all instances the president shall have the right to make
the first nomination. No trustee may nominate or second the nomination of him
or herself.
         b.   Upon receiving a second, the nominated trustee shall become a
candidate for this office. Nominations may then continue until a motion to
close nominations is approved.
         c.   Nominations shall be closed on the motion, second and the
majority vote of trustees present at the meeting.
      4.   Term Of Designation: The initial term of the designated president
pro tem shall commence on the day of election and terminate on April 30 of the
following year. Thereafter, the designated president pro tem shall be elected
at the first regular meeting in May, and serve until April 30 of the following
year or until a successor has been selected. The designated president pro tem
may be removed at any time by four (4) affirmative votes of the president and
trustees voting jointly. If such removal occurs, a successor shall be
expeditiously selected for the remainder of the term in accordance with
subsection E3, "Selection", of this section.
      5.   Absence Or Disability Of Designated President Pro Tem: If any one of
the circumstances described in subsection E2 of this section is found to exist
as to both the village president and the designated president pro tem, the
board of trustees shall elect one of its members to act as president pro tem,
who during the absence or disability of the president and the designated
president pro tem shall temporarily perform the duties of the president.
   F.   Vacancy In Office: The office of village president becomes vacant as
provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-50, and the vacancy shall be
filled as provided therein.
   G.   Emergency Interim Village President: The village president shall
designate in writing and file with the village clerk and village manager
successive emergency interim village presidents pursuant to the emergency
interim executive succession act 3  to act in the event of the unavailability
of the president or the president pro tem during an emergency, as provided by
the act. (Ord. 08-5-25, 5-1-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/5-3-1.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/5-3-9.
3 1. 5 ILCS 275/1 et seq.
1-5-2: MEETINGS OF THE BOARD:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings and regular committee of the
whole meetings of the village board of trustees shall be established by
resolution duly adopted by the president and board of trustees prior to the
beginning of each new calendar year. In general, the regular meetings of the
village board of trustees shall be held on the first and third Thursdays of
each and every month, but a different Thursday may be used to accommodate legal
holidays, months in which there are five (5) Thursdays, and other circumstances
where there may be a scheduling conflict. Every meeting may be adjourned from
day to day by the village president in the event of a riot, fire or other
extreme emergency or by a majority vote of the members of the board of trustees
present at such meeting. (Ord. 2013-06-18, 6-6-2013)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the village president and board
of trustees may be called by the president or any three (3) members of the
board of trustees at any time. Notice of special meetings of the president and
board of trustees shall be given in writing to the president and to the
trustees of the village, either personally or by mail, properly addressed to
them respectively, and if such notice is given by mail, at least twenty four
(24) hours shall intervene between the time of mailing of such notice in the
village and the time of the holding of such special meeting. Such notices shall
be required to set forth only in general terms the object for which such
special meeting is called. In the case of a special meeting called at a regular
meeting of the village board of trustees, written notice is not required to be
given to any member of the corporate authorities who was present at the time
the special meeting was called.
   C.   Place Where Meetings Held: All meetings of the village president and
board of trustees, regular, adjourned or special, and all meetings of
committees appointed by the village president shall be held in the village hall
in the village, unless another location is designated by the village president
and board of trustees. (Ord. 2, 5-26-1921; amd. 1994 Code)
1-5-3: POWERS:
The president and board of trustees shall have all the powers granted to them
by statute, and all powers inherent to conducting the affairs of the village as
allowed by law. (1994 Code)
1-5-4: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Committee Of The Whole: The village board of trustees will sit as a
committee of the whole when necessary to discuss such matters as they so deem
necessary. The president shall assign certain areas of expertise to each
trustee for reporting purposes.
   B.   Temporary Committees: The president shall also appoint any temporary
committees he deems necessary. (Ord. 473, 5-8-1975; amd. 1994 Code)
1-5-5: RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS AND COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
MEETINGS:
   A.   Village Board Meetings:
      1.   Administration:
         a.   The village president (or acting village president) shall preside
at all meetings at which the president (or acting village president) is present
as the chairperson.
         b.   In the event of the president's absence due to incapacity to
perform official duties, a president pro tem shall be selected by the corporate
authorities, pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-35-35. The
president pro tem shall preside at all meetings and shall have all the powers
of the president until the president is capable of performing his or her
official duties.
         c.   In the event of the president's temporary absence, a temporary
chairperson shall preside at the meeting pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3.1-35-35. The temporary chairperson shall only have such authority
as is permitted by statute. The trustees present at the meeting from which the
president is absent shall select a temporary chairperson from its membership,
by majority vote.
         d.   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the president of the village
with a four (4) year term, the board of trustees shall elect one of its members
as the acting village president as provided in subsection 1-5-1E of this
chapter.
         e.   Under the circumstances outlined above, the village manager shall
begin the meeting by announcing that the president will not be present at the
regular or specially called meeting of the board, and using procedures outlined
in "Robert's Rules Of Order", shall solicit nominations for trustees to serve
as the acting chairperson. At the completion of the selection process, the
village manager shall yield the chair.
      2.   Voting:
         a.   One Vote: Each trustee shall have one vote.
         b.   Majority: A majority of trustees or one-half (1/2) of the
trustees and the village president shall constitute a quorum thereof, but a
smaller number may meet to adjourn from time to time or to compel attendance of
absentees.
         c.   Majority Vote: Unless otherwise provided, all resolutions,
motions and ordinances shall be decided by the majority vote of the trustees
present.
         d.   President's Vote: The village president shall not vote on any
ordinance, resolution or motion, except:
            (1)   Where the vote of the trustees has resulted in a tie; or
            (2)   Where one-half (1/2) of the trustees elected have voted in
favor of an ordinance, resolution or motion, even though there is no tie vote;
or
            (3)   Where a vote of greater than a majority of the corporate
authorities is required by state statute to adopt an ordinance, resolution or
motion; or
            (4)   Where the village president is otherwise entitled to or
required by state or federal law to vote.
In the above instances (subsections A2d(1) through A2d(4) of this section), the
village president shall vote. Nothing in this section shall deprive an acting
village president or president pro tem from voting in the capacity of trustee,
but he/she shall not be entitled to another vote in the capacity as acting
village president or president pro tem.
         e.   Passage: The following regulations pertain to the promulgation of
direction, policy and law by the village board:
            (1)   Motions provide specific instructions, intent and concurrence
of the village board without the formality of a resolution, for which there may
be follow-on action, such as award of bids subject to the execution of a
contract approved as to form by the village attorney; or indicate approval of
the village board, as in the case of approving an appointment to a village
office. Motions may be considered for adoption at the meeting at which the
matter is presented under new business or the consent agenda.
            (2)   Resolutions are formal expressions of direction by the board
of trustees, authorizing a specific action to be carried out that requires
documentation in the form of a resolution. Examples of resolutions include
establishing employment benefits and compensation; authorizing the expenditure
of funds; directing the submittal of grant applications where the village is
expected to financially participate. A resolution may be adopted at the meeting
at which the matter is presented. A resolution is presented under new business
or the consent agenda, if it deals with routine matters.
            (3)   Ordinances are official acts of the board of trustees to
create or amend existing law, approve budgets; or are used when specifically
required as the form of action by state or federal statute or regulation.
            (4)   The passage of a motion, resolution, or ordinance to create
any liability against the village, or for the expenditure or appropriation of
money, shall require the vote of a majority of the corporate authorities (all
trustees elected and the village president).
            (5)   The passage of a motion, resolution or ordinance for the sale
of village property shall require the vote of three- fourths (3/4) of the
corporate authorities.
            (6)   Each such motion, resolution, or ordinance shall be reduced
to writing and presented to the trustees and president prior to a vote being
taken.
         f.   Consent Agenda: At any meeting, the trustees may by unanimous
consent take a single vote by yeas and nays on the passage of any two (2) or
more of the designated orders, resolutions or motions placed together for
voting purposes in a single group. The single vote shall be entered separately
in the journal under the designation "consent agenda". A voice vote shall be
taken on approval of the consent agenda and recorded in the minutes. The
minutes of previous proceedings and the payment of bills will be provisionally
included on the consent agenda.
      3.   Veto:
         a.   The president shall have the right to veto any resolution or
motion identified in subsection A2e of this section or any ordinance.
         b.   The village president may veto any one or more sums appropriated
in any ordinance, resolution, or motion making that appropriation, and if so,
the remainder shall be effective. However, the village president may veto an
entire ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation.
         c.   If vetoed, the matter shall be returned to the next regularly
scheduled village board meeting with the written objections of the president.
         d.   If the president fails to provide written objections for the veto
to the trustees within five (5) days of said veto, the ordinance, resolution or
motion shall become effective despite the absence of the president's signature.
         e.   If the president does provide written objections within the time
specified, the trustees shall reconsider the matter at the next regular board
meeting. If a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees elected to the village
board shall reconfirm the vote first taken and vetoed by the president, the
matter shall be approved. A vote of less than two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees
shall not override the veto, and the matter will be defeated.
      4.   Rules Of Procedure:
         a.   "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall be followed for the regular board
meeting except where in conflict with these rules.
         b.   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may
be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the trustees present
at the meeting.
         c.   The chairperson shall decide all questions of order and in all
cases not provided for in these rules or the Illinois municipal code.
         d.   A trustee may appeal to the village board from a ruling by the
chairperson, and, if the appeal is seconded, the trustee making the appeal may
briefly state the reason for the appeal, and the chairperson may briefly
explain the ruling, but there shall be no debate on the appeal. The chairperson
shall then put the question, "Shall the decision of the chair be sustained?".
If a majority of the trustees present vote "no", the decision of the
chairperson shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained.
         e.   A trustee discussing a question shall address the chairperson,
and a trustee shall not be deemed to have the floor until recognized by the
chairperson.
         f.   When a question is before the board, no motion shall be in order
but these:
            (1)   To adjourn;
            (2)   To lay on the table;
            (3)   For the previous question;
            (4)   To postpone indefinitely;
            (5)   To postpone to a certain date; or
            (6)   To amend.
These motions shall be privileged and have precedence in the order which they
are made and are to succeed each other by this rule. The motions to adjourn, to
lay on the table, and for the previous question shall be decided without
debate.
         g.   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order, except:
            (1)   When a different trustee is in possession of the floor;
            (2)   When the trustees are voting;
            (3)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion;
            (4)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken, and the previous question shall be as follows: "Shall the main question
now be put?".
         h.   A vote may be reconsidered at any time during the same meeting or
at the next regular meeting held thereafter, unless prior to the next meeting,
rights of third parties have intervened. A motion for reconsideration, once
having been made and decided in the negative shall not be renewed, nor shall a
motion to reconsider be reconsidered. No motion to reconsider the approval or
denial of the recommendation of any advisory body required to hold public
hearings shall be entertained except at the same meeting at which the original
action was taken. When a motion to reconsider is made and passed at the same
meeting as the passage of the original motion, the original motion shall be
treated as tabled to a later date certain.
            (1)   A motion to reconsider must be made by a trustee who voted on
the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that when a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes are required by statute for the passage or
adoption of such motion, then in such case a motion to reconsider may be made
only by those who voted in the affirmative on such question.
            (2)   No vote by the trustees shall be reconsidered or rescinded at
a special meeting unless there are present at the special meeting as many
trustees as were present when the original vote was taken.
         i.   If a village board member is unable to attend a properly
scheduled village board meeting, they are required to contact the office of the
village manager not less than three (3) hours prior to the meeting to inform
him or her of their absence, unless the circumstances of their inability to
attend precludes access to a telephone. In the event that the village board
member fails to call and attend the meeting, they will be marked in the
official meeting minutes as "Absent - Unexcused".
         j.   The village board may compel the attendance of absent members who
are not excused at properly called meetings of the village board in order to
achieve a quorum. If it is the will of the majority of the village board
members present, the president shall direct the chief of police or designee to
attempt to contact the absent member to inform him or her of the need for their
presence to achieve a quorum. Those failing to respond to the action of the
village president shall be subject to a fine in the amount of fifty dollars
($50.00).
         k.   Personal conduct of village officials at village board meetings:
            (1)   Prohibitions: No village board member or member of staff is
permitted to act or appear in a disgraceful or disorderly manner at any village
board meeting, which includes, but is not limited to:
               (A)   Continuing to speak without being recognized by the
president;
               (B)   Interrupting other recognized speakers;
               (C)   Disregarding a ruling or order from the president;
               (D)   Making audible side remarks during the deliberations of
the village board;
               (E)   Using profanity;
               (F)   Walking out or across the boardroom while the presiding
officer of the village board is putting a question to a vote;
               (G)   Engaging in arguments with members of the public in
attendance;
               (H)   Engaging in physical movements that are perceived to be
threatening; or
               (I)   Using belligerent, slanderous, threatening, abusive terms
to describe village officers, village employees, village contractors, members
of the audience, or members of the community.
            (2)   Censure: To censure a village official is to warn him or her
that if a certain behavior continues, the next step in discipline could be
expulsion from the meeting. The purpose of a censure is to reprimand an
official for a misconduct incident during a village board meeting or outside of
the meeting, as addressed in subsection A4k(1) of this section, or chapter 9,
"Ethics", of this title with the hope of reforming him or her so that he or she
will not behave in the same way again. A motion to censure should be brought up
under either new business or trustee comments sections of the regular meeting
agenda. A motion to censure, outlining the particulars of the alleged incident
of misconduct is made and seconded. The motion is subject to discussion.
Passage of a motion of censure is subject to a vote of the majority of trustees
present at the subject meeting.
            (3)   Expelling A Village Board Member From A Meeting: Any village
board member(s) acting in a manner that is contrary to the personal conduct
provisions of this code and failing to obey an order of the president to
discontinue said misconduct incident may be subject to being expelled from the
rest of the meeting. In order to seek expulsion, a motion to expel the board
member shall be made and seconded by village board members. The motion for
expulsion shall include findings of fact. The village board member subject to
the motion of expulsion shall be provided the opportunity to show cause as to
why they should not be expelled. The appealing village board member shall limit
arguments to those pertinent to the findings of fact that are part of the
motion. The president shall call the question following the board member's
appeal. A vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all members then holding office is
required for an expulsion to take place. If the motion to expel is passed, the
president or senior trustee, in the event that the president is the subject of
the expulsion vote, shall request that the police chief or designee escort the
expelled board member out of the place of the village board meeting. If the
board member does not cooperate with the order, he or she shall be charged with
disorderly conduct. No trustee may be expelled a second time for the same
incident.
            (4)   Prosecution: Any person can refer allegations of municipal
officer misconduct or misfeasance to the state's attorney office for
prosecution. The state's attorney shall decide the merits of the allegations
for the purpose of prosecution. A municipal official who is found to be guilty
of a culpable omission of duty, or who is guilty of wilful and corrupt
oppression, misconduct, or misfeasance in the discharge of the duties of office
is guilty of a business offense, and on conviction shall be fined not less than
five hundred one dollars ($501.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) as provided by state law. The court ordering the conviction shall
enter an order removing the convicted officer from office.
      5.   The Agenda:
         a.   Prior to each meeting of the village board of trustees, an agenda
shall be prepared by the village manager, under the direction of the village
president.
         b.   An item may be placed upon the regular agenda by the village
president or upon direction from a majority of the village trustees present
during committee of the whole.
         c.   The village board shall not consider items not generally set
forth in the agenda unless there is consent of two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees
present at the meeting. In no case shall the village board take action on an
item in violation of the open meetings act.
         d.   The order of business at meetings of the village board shall
generally be as follows:
            (1)   Regular meeting:
               (A)   Call to order.
               (B)   Roll call.
               (C)   Pledge Of Allegiance.
               (D)   Correspondence.
               (E)   Public forum for audience participation. Individual
comments are limited to three (3) minutes per person, and the total time for
public comments is limited to thirty (30) minutes, unless leave is granted by
the village president.
               (F)   Consent agenda.
               (G)   Nonconsent agenda for items requiring a roll call vote.
               (H)   Village board committee reports. Committee reports are
limited to three (3) minutes each.
               (I)   Village officials' comments - village treasurer, village
manager, village attorney, village clerk, village trustees, village president.
All village officials' comments are limited to three (3) minutes except by
leave of the president. An official may speak only once unless granted leave by
the village president.
               (J)   Pending future business.
               (K)   Adjournment.
            (2)   Committee of the whole 1  (if necessary):
               (A)   Agenda items. Public comment shall be permitted on agenda
items in order in groups of three (3). For example, at the beginning of agenda
item #1, the president shall call for public comment on the first three (3) COW
agenda items. Comments are limited to three (3) minutes per speaker.
               (B)   Request for future committee of the whole agenda items
from trustees.
               (C)   Village board comments. Comments are limited to three (3)
minutes per speaker. Trustees may speak only once unless granted leave from the
village president.
            (3)   Executive session (if necessary).
            (4)   Adjournment.
         e.   The consent agenda shall include all items of a routine and
noncontroversial nature. The proposed consent agenda shall include a specific
enumeration of the various items and the proposed action relating thereto. Any
item on the proposed consent agenda may be removed at the request of a trustee
and voted on separately.
         f.   Public participation at village meetings is encouraged. A period
of time at each regular meeting of the village board shall be made available
for public comments. A citizen shall be permitted to speak upon being
recognized by the chairperson. The citizen shall stand (if possible), and state
his/her name prior to making comments. While not required, it may be helpful to
the Village Board for citizens to state if they are a resident of the Village.
Should comments of a personal or derogatory nature be expressed, the chair may
immediately terminate the opportunity to speak. Individual comments are limited
to three (3) minutes per person, and the total time for public comments is
limited to thirty (30) minutes, unless leave is granted by the village
president.
         g.   No person other than the village president, or a village trustee
or other village official or employee or invited guest shall address the
regular meeting outside of public comments, except that, upon being recognized
by the chairperson, a citizen may address the meeting on any issue being
discussed by the board. This decision is at the discretion of the chairperson
or upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees present.
         h.   All legislation must be presented to the committee of the whole
at a previous meeting prior to enactment, unless it is determined by the
village board that expedited action is required to preserve the health, safety
and general well being of the community, or to meet a deadline imposed by
statutory requirement or an outside agency which requires that the matter be
considered as an emergency measure. An emergency may be declared by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of the trustees elected. If the emergency motion passes, the
legislation can proceed for consideration, provided that the reason for the
extraordinary action is detailed in the preamble of the ordinance.
         i.   The adjournment of the meeting shall occur at or before ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M., provided that the board may suspend this rule by a
majority vote of the corporate authorities present.
         j.   Any business not completed before the adjournment of a meeting
shall be automatically placed on the agenda of the next appropriate meeting,
unless the trustees otherwise direct.
      6.   Minutes:
         a.   Minutes of the meeting shall be prepared by the village clerk,
deputy clerk or person designated by the village president in the absence of
the village clerk and deputy clerk, and submitted for approval by the trustees
at the next regular meeting.
         b.   The village clerk has discretion to compile said minutes in his/
her chosen format and content provided that, at a minimum, said minute format
and content complies with local and state law.
         c.   In accordance with the standards set forth by 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 120/2.06, the following minimum requirements are established for
minutes of the Winfield village board:
            (1)   The date, time, and place of the meeting;
            (2)   The members recorded as either present or absent;
            (3)   Type of meeting being held, e.g., whether regular or special;
            (4)   A summary of the discussion on all matters proposed,
deliberated or decided, motions made by whom, motions seconded by whom, and a
record of the vote; the summary shall include a brief description of the nature
of the topic of discussion or action, and summary of comments made, not
quotations;
            (5)   On a motion to go into a closed meeting, the minutes must
contain the vote of each member and the identification of the specific
exception allowing such closed meeting; and
            (6)   If there is a closed meeting on probable or imminent
litigation, the basis for the finding that the matter discussed was a matter of
probable or imminent litigation must be specified in the minutes.
         d.   Any village board member can request a correction or amendment to
the minutes. Village board members should contact the village clerk no later
than Tuesday before a scheduled board meeting with their proposed changes,
which will allow the clerk time to review the audiotape to ensure that the
requested amendment was verbalized at the meeting, and if so to make the change
to the minutes and present the amended minutes to the village board on the day
of the meeting for approval. Any changes shall be highlighted. During a regular
meeting at which approval of a prior village board meeting minutes is being
considered, the president shall ask the members of the village board if other
changes are requested. Requested changes shall be made in the form of a motion,
subject to being seconded and voted upon by the village board. The village
clerk may request that the village president postpone approval of the minutes
for the purpose of verifying the proposed correction or amendment, based on a
review of the video and/or audio tape of the meeting. Unless the matter is
postponed, the minutes shall be amended as proposed if the motion passes by a
majority vote.
         e.   No board member shall request that the village clerk amend the
minutes in regard to a statement of another member of the village board,
village staff, or the general public prior to the village board meeting at
which the pertinent minutes are scheduled to be approved. The appropriate
procedure under these circumstances is for the village board member to raise
the proposed changes for another member's statements during the agenda item
"approval of the meeting minutes". Unless the subject member of the village
board, village staff, or the general public that made the statement consents to
the change in person at the village board meeting where the change is
requested, the village president shall withdraw consideration of the approval
of said minutes from the agenda, to provide an opportunity for the village
clerk to review the audiotape to ensure that the requested amendment was
verbalized at the meeting, and if so to make the change to the minutes and
present the amended minutes to the village board at a future meeting. If the
village clerk finds that the proposed changes are inconsistent with what was
verbalized, he or she shall report said findings during the next village board
meeting, under the agenda item "approval of the meeting minutes".
         f.   The village board shall vote on the minutes as presented and/or
amended at the next meeting, unless withdrawn by the president for verification
of the proposed amendments by the village clerk as provided in subsection A6d
or A6e of this section.
         g.   Approved meeting minutes shall be available to the public within
seven (7) days after the village board meeting at which they were approved.
      7.   Priorities: When a consultant or other person or company paid by the
village has a matter on the agenda before the board, this item shall be given
priority in order to minimize the expense to the village.
   B.   Committee Of The Whole Meetings 2 :
      1.   The above rules shall, to the extent practicable, govern the
procedure of the committee of the whole.
      2.   The atmosphere in these meetings is intended to be more informal,
and public participation is encouraged.
      3.   Matters coming before the committee from an advisory body, such as
the plan commission, shall be presented to the committee of the whole prior to
being considered by the village board.
         a.   Matters coming before the committee from an advisory body shall
not be presented to the committee less than fourteen (14) days after the
recommendation has been officially made by the advisory body.
         b.   A representative of the advisory body shall attend the committee
of the whole meeting at such time as the recommendation of the body is
discussed. This representative should be prepared to present the recommendation
and answer questions.
      4.   Two (2) or more village trustees may request an item be placed on
the committee of the whole agenda if the request is received by the village
manager no later than the second Monday before the village board meeting for
which the request is being made. (Ord. 2013-06-18, 6-6-2013; amd. Ord. 2020-02-
02, 2-20-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection B of this section.
2 1. See also subsection A5d of this section for order of business.
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Bonds
1-6-2: Salaries
1-6-3: Village Clerk
1-6-4: Village Manager
1-6-5: Village Collector
1-6-6: Equal Employment Opportunity
1-6-7: Assessing And Determining Claims Under The Public Safety Employee
Benefits Act
1-6-8: Village Personnel Policy
1-6-1: BONDS:
The following officers of the Village shall, before entering upon the duties of
their offices, be provided with a bond with surety to be approved by the Board
of Trustees, payable to the Village, in the penal sums as provided hereinafter,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of said offices and the
payment of monies received by said officers according to law and the ordinances
of the Village:
 
President              $ 50,000.00
Clerk                  50,000.00
Treasurer              1,000,000.00
Manager/Budget Officer 50,000.00
 
(Ord. 1, 5-26-1921; amd. 1994 Code)
1-6-2: SALARIES:
   A.   President: The salary of the Village President shall be one thousand
eight hundred dollars ($1,800.00) per year, payable in semiannual installments
of nine hundred dollars ($900.00) each.
   B.   Trustees: The salaries of the members of the Board of Trustees shall be
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per year, payable in semiannual
installments of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) each.
   C.   Clerk: The salary of the Village Clerk shall be one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per year, payable in semiannual installments of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) each. In addition, the Village Clerk
shall receive a stipend of fifty dollars ($50.00) per Village Board meeting
actually attended; effective May 1, 2009. This stipend shall be paid monthly.
   D.   Treasurer: The salary of the Village Treasurer shall be one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per year, payable in semiannual installments
of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) each.
   E.   Liquor Commissioner 1 : The salary of the Liquor Commissioner shall be
three hundred dollars ($300.00) per year, payable in semiannual installments of
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) each. (Ord. 08-5-24, 5-1-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-3-2 of this Code.
1-6-3: VILLAGE CLERK:
   A.   Election; Qualification; Term: The Clerk shall be a qualified elector
of the Village who shall have resided within the Village at least one year next
preceding his election. The Clerk shall be elected for a term of four (4)
years, and until his successor is elected and qualified, as provided by
statute.
   B.   Bond, Oath, Salary: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the
Village Clerk shall give a bond with sureties to be approved by the Board of
Trustees conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties in the sum as
set forth under section
1-6-1 of this chapter. The Clerk shall take the oath of office as prescribed by
statute. The Clerk shall receive such salary for his services as is provided in
subsection 1-6-2C of this chapter.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The Village Clerk shall have all the powers and
perform all the duties now and hereafter provided by the laws of this State and
the ordinances of the Village.
   D.   Deputy Clerk:
      1.   Office Created, Appointment: There is hereby created the Office of
Deputy Clerk. The Village Clerk is authorized to appoint a Deputy Clerk who
shall have the power and duty to execute all documents required by any law or
ordinance to be executed by the Village Clerk, and affix the Seal of the
Village thereto whenever required.
      2.   Affix Signature: When signing any documents, the deputy clerk shall
sign the name of the village clerk followed by the word "By" and the deputy
clerk's own name and the words "Deputy Clerk".
      3.   Powers And Duties: The powers and duties herein described shall be
exercised by such deputy clerk only in the absence of the village clerk from
his office, and only when either written direction has been given by the
village clerk to exercise such power, or the village president and board of
trustees have determined by resolution that the village clerk is temporarily or
permanently incapacitated to perform such function.
Such deputy clerk shall have the authority and power herein described, and such
further power and authority as may be provided by statute. (1994 Code)
1-6-4: VILLAGE MANAGER:
   A.   Appointment: The village president and board of trustees (hereinafter
referred to as the "corporate authorities") are hereby authorized to employ a
village manager. Such manager shall be appointed by the village president, with
the advice and consent of the board of trustees.
   B.   Chief Administrator; Powers And Duties: The village manager, subject to
the direction of the corporate authorities, shall be the chief administrator of
the village, and shall be responsible to the corporate authorities for the
proper management of village affairs. To that end, the village manager shall
have the following powers and duties:
      1.   Execute Directives: Promptly execute the directives of the corporate
authorities.
      2.   Serve As Liaison: Cooperate with and provide liaison to such
advisory boards and commissions that the corporate authorities have and may
from time to time create and shall provide assistance and ongoing liaison with
any community oriented group as may be required.
      3.   Supervise Departments: Supervise and coordinate the work of all
departments of the village including the police department and employees
thereof.
      4.   Enforce Laws And Ordinances: Shall see that all laws and ordinances
of the village are enforced and that all franchises granted by and all
contracts with the village are faithfully kept and performed. (Ord. 93-6-1, 6-
10-1993)
      5.   Hire And Fire Employees: Have the authority to hire and fire and
promote all employees necessary for the proper functioning of the village
except those subject to the jurisdiction of the fire and police commission and
department heads, including the chief of police. The hiring or firing or
demotion of department heads or the promotion of employees to that position
shall be subject to the approval of a majority of the corporate authorities
then holding office, including the village president. The department heads of
the village shall be the finance director, chief of police, the public works
superintendent and the community development director.
      6.   Budget Preparation: Prepare budgets and submit such budgets,
together with his opinions and recommendations covering their important
features, to the corporate authorities for their review and approval. The
village manager shall assume the responsibility for the administration of the
budget after its adoption.
      7.   Purchase Materials, Supplies, Equipment: Purchase, as required, all
materials, supplies, and equipment for which funds are provided in the budget,
provided that no purchase shall be made, contract let, or obligation incurred
for any item or service which exceeds the current budget appropriation without
a supplemental appropriation therefor by the board of trustees, and further,
provided that the authority of the village manager to authorize purchase orders
or contracts, or to expend the funds of the village, shall be subject to the
limitations set forth in the village's ordinances, resolutions and policies,
which include a purchase order limit of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00)
without village board approval, as per village of Winfield purchasing policy,
adopted July 9, 1992, or as otherwise provided by law.
      8.   Expenditure Program Preparation: Prepare long range capital
expenditure programs for the village for consideration and approval in concept
by the corporate authorities. The village manager shall keep informed on
available financial assistance grants and advise the corporate authorities of
Winfield's eligibility for same.
      9.   Administrative Complaints: Be responsible for investigating all
complaints received in relation to matters concerning the administration of the
village and the services maintained and provided by the village.
      10.   Employee Classification And Pay Schedule: In coordination with the
department involved, recommend to the corporate authorities an employee
classification and pay schedule.
      11.   Health And Safety Measures: Recommend to the corporate authorities
the adoption of such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient for the
health, safety or welfare of the community, or for the improvement of the
services rendered by the village when such measures require action by the
corporate authorities.
      12.   Official Village Representative: Act as the official representative
of the village in appearing before other municipalities, governmental bodies,
districts, commissions and special associations.
      13.   Administrative Procedures: Develop and implement such procedures,
with the approval of the corporate authorities, as may be necessary to ensure
that the affairs of the village are handled on a professional and businesslike
basis.
      14.   Assist Corporate Authorities With Information: Furnish the
corporate authorities with any support information as may be requested on any
subject to enable them to make a decision.
      15.   Additional Duties: Perform such other duties as may be required by
the corporate authorities consistent with the laws and ordinances of the
village.
   C.   Matters Directed To Manager's Attention: All offices and departments
shall submit all matters requiring consideration or action by the corporate
authorities to the village manager, who shall submit them to the corporate
authorities with recommendations as may be deemed necessary. All department or
employee requests by the corporate authorities shall be submitted to the
village manager and shall receive instruction as to policy and departmental
operation from the manager.
   D.   Acting Village Manager: In the event the village manager is or will be
absent from the village or incapacitated from performing the duties of his
position, the corporate authorities may appoint an acting village manager to
serve during his absence or incapacity. (Ord. 93-6-1, 6-10-1993; amd. Ord.
2003-9-41, 9-4-2003; Ord. 2020-10-29, 10-15-2020)
1-6-5: VILLAGE COLLECTOR:
   A.   Appointment: A village collector may be appointed by the village
president with the advice and consent of the village board of trustees.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The village collector shall have all the powers and
perform all the duties prescribed by statute. (Ord. 2000-5-15, 5-18-2000)
1-6-6: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY:
   A.   For the purpose of this section, the term "minority" will refer to
American Indians, Asians, Blacks, or Hispanics, or to such protected classes as
youth, elderly, women, or persons with disabilities.
   B.   The village of Winfield hereby declares to uphold, defend, enforce, and
advocate for all laws related to equal employment opportunity including, but
not limited to, the following:
      1.   Title VI of the civil rights act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination in the participation in or benefits of programs or activities
receiving federal financial assistance on the basis of race, color, or national
origin.
      2.   Title VII of the civil rights act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in all
employment practices including hiring, firing, promotions, compensation, and
other terms, privileges and conditions of employment.
      3.   Title IX of the education amendments of 1972 which prohibits
discrimination in federally assisted education programs.
      4.   The equal pay act of 1963 which covers all employees who are covered
by the fair labor standards act. The act forbids pay differentials on the basis
of sex.
      5.   The age discrimination act of 1967 which prohibits discrimination
because of age against anyone between the ages of forty (40) and sixty five
(65).
      6.   Federal executive order 11246 which requires every contract with
federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
      7.   Section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 and DOL implementing
regulations at 29 CFR 32 which prohibits any discrimination based on
disability.
      8.   Section 188 of WIA and the U.S. DOL regulations at 29 CFR parts 31
and 32 which provide that no person in the United States shall be excluded from
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination on
the basis of race, color, or national origin, under any program or activity
receiving federal financial assistance from the department of labor.
      9.   Chapter 68, article I, section 17-19 of the Illinois constitution
which prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
disability, and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer.
      10.   The Americans with disabilities act of 1990 which prohibits any
discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of
their disability.
      11.   Illinois human rights act 1  which prohibits discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, order of
protection status, marital status, physical or mental disability, military
status, sexual orientation, or unfavorable discharge from military service in
connection with employment, real estate transactions, access to financial
credit, and the availability of public accommodations.
   C.   The village of Winfield will assure nondiscriminatory employment
practices in recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement,
layoff or termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other
forms of compensation and use of facilities.
   D.   The village of Winfield will not contract with other agencies, banks,
businesses, vendors, etc., who practice or establish a pattern of
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry,
age, order of protection status, marital status, physical or mental disability,
military status, sexual orientation, or unfavorable discharge from military.
   E.   The village of Winfield will incorporate into any contract for
construction work, or modification thereof, subject to the relevant rules,
regulations, and orders of the secretary of labor or of any prior authority
that remains in effect, which is paid in whole or in part with the aid of such
financial assistance, the following "equal opportunity clause":
In the event of the contractor's non-compliance with the provisions of this
Equal Employment Opportunity Clause, the Act or the Rules and Regulations of
the Department , the contractor may be declared ineligible for future contracts
or subcontracts with the State of Illinois or any of its political subdivisions
or municipal corporations, and the contract may be cancelled or voided in whole
or in part, and other sanctions or penalties may be imposed or remedies invoked
as provided by statute or regulation. During the performance of this contract,
the contractor agrees as follows:
a)   That he or she will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for
employment because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, marital
status, national origin or ancestry, citizenship status, age, physical or
mental disability unrelated to ability, sexual orientation, military status or
an unfavorable discharge from military service; and, further, that he or she
will examine all job classifications to determine if minority persons or women
are underutilized and will take appropriate affirmative action to rectify any
underutilization.
b)   That, if he or she hires additional employees in order to perform this
contract or any portion of this contract, he or she will determine the
availability (in accordance with the Department's Rules and Regulations) of
minorities and women in the areas from which he or she may reasonably recruit
and he or she will hire for each job classification for which employees are
hired in a way that minorities and women are not underutilized.
c)   That, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by him
or her or on his or her behalf, he or she will state that all applicants will
be afforded equal opportunity without discrimination because of race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin or ancestry,
citizenship status, age, physical or mental disability unrelated to ability,
sexual orientation, military status or an unfavorable discharge from military
service.
d)   That he or she will send to each labor organization or representative of
workers with which he or she has or is bound by a collective bargaining or
other agreement or understanding, a notice advising the labor organization or
representative of the contractor's obligations under the Act and the
Department's Rules and Regulations. If any labor organization or representative
fails or refuses to cooperate with the contractor in his or her efforts to
comply with the Act and Rules and Regulations, the contractor will promptly
notify the Department and the contracting agency and will recruit employees
from other sources when necessary to fulfill its obligations under the
contract.
e)   That he or she will submit reports as required by the Department's Rules
and Regulations, furnish all relevant information as may from time to time be
requested by the Department or the contracting agency, and in all respects
comply with the Act and the Department's Rules and Regulations.
f)   That he or she will permit access to all relevant books, records, accounts
and work sites by personnel of the contracting agency and the Department for
purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with the Act and the
Department's Rules and Regulations.
g)   That he or she will include verbatim or by reference the provisions of
this clause in every subcontract awarded under which any portion of the
contract obligations are undertaken or assumed, so that the provisions will be
binding upon the subcontractor. In the same manner as with other provisions of
this contract, the contractor will be liable for compliance with applicable
provisions of this clause by subcontractors; and further it will promptly
notify the contracting agency and the Department in the event any subcontractor
fails or refuses to comply with the provisions. In addition, the contractor
will not utilize any subcontractor declared by the Illinois Human Rights
Commission to be ineligible for contracts or subcontracts with the State of
Illinois or any of its political subdivisions or municipal corporations.
   F.   The Village of Winfield assures that it will actively provide
nondiscriminatory outreach, selection, and service to all individuals.
   G.   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the Village of
Winfield as well as surrounding areas.
   H.   The Village of Winfield will provide accommodations to the best of its
ability for employees with disabilities, contingent on budget and structural
limitations.
   I.   All Village of Winfield employees are expected to adhere to the above
policy and to work actively for its implementation both internally and in
carrying out Village program activities.
   J.   The Village of Winfield designates the Village President and Village
Board to carry out the EEO/AA plan. (Ord. 2013-01-04, 1-24-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 775 ILCS 5.
1-6-7: ASSESSING AND DETERMINING CLAIMS UNDER THE PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYEE
BENEFITS ACT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide a fair and efficient
method for determining the eligibility of a full-time employee for the benefits
enumerated under PSEBA through an administrative process, including if
necessary, an administrative hearing.
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms will
have the following meanings. These definitions are derived from the Federal
Public Health and Welfare Act, 42 USC section 3796b, which was enacted in 1944
and amended in 1984 to define, by inclusion or reference, the following terms:
    CATASTROPHIC INJURY: An injury, the direct and proximate consequences of
which permanently prevent an individual from performing any gainful work.
   GAINFUL WORK: Full- or part-time activity that actually is compensated or
commonly is compensated.
   INJURY: A traumatic physical wound (or a traumatized physical condition of
the body) directly and proximately caused by external force (such as bullets,
explosives, sharp instruments, blunt objects, or physical blows), chemicals,
electricity, climatic conditions, infectious disease, radiation, virii, or
bacteria, but does not include:
      1.   Any occupational disease; or
      2.   Any condition of the body caused or occasioned by stress or strain.
For use in this section, provisions containing the words "Mayor",
"Commissioner", "Alderman" or "Village Council" also apply to the President,
Trustee, Councilmember and Boards of Trustees so far as the provisions are
applicable to them.
   C.   Application Procedure:
      1.   As noted by the Court in Englum, "while the [Act] contained
substantive requirements for section 10 eligibility, the [Act] contained no
procedural requirements for determining whether a former employee met the
substantive criteria". ¶ 55. This section and the application procedure of this
section establishes guidance on the proper procedural requirements for public
safety officers seeking PSEBA benefits in the Village.
         a.   Public safety officers, or family member(s) of an injured or
deceased public safety officer, (applicant) must file a full and complete PSEBA
application in writing within thirty (30) days of filing a pension claim with
the Village or within thirty (30) days of the date of the adoption of this
section in the event that an applicant has filed for a pension or PSEBA claim
prior to the date of adoption of this section, whichever is later, if the
applicant is seeking an initial award of benefits under PSEBA. The Village
shall notify applicant if the PSEBA application is incomplete and applicant
shall have five (5) days to remedy their application. Failure to timely file
the full and complete application shall result in a forfeiture of the benefits
under PSEBA by failure to properly submit a complete application.
         b.   A complete PSEBA application includes the following:
            (1)   The name of the applicant, date of hire, detailed information
regarding the incident, including information relating to how the injury was
sustained in the line of duty (date, time, place, nature of injury and other
factual circumstances surrounding the incident giving rise to said claim);
            (2)   The applicant's firsthand knowledge explaining, to the
Village's satisfaction, how the injury/death directly resulted from:
               (A)   Response to fresh pursuit;
               (B)   Response to what is reasonably believed to be an
emergency;
               (C)   An unlawful act perpetrated by another; or
               (D)   Participation during the investigation of a criminal act;
            (3)   A signed PSEBA medical authorization release which authorizes
the collection of information related to the incident including, but not
limited to, disability pension proceedings, worker's compensation records, and
medical records and specifies the name and address for pertinent health care
provider(s);
            (4)   A signed PSEBA general information release specifying the
name and signature of the applicant or her/his authorized representative along
with legal proof of said representation and name and signature of witness
authorizing the collection of information pertinent to the incident review
process;
            (5)   The name(s) of witnesses to the incident;
            (6)   The name(s) of witnesses the applicant intends to call at the
PSEBA hearing;
            (7)   Information and supporting pension documentation filed with
the appropriate Pension Board;
            (8)   Information supporting the PSEBA eligibility requirements;
and
            (9)   Other sources of health insurance benefits currently enrolled
in or received by the applicant and/or family members if the applicant is
deceased.
         c.   The PSEBA application must be submitted to the Village Manager in
its entirety.
         d.   The PSEBA application must be sworn and notarized to certify the
truthfulness of the content of the information. A review of the application
shall not occur until the application is complete.
         e.   On the date that the PSEBA application is deemed complete by the
Village, the completed application shall then be submitted to the Village as
the preliminary record, and a copy of the same shall be date stamped and
provided to the applicant.
         f.   Upon receipt of a complete application for PSEBA benefits, the
Village shall set the matter for an administrative hearing before a Hearing
Officer to make a determination on whether to grant the applicant PSEBA
benefits based on the result of the administrative hearing.
         g.   The applicant will be given written notice of the date for the
scheduled administrative hearing to be served not less than ten (10) days prior
to the commencement of the hearing. If the applicant, upon receiving written
notice of the administrative hearing, cannot attend said date, the applicant
must contact the Hearing Officer in writing within seven (7) days after being
served. The Hearing Officer shall establish an alternative hearing date which
is within thirty (30) days of the original hearing date. Failure to appear at
the administrative hearing shall result in denial of PSEBA benefits.
   D.   Administrative Composition:
      1.   The administrative hearing shall be scheduled and conducted by a
Hearing Officer whose authority and limitations are as follows:
         a.   Authority Of The Hearing Officer: The Hearing Officer shall have
all of the authorities granted to her/him under common law relative to the
conduct of an administrative hearing, including the authority to:
            (1)   Preside over Village hearings involving PSEBA;
            (2)   Administer oaths;
            (3)   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
issue of eligibility under PSEBA;
            (4)   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses and the
production of relevant papers or documents upon the request of the parties or
their representatives;
            (5)   Rule upon objections in the admissibility of evidence;
            (6)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits in evidence introduced at the hearing; and
            (7)   Issue a determination based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, the determination of which shall be in writing and shall include a
written finding of fact, decision and order.
         b.   Hearing Officer: The Village President, with the advice and
consent of the Village Board, is hereby authorized to appoint a person to hold
the position of Hearing Officer for each hearing on PSEBA benefits that shall
come before this Village. In making said selection, the following information
should be considered, at a minimum:
            (1)   The individual's ability to comply with the job description
as set forth herein; and
            (2)   The individual must be an attorney licensed to practice law
in the State of Illinois and have knowledge of and experience in Employment and
Labor Law, general civil procedure, the Rules of Evidence and administrative
practice.
   E.   Administrative Hearing:
      1.   The system of administrative hearings for the determination of
eligibility for benefits under PSEBA shall be initiated either by the Village
or by the applicant after the submission of a full and complete PSEBA
application. An administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate and
determine whether the applicant is eligible for benefits under PSEBA. If the
applicant is found eligible, the benefits shall be consistent with the Act.
         a.   Record: The Village shall ensure that all hearings are attended
by a certified court reporter and a transcript of all proceedings shall be made
by said certified court reporter and a copy be provided to the applicant within
twenty eight (28) days of the date of the administrative hearing.
         b.   Procedures: The Village and the applicant shall be entitled to
representation by counsel at said administrative hearing and present witnesses,
testimony and documents, may cross- examine opposing witnesses, and may request
the issuance of subpoenas to compel the appearance of relevant witnesses or the
production of relevant documents.
         c.   Evidence: The Illinois Rules of Evidence shall apply to the
extent practicable unless, by such application, the Hearing Officer determines
that application of the rule would be an injustice or preclude the introduction
of evidence of the type commonly relied upon by a reasonably prudent person in
the conduct of her or his affairs. Such determination shall be in the sole
discretion of the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer must state on the record
her or his reason for that determination.
         d.   Final Determination: A written determination by the Hearing
Officer of whether the petitioning applicant is eligible for the benefits under
PSEBA shall constitute a final administrative determination for the purpose of
judicial review under the common law writ of certiorari.
         e.   Burden Of Proof: At any administrative hearing, the applicant
shall have the obligation and burden of proof to establish that the applicant
is eligible and qualified to receive PSEBA benefits. The standard of proof in
all hearings conducted under this section shall be by the preponderance of the
evidence.
         f.   Administrative Records: All records pertaining to the
administrative process shall be held in a separate file under the applicant's
name with the Village.
   F.   Health Insurance Benefits:
      1.   Upon qualification for PSEBA benefits, the applicant shall be
entitled to the Village's basic group health insurance plan. Basic group health
insurance plan shall mean the lowest- cost plan available to the Village. The
basic group health insurance plan may change from time to time. An applicant
may choose to enroll in any other health insurance plan offered by the Village
different from the basic group health insurance plan, but shall pay the
difference in insurance premium between the Village's basic plan and the other
plan. Failure of the PSEBA beneficiary to timely pay the premium's non-basic
level coverage shall result in coverage in the basic plan. PSEBA benefits do
not include benefits not provided under the Village's basic group health
insurance plan such as, but not limited to, disability benefits, life
insurance, dental or vision benefits, etc.
         a.   Open Enrollment: Individuals receiving benefits under PSEBA will
only be able to change from one plan to another during the Village's open
enrollment period.
         b.   Other Benefits: Health insurance benefits payable from any other
source will reduce the benefits payable from the Village. Each applicant shall
sign an affidavit attesting that the applicant is not eligible for insurance
benefits from any other source, unless there is another source. If there is
another source, the applicant shall notify the Village of that source no later
than five (5) business days from that source becoming available to the
applicant or the applicant's beneficiaries. The Village reserves the right on
an annual basis to have the benefit recipient provide another affidavit
affirming whether other health insurance is available or payable to the
applicant, his/her spouse and/or his/her qualifying dependent children. The
affidavit must be completed and returned to the Village within thirty (30)
calendar days of written notice from the Village. If the recipient does not
complete and return the affidavit within the time required, the Village shall
give the recipient an additional written notice providing an additional fifteen
(15) calendar days for the recipient to complete and return the affidavit.
Failure to return the affidavit within the time required shall result in the
recipient incurring responsibility for reimbursing the Village for premiums
paid during the period the affidavit is due and not filed.
         c.   Disclosure Of Health Insurance Coverage: The applicant has an
ongoing obligation and shall update health insurance coverage information
provided and failure to do so may result in the denial of benefits and/or
reimbursement to the Village for duplicate coverage. If duplicate coverage has
been received by a PSEBA beneficiary, further PSEBA benefits will be denied
until the Village has been fully reimbursed by the PSEBA beneficiary for what
it would have been credited if it had known about other coverage.
         d.   Reimbursement: Receipt of health insurance benefits from other
sources without notice to the Village shall require the applicant to reimburse
the Village for the value of those benefits.
         e.   Medicare Eligibility: The applicant shall notify the Village when
the applicant becomes Medicare eligible regardless of the status of the
enrollment period, so the Village may assist with the transition to Medicare
coverage and/or adjust health insurance benefits or PSEBA benefits accordingly.
   G.   Conflict Of Laws: Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of
this section are more restrictive than comparable provisions imposed elsewhere
in any other local law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation, the
regulations of this section will govern. (Ord. 2019-03-06, 3-21-2019)
1-6-8: VILLAGE PERSONNEL POLICY:
The Village of Winfield is a non-home rule unit of local government and has the
authority to adopt policies and regulations in order to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the Village and its residents and employees. It has
adopted a Personnel Manual which established certain benefits and privileges
for employees of the village that it believes to be in the best interest of its
residents. That Personnel Manual is herein adopted by reference as it may be
updated from time to time by policies, resolutions or ordinances of the
village. A copy may be found on file at the office of the Village Clerk. (Ord.
2024-03-04, 3-7-2024)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Tax Rate
1-7-2: Budget Officer And Budgetary Procedures
1-7-3: Purchasing Policy
1-7-4: Working Cash Fund
1-7-5: Zoning, Subdivision And Annexation Fees And Expenses
1-7-6: Fixed Asset Policy
1-7-1: TAX RATE:
The maximum tax rate for general corporate purposes for the municipality shall
be as ascertained and set by law 1 . (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-3-1.
1-7-2: BUDGET OFFICER AND BUDGETARY PROCEDURES:
   A.   Budget Officer:
      1.   Office Established; Appointment; Term: There is hereby established
the office of budget officer of the village who shall be appointed by the
village president with the approval of the corporate authorities. Said budget
officer shall serve at the pleasure of the village president.
      2.   Powers And Duties: The budget officer shall have the following
powers and duties:
         a.   Permit and encourage the use of efficient planning, budgeting,
auditing, reporting, accounting and other fiscal management procedures.
         b.   Compile an annual budget in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-2-9.3 and any amendments thereto.
         c.   Examine all books and records of all municipal departments,
commissions and boards which relate to monies received by the municipality,
municipal departments, commissions and boards and paid out by the municipality,
municipal departments, commissions and boards, debts and accounts receivable
and amounts owed by or to the municipality, municipal departments, commissions
and boards.
         d.   Obtain such additional information from the municipality,
municipal departments, commissions and boards as may be useful to the budget
officer for purposes of compiling a municipal budget, such information to be
furnished by the municipality, municipal departments, commissions and boards in
the form required by the budget officer. Any department, commission or board
which refuses to make such information as is requested of it available to the
budget officer shall not be permitted to make expenditures under any subsequent
budget for the municipality until such municipal department, commission or
board shall comply in full with the request of the budget officer.
         e.   Establish and maintain such procedures as shall ensure that no
expenditures are made by the municipality, municipal departments, commissions
or boards except as authorized by the budget.
   B.   State Budgetary Procedures Adopted: 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
2-9.1 and 5/8-2-9.2 through 5/8-2-9.10 are adopted as the budgetary procedure
for the village. (Ord. 653, 1-26-1984)
      1.   The village manager is authorized to delete, add to, change or
create subclasses within object classes budgeted previously to a village
department, provided that any such deletion, addition, change or created
subclass shall not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) 1 . (Ord. 2009-10-
32, 10-15-2009)
   C.   Annual Budget:
      1.   Preparation: The municipal budget officer shall compile a budget,
such budget to contain estimates of revenues available to the municipality for
the fiscal year for which the budget is drafted, together with recommended
expenditures for the municipality and all of the Municipality's departments,
commissions and boards. Revenue estimates and expenditure recommendations shall
be presented in a manner which is in conformity with good fiscal management
practices. The budget shall contain actual or estimated revenues and
expenditures for the two (2) years immediately preceding the fiscal year for
which the budget is prepared. Each budget shall show the specific fund from
which each anticipated expenditure shall be made.
      2.   Budget Enacted: During the last quarter of each fiscal year as
required by State Statute 2 , the President and Village Board shall enact a
budget in which shall be itemized all anticipated expenditures to be met during
the coming year other than those payable from bond issues and all anticipated
revenues to be received or accrued during the coming year. (Ord. 653, 1-26-
1984)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.6.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.4.
1-7-3: PURCHASING POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide Village of Winfield
personnel and elected officials with guidelines and directions for the
acquisition of goods and services. When used with good judgement and common
sense, the policies and procedures conveyed within will allow the Village to
obtain required supplies and services efficiently and economically, while
assuring adequate internal controls and purchasing authority.
Employees as well as non-employees who carry out the functions of the various
Village boards, committees, and commissions, are expected to read this section
and provide the Finance Department with feedback regarding the policies and
procedures contained within. This section is designed to be a fluid document
and will be modified from time to time to conform with changes in legislation,
technology, and actual practice.
The Village Manager, or his/her designee, shall be the final authority with
regards to enforcement of any of the provisions of this section. Failure to
follow the procedures outlined in this section may lead to disciplinary action
in accordance with the provisions of the Village of Winfield Personnel Manual.
   B.   Code Of Ethics: All Village personnel engaged in purchasing and related
activities shall conduct business dealings in a manner above reproach in every
respect. Transactions relating to expenditure of public funds require the
highest degree of public trust to protect the interest of the Village and the
residents of Winfield. Village representative, including elected officials,
appointed officials, and employees, shall strive to:
      1.   Ensure that public money is spent efficiently and effectively and in
accordance with statutes, regulations and Village policies.
      2.   Maintain confidentiality at all times.
      3.   Not accept gifts or favors from current or potential suppliers,
which might compromise the integrity of their purchasing function.
      4.   Specify generic descriptions of goods whenever possible in lieu of
brand names when compiling specifications.
      5.   Never allow purchase orders for identical goods or services to be
split or variations to Village Board approvals to be made in order to
circumvent established policy.
      6.   Purchase without favor or prejudice.
      7.   Ensure that all potential suppliers are provided with adequate and
identical information upon which to base their offer or quotation and that any
subsequent information is made available to all bidders.
      8.   Establish and maintain procedures to ensure that fair and equal
consideration is given to each offer or quotation received and selection is
based upon the lowest total cost compliant bid.
      9.   Offer a prompt and courteous response to all inquiries from
potential or existing suppliers.
It will be the responsibility of the Village Manager to determine if a
violation of this subsection B has occurred and if disciplinary action is
necessary.
   C.   Conflict Of Interest: Except as may be disclosed to and permitted by
the Village Board, it shall be a breach of ethical standards for any Village
representative, including elected officials, appointed officials, and
employees, to participate directly or indirectly in the purchasing process when
the Village representative knows that:
      1.   The Village representative, the Village representative's partner, or
any member of the Village representative's immediate family holds a position
with a bidder, offeror or contractor such as an officer, director, trustee,
partner or the like, or is employed in a capacity involving personal and
substantial participation in the procurement transaction, or owns or controls
an interest in the company, or
      2.   The Village representative, the Village representative's partner, or
any member of the Village representative's immediate family has a financial
interest arising from the procurement transaction; or
      3.   The Village representative, the Village representative's partner, or
any member of the Village representative's immediate family is negotiating, or
has an arrangement concerning, prospective employment with a bidder, vendor or
contractor.
The Village representative's immediate family shall be defined as a spouse,
children, partners, brothers and sisters and any other person living in the
same household as the Village representative.
It shall be the responsibility of the Village Manager to determine if a
violation of this subsection C has occurred and if disciplinary action is
necessary.
   D.   Gifts, Gratuities And Contributions: Village representatives, including
elected officials, appointed officials, and employees, should be aware that
offers of gratitude from vendors could be designed to compromise objective
judgement in product or service selection. Accordingly, it is the Village
policy to observe the highest standard of ethics and to shield the Village
representatives and the vendor from any suggestion or appearance of conflict of
interest.
No Village representative shall permit any influence by vendors, which could
conflict with the best interest of the Village, or prejudice the Village's
reputation. Expenditures of Village funds to vendors shall not by intention
personally benefit any Village representative. Village representatives shall
strive to adhere to the following guidelines:
      1.   Tangible gifts or gratuities shall not be accepted where their value
suggests something more than merely a social gesture. Such gifts should be
immediately returned to the Village Manager's Office for return with an
appropriate statement explaining Village policy. Promotional or advertising
items of nominal value such as key chains, pens, calendars, or holiday cookies
and candy are acceptable. Promotional gifts that are capable of being shared,
such as a box of cookies, shall be shared within the office or department where
the recipient works.
      2.   Association with vendor representatives at business meals or
business organization meetings is occasionally necessary and is neither
questionable nor unethical, provided the individual keeps himself/herself free
of obligation.
      3.   Personal loans of money or equipment are not to be accepted from a
vendor or an individual associated with a vendor doing business with the
Village.
      4.   Corporate discounts granted to Village officials or employees are
acceptable only if they are offered to all Village officials, employees and
other corporate clients of the vendor.
      5.   Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity, or any owner
thereof is prohibited from making donations or contributions that total two
hundred dollars ($200.00) or more to a Village representative, a Village
representative's political campaign, or officials of any organization
supporting said Village representative. Any person, firm, corporation or other
legal entity, or any owner thereof that has violated this provision shall be
prohibited from supplying or providing the Village, either directly or
indirectly, unless the provision of services was pursuant to the competitive
bidding process and the contributor was the lowest responsible bidder.
If any doubt about the propriety of accepting a gift or contribution, the
matter should be referred to the Village Manager.
   E.   Purchasing Authority: All purchases shall require approval from the
appropriate Supervisor, Department Head, Finance Director, Village Manager or
the Village Board in accordance with the following guidelines:
 
Dollar Limits          Required Approval
Under $1,000.00        Supervisor or Department Head
$1,000.00 - $4,999.00  Supervisor or Department Head, and then Finance Director
$5,000.00 - $19,999.00 Supervisor or Department Head, then Finance Director,
                       then Village Manager
$20,000.00 and above   Supervisor or Department Head, then Finance Director,
                       then Village Manager, then Board of Trustees
 
Any person responsible for approving purchases at any level may delegate their
approval authority to a designee in the event they are unavailable to approve
purchases.
   F.   Procurement Methods:
      1.   Invoice Approval: Small purchases of goods or services less than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) and certain required or routine
payments do not require a formal purchase order. Examples include utility
payments, payments in accordance with intergovernmental agreements, and
payments in accordance with approved Village contracts. The payment of the
invoice is subject to the purchasing authority approval outlined in this
section. Invoice approval is documented in the financial software system.
      2.   Purchase Order: With the exception of small purchases (under
$2,500.00), certain required or routine payments, and purchases processed with
a blanket purchase order, all other purchases shall require the issuance of a
regular purchase order to the vendor before an order for goods or services is
filled. Approval of the purchase order is subject to the purchasing authority
outlined in this section.
      3.   Blanket Purchase Order: Blanket purchase orders can be used when
there is a need to repetitively purchase items from a single vendor over the
course of the fiscal year. This simplifies paperwork in ordering, purchasing,
and invoicing, while allowing departments to efficiently purchase continually
needed items within a predetermined dollar limit. Blanket purchase orders are
approved for a specified dollar amount in which total purchases cannot exceed.
For a blanket purchase order to be initiated and approved, competitive prices
must first be obtained, the proper approvals be given, and a written purchase
order completed at the onset, as outlined in this section.
      4.   Manual Checks: Manual checks are checks that are issued between
normal accounts payable cycles when an emergency or other extenuating
circumstance makes it impractical or unreasonable to process the payment
following normal payment methods. The Village's policy is to keep requests for
manual checks at a minimum. The Village Manager may authorize a manual check,
which is subject to the approval guidelines in this section. Reporting to the
Village Board will take place at the next Board meeting following the issuance
of the manual check.
      5.   Purchasing Card: The Village Purchase Card Program is intended to
streamline and simplify purchasing and payment procedures by consolidating
supplier invoices and eliminating form processing. The Village purchase card is
administered under a separate Purchase Card Policy. See that policy for
applicable guidelines.
      6.   On-Line Purchasing: The internet may be utilized for on- line
purchasing as a tool for obtaining favorable pricing, preferred products/
services and securing expedited procurement.
On-line purchasing is subject to all requirements of this section and is not to
be used for means other than allowed by this section. On-line purchasing shall
be subject to the pricing authority requirements outlined in this section.
On-line purchases are to be made preferable utilizing a Village issued purchase
card which is subject to the procedures as discussed in the Village Purchase
Card Policy. Situations when an employee utilizes their own credit card to make
a purchase on behalf of the Village are subject to pre-approval of the
employee's department head. Such pre-approved purchases will be reimbursed
directly to the employee through the Village's regular bills list process. The
employee must obtain a receipt or other form of documentation substantiating
the on-line purchase. Should an employee make an on-line purchase without pre-
approval, reimbursement of that purchase can be denied by the Village.
      7.   Petty Cash: Petty cash is to be used to reimburse employees for
Village expenses which the employee incurs up front and for small purchases
which are handled most efficiently in this manner. The following restrictions
apply:
         a.   Individual petty cash purchases are limited to one hundred
dollars ($100.00). Purchases over this limit must be reimbursed through the
regular accounts payable process.
         b.   Employee must prepare a petty cash voucher which is approved by
the department head.
         c.   Receipts documenting the expense must be attached to the petty
cash voucher.
         d.   If an advance is given out of petty cash, a request form is
filled out noting the amount of the advance and must be signed by the employee
receiving the advance. The employee must bring back a receipt, along with any
remaining cash, no later than the next business day after the money is spent.
At that time, the form is updated to the actual amount spent and any unused
money is returned to petty cash.
   G.   Competitive Quotes And/Or Bids:
      1.   General Purchasing: It is the intent of this section to obtain the
most cost effective price available for purchases through competitive pricing.
Employees are responsible for obtaining quotes for purchases in the instances
outlined below:
 
Dollar Limits          Quote/Bid Requirement
                       1 verbal quote is sufficient. If the nature of the
                       purchase is repetitive (i.e., monthly), pricing does not
Up to $2,500.00        need to be obtained every time, but should be reviewed
                       annually. Employees are encouraged to seek additional
                       pricing when possible.
$2,500 - $4,999.00     3 verbal quotes required.
$5,000.00 - $19,999.00 3 written quotes required.
                       Must be competitively bid in accordance with State law
$20,000.00 and above   and Village ordinances. Formal bid or RFP process
                       required. Village Board approval is required.
 
The Village Manager has discretion to make budget adjustments for non-budgeted
items up to twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) as long as the item does not
increase the bottom line of the budget. Amendments over this amount, or which
will increase the total amount of the budget, must be brought before the
Village Board for approval. Documentation of any amendment of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) or more shall be communicated to the Village Board in
advance.
      2.   Joint Purchasing: Village representatives are encouraged to obtain
goods and services that have already been competitively bid through the State
of Illinois Joint Purchasing Program, Suburban Purchasing Cooperative, DuPage
Municipal Purchasing Initiative, or similar joint purchasing arrangements with
governmental units. Department heads should review the items available through
these programs when possible and ensure that the goods or services are of a
quality sufficient to meet the Village's needs and that pricing is competitive.
Items obtained through joint purchasing agreements are not subject to the
requirements for seeking competitive quotes or bids. However, prior to
initiating the transaction, employees shall seek the prior approval of the
Village Manager (or Village Board if $20,000.00 or greater).
      3.   Sole Source Purchases: Contracts for parts, supplies or equipment
that are available only from a single source are referred to as sole source
purchases. Sole source procurements may arise from the following circumstances:
         a.   Equipment for which there is no comparable competitive product or
is available only from one supplier.
         b.   Public utility services from natural or regulated monopolies.
         c.   A component or replacement part for which these is no
commercially available substitute, and which can be obtained only from the
manufacturer.
         d.   An item where compatibility is the overriding consideration, such
as computer software.
         e.   An item used, for example, a television transmitter tower, that
becomes immediately available and is subject to prior sale.
These items shall not be subject to requirements for seeking competitive quotes
or bids. The purchase requisition should include documentation of the reason
quotes were not obtained. Purchases are subject to purchasing approvals as
outlined in this section prior to acquisition. Purchases in excess of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) shall be presented to the Village Board prior to
acquisition with a request to waive bids in addition to approval of the
purchase order.
      4.   Professional Service Contracts: Professional service contracts are
contracts for services of individuals possessing a high degree of a specific
professional skill and, as such, are also not considered adaptable to
competitive bidding. Professional service contracts can be procured through the
Request for Proposal (RFP) process, Request for Qualifications (RFQ) process,
or through negotiation with a single source when only one known source can
perform the services required or when it is deemed to be in the best interest
of the Village based on previous service provided, experience with Village
equipment, or operations.
All professional service contracts, regardless of amount, are required to
include, at the time of request for proposal, a request for a certificate of
insurance evidencing professional liability (errors and omissions) insurance in
addition to normal insurance requirements. All professional service contracts
should be reviewed by the Village Attorney and are subject to the approval
requirements outlined in this section.
      5.   Emergency Purchases: Emergencies are defined as events that could
not have been foreseen where immediate action is necessary to safeguard the
public's health and safety. In the event of an emergency affecting the public
health and safety, the Village Manager or designated department head may
authorize a vendor to perform work necessary to resolve such emergency without
formal bid solicitation. Documentation of the emergency and the need for
immediate action shall be communicated to the Village Board in a reasonable
period of time following resolution of the crisis. Emergency purchases of
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or more will be presented retroactively to
the Village Board for approval.
      6.   Payroll: The Village President and Board of Trustees authorize the
Village Manager on a fiscal year basis to pay wages and salaries of Village
employees in accordance with the rates of compensation established by the Board
along with the payment of all payroll taxes, pension contributions, and such
other obligations according to Federal, State, local, or pension requirements.
      7.   Use Of Sales Tax Exemption: Village purchases are not subject to
Sales Tax and exemption forms may be obtained from the Finance Department.
Employees shall provide vendors a Sales Tax exemption form when required. Use
of the Village's Sales Tax exemption number is restricted to purchases made on
behalf of the Village.
   H.   Formal Bidding Process: All purchases of goods and services of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or more shall be subject to the competitive
bidding process and shall be let, by free and open competitive bidding after
advertisement, to the lowest responsible bidder or any other bidder whom the
Village Board deems to be in the interest of the Village. The requirement for
competitive sealed bids may be waived by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Village
Board.
      1.   Invitation To Bid: The Village initiates the formal bid process by
describing the project to be bid, cost estimates, amount budgeted and time
schedule for both the bidding and completion of the project. Detailed
specifications are prepared and, if required, a "Bid Notice" shall be published
in at least one newspaper a minimum of two (2) weeks prior to the time
designated for the opening of bids. An invitation to bid is mailed out to
qualified bidders with past experience working on Village projects. All
invitations to bid shall be reviewed by the Village Attorney prior to being
issued.
      2.   Bid Opening: Sealed bids shall be opened by the initiating
department on the date and time designated in the bid. Bids shall be read aloud
and recorded on a recap sheet which shall be made available to the public. Bids
received after the published date and time of day, unless extended through
written addendum, shall be rejected and returned unopened to the contractor
submitting the bid.
      3.   Bid Evaluation And Acceptance: Qualified bids shall be evaluated
based on the requirements described in the invitation to bid, which may include
criteria to determine acceptability such as inspection, testing, quality,
workmanship, delivery and suitability for a specified purpose. No criteria may
be used in bid evaluation that is not set out in the invitation to bid. At no
time should any information be made available to any prospective bidder which
is not available to all prospective bidders.
      4.   Bid Award: The recommendation for award shall be based on the lowest
responsible bidder, taking into consideration quality, performance, and the
time specified in the proposals for the performance of the contracts. If a
bidder is recommended who has not quoted the lowest price, the reasons for
selecting the bidder should be documented.
The bid recommendation shall be submitted to the Village Board for approval as
an agenda item at a regular meeting of the Village Board. After approval by the
Village Board, written notice will be given to the successful bidder.
      5.   Change Orders: The Village Manager is authorized to approve change
orders less than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) so long as it does not
exceed the previously authorized budgeted amount. Any change order that
increases a contract by more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) of the
total contract amount initially approved by the Village Board shall require
approval by the Village Board. (Ord. 2017-11-24, 11-16-2017)
1-7-4: WORKING CASH FUND:
   A.   Establishment: There is hereby created and established for the Village
a fund which shall be known and designated as a "Working Cash Fund".
   B.   Administration Of Fund: Such fund shall be administered in accordance
with the provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes 1 .
   C.   Funds Kept Separate: The funds received from the annual levy for such
purpose shall be kept separate and apart from all other village funds and shall
be accounted for separately from such other funds. (Ord. 342, 9-9-1966)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-7-1 et seq.
1-7-5: ZONING, SUBDIVISION AND ANNEXATION FEES AND EXPENSES:
   A.   Obligation Of Responsible Party:
      1.   The application for a project subject to this code shall identify
the party responsible (hereinafter referred to as the responsible party) for
the application and any financial obligations set forth by this section,
including the name, address, daytime telephone number; relationship to the
project; and consent of the owner (if different).
      2.   It is the obligation of the responsible party filing any application
as herein described to pay all administrative, professional consulting fees and
public hearing expenses, including court reporter fees, incurred by the village
in processing and acting upon such application.
      3.   The deposit for those fees and expenses as hereinafter set forth is
intended to ensure that adequate funds will be available to the village to pay
those fees and expenses and by making the deposit the applicant is not relieved
of the obligation to pay those fees in full if in fact those fees and expenses
exceed the deposit amount that may be with the village at any given time. The
village board shall establish the amount of the deposit to cover the above
noted costs by ordinance.
      4.   The village shall invoice the responsible party for any payment
obligation as set forth above and any deposit replenishment as may be required.
      5.   In the event that the responsible party fails to satisfy their
payment obligation and/or replenish their deposit balance within sixty (60)
days of receipt of an invoice from the village, a penalty in the amount of ten
percent (10%) of the original deposit requirement shall be added to the
outstanding obligation amount for each thirty (30) day period or portion
thereof that the responsible party's obligation remains delinquent. The village
shall retain the penalty payment amount. (Ord. 2007-2-8, 2-15-2007)
   B.   Deposit For Fees And Expenses:
      1.   Zoning Requests: At the time an application for a zoning change is
presented to the village and prior to any action thereon, a deposit fee shall
be paid to the village in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Requests for a variance to the zoning  $1,500.00 deposit plus a 10%
code                                   administrative fee for handling
                                       $1,000.00 deposit plus a 10%
Requests for an appeal of a decision   administrative fee for handling -
of the zoning administrator            deposit and fee shall be fully refunded
                                       if appeal is successful
Requests for a rezoning or zoning      $3,000.00 deposit plus a 10%
amendment                              administrative fee for handling
Requests for a special use permit      $3,000.00 deposit plus a 10%
                                       administrative fee for handling
                                       $3,000.00 deposit for preliminary plan
Requests for a special use/planned     approval and $3,000.00 for final plan
unit development permit                approval plus a 10% administrative fee
                                       for handling
 
   (Ord. 2014-10-33, 10-16-2014)
      2.   Subdivision Plats: At the time an application for subdivision review
requiring the village to utilize the services of a professional consultant is
presented to the village and prior to any action thereon, a deposit fee shall
be paid to the village in accordance with the following schedule relating to
the size of the proposed subdivision, separate fee deposits shall accompany the
preliminary and final plats for review and approval:
 
a. 1 acre or any fraction thereof       $3,000.00 deposit plus a 10%
                                        administrative fee for handling
                                        $3,000.00 deposit plus $600.00 for each
b. In excess of 1 acre but not over 10  acre plus a 10% administrative fee for
acres                                   handling for all acres (including the
                                        first acre) or fraction of an acre not
                                        exceeding 10 acres
                                        $7,000.00 deposit for the first 10
                                        acres plus $600.00 for each acre for
c. In excess of 10 acres, but not over  the next 15 acres or fraction of an
35 acres                                acre; plus $300.00 for the next 10
                                        acres or fraction of an acre plus a 10%
                                        administrative fee for handling
                                        $16,000.00 deposit plus $200.00 per
d. In excess of 35 acres                acre for each acre or fraction of an
                                        acre in excess of 35 acres plus a 10%
                                        administrative fee for handling
 
If a subdivision plat requires rezoning, zoning amendment, special use permit
or planned development zoning pursuant to the provisions of the Winfield zoning
ordinance, the deposit fee shall be in accordance with this subsection rather
than the provisions contained within subsection B1 of this section.
      3.   Annexation Plats: At the time an application for annexation is
presented to the village and prior to any action thereon, a deposit fee shall
be paid to the village in accordance with the following schedule relating to
the size of the proposed annexation:
 
a. 1 acre or any fraction thereof       $1,500.00 deposit plus and a 10%
                                        administrative fee for handling
                                        $1,500.00 deposit plus $400.00 for all
b. In excess of 1 acre but not over 10  acres (including the first acre) or
acres                                   fraction of an acre not exceeding 10
                                        acres and a 10% administrative fee for
                                        handling
                                        $5,000.00 deposit for the first 10
                                        acres plus $400.00 per acre for the
c. In excess of 10 acres but not over   next 15 acres or fraction of an acre;
35 acres                                plus $300.00 for the next 10 acres or
                                        fraction of an acre and a 10%
                                        administrative fee for handling
                                        $14,000.00 deposit for the first 35
                                        acres plus $200.00 per acre for each
d. In excess of 35 acres                acre or fraction of an acre in excess
                                        of 35 acres and a 10% administrative
                                        fee for handling
 
If an annexation plat requires a rezoning, zoning amendment, special use permit
or planned development zoning pursuant to the provisions of the Winfield zoning
ordinance, the deposit fee shall be in accordance with subsection B1 of this
section. The deposit fee provisions of this subsection shall only be applied to
an annexation plat which requires a rezoning, zoning amendment, special use
permit or planned development zoning when the deposit fee would exceed three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) pursuant to the deposit fee calculation in this
subsection.
      4.   Subdivision And Annexation: If an application is presented to the
village for both annexation and subdivision review, then in lieu of the fee
schedule in subsection B3 of this section, and at the time such application is
presented to the village and prior to any action thereon, a deposit fee shall
be paid to the village in accordance with the following schedule relating to
the size of the area to be both annexed and subdivided:
 
a. 1 acre or any fraction thereof       $4,000.00 deposit and a 10%
                                        administrative fee for handling
                                        $4,000.00 deposit plus $400.00 for all
b. In excess of 1 acre but not over 10  acres (including the first acre) or
acres                                   fraction of an acre not exceeding 10
                                        acres and a 10% administrative fee for
                                        handling
                                        $8,000.00 deposit for the first 10
c. In excess of 10 acres but not over   acres plus $400.00 per acre for the
35 acres                                next 15 acres or fraction of an acre
                                        and a 10% administrative fee for
                                        handling
                                        $17,000.00 deposit for the first 35
                                        acres plus $200.00 per acre for each
d. In excess of 35 acres                acre or fraction of an acre in excess
                                        of 35 acres and a 10% administrative
                                        fee for handling
 
If a subdivision and annexation plat requires rezoning, zoning amendment,
special use permit or planned development zoning pursuant to the provisions of
the Winfield zoning ordinance, the deposit fee shall be in accordance with this
subsection rather than the provisions contained within subsection B1 of this
section.
      5.   Definition Of An Acre: An "acre", for the purpose of this section,
shall be forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet.
      6.   Tree Preservation Plan: At the time an application for approval of a
development that is subject to regulation under section
10-2-15, "Tree Preservation", of this code, the applicant shall provide the
following deposit based on the acreage of the development:
 
a. 1 acre or any fraction thereof       $800.00 deposit and a 10%
                                        administrative fee for handling
b. In excess of 1 acre but not over 10  $1,600.00 deposit plus $400.00 for all
acres                                   acres or fraction of an acre and a 10%
                                        administrative fee for handling
                                        $3,200.00 deposit for the first 10
c. In excess of 10 acres                acres plus $400.00 for all acres or
                                        fraction of an acre and a 10%
                                        administrative fee for handling
 
(Ord. 2006-9-41, 9-7-2006)
   C.   Agreement To Pay Village Fees In Full: Before any application for which
a deposit fee is required by this section is accepted by the village or acted
upon, the responsible party will be required to acknowledge in writing the
responsible party's obligation to pay all fees pursuant to the provisions
contained within this section. Said form of acknowledgment shall be prescribed
by the village attorney and kept on file in the office of the village clerk.
   D.   Refunds And Additional Payments: The foregoing fee schedule is based
upon an estimate of the costs and fees that will be incurred by the village in
reviewing and acting upon the applications described. Accordingly, at the time
of final action by the corporate authorities or the written request by the
applicant that further action on the application terminate, an itemization of
costs for consultants and an administrative fee in the amount of ten percent
(10%) of the consultant's fee shall be sent to the petitioner either indicating
payment in full, providing a refund to the applicant or billing the applicant
an additional amount to be paid to the village by the applicant before final
action on the application is taken. The payment for zoning, subdivision or
annexation review under this section shall only include those services
necessary for the final action on request by the corporate authorities. All
inspection, review and other fees indicated by other ordinances shall remain
applicable.
   E.   Additional Deposit Required: If, during the course of the review of an
application, the fees on deposit with the village reach a level of less than
fifty percent (50%) of the value of the initial deposit, the responsible party
shall pay to the village an amount that brings the deposit balance back to one
hundred percent (100%) of the initial deposit, and if the village provides the
applicant with an estimate in writing of the additional consultant fees that
will be incurred by the village, based upon estimates from the consultants
themselves, which shall be made available to the applicant, it is the
obligation of the applicant to pay to the village an additional deposit to
cover the cost of those additional anticipated fees plus an additional
administrative fee in the amount of ten percent (10%) of those anticipated
additional consultant fees. The village reserves the right to delay any further
action on the application until this additional deposit is paid. This
additional deposit is based upon an estimate of what those additional fees may
be and by making the additional deposit, the applicant is not relieved of his
obligation to pay those fees in full if in fact they exceed that estimate and
additional administrative fee. The provisions of subsection D of this section
with respect to a refund of any excess deposit shall then apply at the time of
final action or withdrawal as described in subsection D of this section. If the
additional payment is also exhausted prior to final action or withdrawal, then
an additional deposit shall again be required in accordance with the provisions
of this subsection. (Ord. 2007-2-8, 2-15-2007, amd. Ord. 2020-08-21, 8-20-2020)
1-7-6: FIXED ASSET POLICY:
   A.   Statement Of Policy: The purpose of the fixed asset policy is to
provide guidelines for the capitalization of assets. Maintaining a complete and
accurate accounting for capital assets is essential for effective property
management and control, and is of the utmost importance to sound financial
administration.
   B.   Approval/Review Of Policy; Copy On File: The fixed asset policy shall
be approved by the village board of trustees and shall remain on file with the
village clerk. The village board shall regularly review and update the fixed
asset policy, with such reviews to be conducted at least biannually. (Ord.
2014-11-35, 11-20-2014)
ARTICLE A. INDUSTRIAL REVENUE BONDS
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Policy Of The Village; Guidelines
1-7A-2: Required Information
1-7A-1: POLICY OF THE VILLAGE; GUIDELINES:
The village, as a general policy, will favorably consider issuing industrial
revenue bonds to qualified industries upon the assurance that the taxpayers are
fully protected and that the industry or commercial development will benefit
the village. To ensure the implementation of these general policies, the
following guidelines and criteria are hereby established:
   A.   Application For Industrial Revenue Bonds; Initial Fee: Applications for
industrial revenue bonds shall be made to the village manager. The application
shall be accompanied with an initial fee of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
and such supporting financial documents and information as are necessary to
make a complete and thorough analysis of the applicant. The fee will be applied
to the cost of all legal, engineering, planning, financial and other consultant
fees incurred at the request of the village, and all administrative costs for
village employees and any amount received in excess of those fees and costs
incurred prior to the receipt by the village of written notice that the plans
for the development have been terminated shall be refunded to the applicant.
Information requested shall include:
      1.   The amount of the proposed bond issue.
      2.   Name of the intended purchaser (if available).
      3.   The most recent SEC 10-K report of the applicant corporation if it
is required to file such a report and any subsequent 8-K or 10-Q report.
      4.   The last five (5) annual reports of the applicant corporation, duly
certified.
      5.   The latest preliminary financial status report of the applicant for
the current fiscal year, if available.
      6.   A detailed description of the project.
      7.   A feasibility study.
      8.   The village manager or any financial, legal or other consultants of
the village may require additional information from the applicant, which
applicant shall supply.
   B.   Fees Incurred: All fees, including printing, legal, fiscal, review and
cost of preparation of all ordinances, resolutions, agreements and other legal
and financial documents that are necessary to authorize and deliver the
industrial revenue bonds, shall be at the expense of the applicant, but may be
financed as part of the bond project.
   C.   Contract For Sale Of Bonds: Applicant shall contract for the sale of
the bonds at terms agreeable to the applicant and his bank or investment
banker. (Ord. 621, 7-8-1982)
   D.   Final Fee: The final fee to the village for authorizing the issuance of
industrial revenue bonds shall be one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the total
amount of the issue. (Ord. 621, 7-8-1982; amd. 1994 Code)
   E.   Statements Required: Before the village issues industrial revenue
bonds, the following statements must be supplied:
      1.   A statement from the village attorney that he has reviewed all
documents pertinent to the application and bond issue.
      2.   A statement from the village's financial consultant that, based on
the consultant's study of the information supplied and from other available
sources, that nothing has come to his attention to indicate that: a) the
applicant is not in a position to undertake its commitments, or b) it is
inadvisable for the village to lend its name to the proposed project even
though it is not undertaking any financial obligations. The village's financial
consultant shall also state the amount of any fee he will charge for his
services payable by the applicant and to be included as a part of the estimate
of the cost of the bond issue.
      3.   A statement from the engineer for the village or other designated
person that the proposed project will not have an adverse impact upon traffic
in the village, or sewer or water facilities.
      4.   A statement from a planning and/or zoning consultant or official
designated by the village that the applicant is in compliance with the
village's comprehensive plan 1  and that the industry would be an asset to the
village.
      5.   A statement from the village manager that suitable arrangements have
been made for the payment of all fees.
   F.   Explanation Of Redevelopment: The village reserves the right to have
the applicant appear before it to explain the proposed redevelopment and to
answer any questions.
   G.   Consideration Of Bond Issue Approval: Upon completion of all steps, the
village shall consider approval of the industrial revenue bond issue. (Ord.
621, 7-8-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-2-6 of this code.
1-7A-2: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
The following information shall be supplied as part of an industrial evaluation
checklist:
   A.   Economic information:
      1.   Financial stability.
Prospectus.
Reports to stockholders.
Accounting audit of the applicant's most recent five (5) fiscal years prepared
and reported on by an independent certified public accountant.
Financial statements and records.
Evidence of valid contractual arrangements with other established businesses
which might ensure the financial success of the tenant.
      2.   Type of product.
      3.   Number of employees at the new facility.
Men
Women
Part time
Seasonal
      4.   Number of employees expected to reside in the village.
      5.   Number of new jobs created.
      6.   Number of management level employees.
      7.   Type of skills required by the plant's employees.
      8.   Yearly payroll/average employee salary.
      9.   Projected appraised/assessed value of the facility's real and
personal property in the village.
      10.   The number of plant relocations since 1950.
   B.   Environmental information:
      1.   Size of the facility (square feet).
      2.   Amount of land required by the facility (acres).
      3.   Proximity of the facility's location to area zoned residential and
school and park sites.
      4.   Pollution information:
Water/type of effluent
Air/toxic substances
Odor
Noise
      5.   Use of pollution control devices by the facility.
      6.   Physical appearance of the plant and landscaping plan.
      7.   Projected number of vehicles entering the plant area per day.
Cars
Trucks
      8.   Drainage/storm sewer requirements.
      9.   Floodplain/floodway considerations.
   C.   Community services information:
      1.   Ability of the streets to carry additional traffic load.
Access to the plant
Safety
      2.   Utility requirements.
Gallons of water used per day.
Water and line requirements needed for fire protection.
Sewerage requirements:
Amount
Type/BOD level
Projected electrical and gas usage.
Need for water main and sewerage line extensions.
      3.   Ability of the schools to accommodate possible enrollment increases.
(Ord. 621, 7-8-1982)
CHAPTER 8
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Elections
1-8-2: Real Estate Interest Disclosure
1-8-3: Corporate Seal
1-8-4: Returned Checks
1-8-5: Collection Fees
1-8-1: ELECTIONS:
Elections for municipal offices shall be held as provided by statute and at the
time prescribed by statute 1 . (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.; 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5.
1-8-2: REAL ESTATE INTEREST DISCLOSURE:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them herein:
AGENT: A person authorized to act for another person or corporation.
APPLICANT: One who applies for any benefits on behalf of himself or some other
entity.
BENEFICIAL INTEREST: Any interest in a land trust.
BENEFICIARY: Any person, corporation or other entity having a beneficial
interest in a land trust.
CORPORATION: A body of persons authorized by law to act together as a single
person and, for the purpose of this section, includes any association, joint
stock company, syndicate or partnership.
LAND TRUST: An express agreement whereby the legal and equitable title to real
estate is held by a trustee for the benefit of beneficiaries who have the
exclusive right to manage and control said real estate.
LESSEE: One who has an interest in real estate by virtue of a lease.
NOMINEE: One designated to act for another, with limited authority.
OPTION HOLDER: One having the right to purchase real estate upon compliance
with conditions named in a contract.
STOCKHOLDER: One owning certificates of stock in a corporation or membership in
an association, joint stock company, syndicate or partnership.
   B.   Applications:
      1.   Signature Of Applicant: Any application to the village board of
trustees or village boards and commissions for authorization, benefit, license,
permit, variation, zoning amendment or planned unit development relating to
real estate shall be signed by the owner, lessee, option holder, agent or
nominee of either.
      2.   Required Information:
         a.   If the application is made by a person other than the fee owner,
it shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the owner that the person signing
the application has authority to make the application, and the application
shall disclose the full names, addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant
and owner.
         b.   If the applicant or the owner is a corporation, the application
shall disclose the names and addresses of the officers, directors, registered
agent and those shareholders or members owning in excess of five percent (5%)
of the outstanding stock or interest in the corporation.
         c.   If the applicant is a trustee, the full name, address, telephone
number and the extent of the interest of each beneficiary must be disclosed.
         d.   If the applicant is a beneficiary, nominee or option holder, the
application must disclose the names, addresses and telephone numbers of those
persons or entities for whom he is acting, and if it is a corporation, the
provisions of subsection B2b of this section shall be complied with. (Ord. 449,
5-9-1974)
   C.   False Statements: After a statement is determined to be falsified,
missing or incorrect, a written notice of the omission or falsification shall
be sent to the applicant; each day that elapses until the date the required
information is furnished or corrected shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 449, 5-9-1974; amd. 1994 Code)
1-8-3: CORPORATE SEAL:
The corporate seal of the village shall be in such form as prescribed by the
village president and board of trustees. (1994 Code)
1-8-4: RETURNED CHECKS:
Any person who pays any bill, fine, charge or fee to the village with any check
or draft that is subsequently returned unpaid to the village because of
insufficient funds or because of a stop order on such check or draft shall be
liable to the village for the greater of the bank charge incurred by the
village, plus the administrative costs of collecting the money, or thirty
dollars ($30.00) for each and every check so returned. Such service charges
shall be paid within seven (7) days of notification, in cash or by money order
or certified check before the bill, fine, charge or fee for which such check
was tendered shall be considered paid. Should two (2) such checks or drafts be
returned within a one year period, no further payments shall be accepted from
such person except in the form of cash, certified check, cashier's check or
money order for a period of six (6) months from the date of the return of the
second check or draft. (Ord. 2004-12-51, 12-2-2004)
1-8-5: COLLECTION FEES:
Any person who is indebted to the village of Winfield for any amount past due
and whose account has been transferred to any agency for the purpose of
recuperating the full amount of the debt, shall be responsible to pay the fees,
costs, fines and/or penalties associated with the debt collection agency and
process in addition to the debt amount due to the village of Winfield. (Ord.
2015-05-15, 5-7-2015)
CHAPTER 9
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Application
1-9-2: Conflict Of Interest
1-9-3: Confidentiality
1-9-4: Use Of Government Resources
1-9-5: Scope Of Office
1-9-6: Authority
1-9-7: Open Government
1-9-8: Village Board Interactions With Developers
1-9-1: APPLICATION:
This code of ethics shall apply to all elected officials of the village and to
all persons appointed by the board of trustees or by the president to any
position, board or commission ("village officials"). The ethical standards,
considerations, and rules of conduct shall apply and be observed during the
term of office or service of the village official with the village. (Ord. 97-6-
28, 6-17-1997)
1-9-2: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
   A.   Definition: Except as otherwise provided by 50 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 105/1 et seq., as now existing or hereafter amended, the term
"conflict of interest" shall mean:
      1.   Engaging in any business or transaction or having a financial or
personal interest that is incompatible with the proper discharge of official
duties in the public interest; or
      2.   Engaging in or accepting private employment or rendering service for
private interest when such employment or service is incompatible with proper
discharge of official duties or would tend to impair independence of judgment;
or
      3.   Soliciting or accepting any valuable gift, favor or service or
benefit as inducement for or compensation for official act or action; or
      4.   Granting, performing or making available any special favor,
advantage, consideration or treatment to any person beyond that which is
available to all residents of the village.
   B.   Prohibited: No village official shall knowingly engage in any activity
that would be deemed a conflict of interest hereunder during the village
official's term of office or service.
   C.   Disclosures: In addition to the statement of economic interest filed by
the village official, every village official shall disclose any personal
business interest related to proposed village legislation or action, and the
village official shall disclose the nature and extent of such interest prior to
discussion, expressing an opinion, making a recommendation or taking action.
(Ord. 97-6-28, 6-17-1997)
1-9-3: CONFIDENTIALITY:
   A.   No village official shall disclose information which:
      1.   Is or may be the subject of an official act or action of the village
without proper authorization.
      2.   Can be kept confidential under the terms of the Illinois freedom of
information act 1 .
      3.   Is confidential under the personnel record review act 2  which
provides that an employer or former employer shall not divulge a disciplinary
report, letter of reprimand, or other disciplinary action to a third party, to
a party who is not a part of the employer's organization, or to a party who is
not a part of a labor organization representing the employee, without written
notice as provided in the law.
      4.   Release of minutes of executive sessions prior to approval of
minutes for public release. (Ord. 2006-8-35, 8-17-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq., as now existing or hereafter amended.
2 2. 820 ILCS 40/7 et seq., as now existing or hereafter amended.
1-9-4: USE OF GOVERNMENT RESOURCES:
No village official shall use or allow the use of government service, property
or funds for private purposes or for purposes other than those authorized or
permitted except as otherwise generally available to the public. (Ord. 97-6-28,
6-17-1997)
1-9-5: SCOPE OF OFFICE:
Every village official shall refrain from making any private promise, the
performance of which would require acting beyond the proper scope of said
village official's duties, and shall refrain from acting in a manner which
would compromise the integrity of public office. (Ord. 97-6-28, 6-17-1997)
1-9-6: AUTHORITY:
No village official shall knowingly or negligently mislead or allow others to
mislead the public or other government officials. No village official shall
intentionally act outside the scope of authority in representing the village
official's office or allow a perception that the village official is acting on
behalf of the village when in fact he/she is not. (Ord. 97-6-28, 6-17-1997)
1-9-7: OPEN GOVERNMENT:
Village officials shall act in accordance with the spirit and intent of the
open meetings act 1 , and deliberations of the village board and its related
boards, committees, commissions or advisory bodies shall be conducted openly
except where public interest or personal rights may be adversely affected.
(Ord. 97-6-28, 6-17-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq., as now existing or hereafter amended.
1-9-8: VILLAGE BOARD INTERACTIONS WITH DEVELOPERS:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, the term "developer" shall be defined
as someone who makes a business out of turning vacant, or underused, or
existing developed parcels of land into new or rehabilitated residential,
business, commercial or industrial projects that is acting in their own behalf
or as an agent for any landowner or equitable owner, for whom subdivision or
land development plans are being or have been made. This definition shall not
include an owner wishing to develop or redevelop a home on a single site.
   B.   These guidelines shall be followed by members of the village board,
excepting the village president, when any such person is directly contacted in
his/her capacity as an officer of the village, and not in the conduct of his/
her private business capacity, by a developer or their agent who is proposing a
development or redevelopment within the village of Winfield:
      1.   If the formal petition or application review process has not yet
been initiated:
         a.   The contacted village board member should refer the developer to
the appropriate village staff member who handles proposals in regard to
development or redevelopment in the community. In this manner the developer
will be provided the most accurate information and the entire governing body
can be kept apprised of developer interactions.
         b.   The contacted village board member shall advise the developer of
the village's ethics ordinance concerning interactions with developers and
encourage the developer to directly contact village community development staff
for professional assistance.
         c.   In the event that a meeting has been arranged to facilitate the
contact with the developer, an appropriate member of the village staff shall be
present at said meeting.
      2.   Once the formal petition or application review process has begun:
         a.   The contacted village board member shall inform the developer
that as the formal petition or application review process has begun, all
contacts with the developer and the contacted individual will be limited to
contacts at meetings and review sessions, which are a part of the formal
petition or application review process provided for in the village ordinances.
         b.   Community development staff will assist the developer with
questions and preparation for a concept presentation to the village board,
while respecting the developer's need for discretion.
      3.   In no instance before or after the review process has begun shall a
trustee without authorization of the village board make representations on
behalf of the village, attempt to explain village code development
requirements, attempt to negotiate terms of any development agreement, nor
accept or provide any development related documents. Each of these activities
identifies a situation in which village staff should be involved with the
knowledge of the full board.
      4.   It is further recognized that board members should not attempt to
assert undue influence on the development process, which impacts the village as
a whole, and that developments are best treated as Winfield projects, not
individual board member projects. (Ord. 2013-07-22, 7-18-2013)
CHAPTER 10
STATE ETHICS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Definitions
1-10-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-10-3: Gift Ban
1-10-4: Ethics Advisor
1-10-5: Ethics Commission
1-10-6: Complaints/Hearings
1-10-7: Conflicts
1-10-8: Penalties
1-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them herein:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Winfield, whether on a full time
or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of Winfield.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit toward pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 2004-5-
15, 5-6-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-10-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 2004-5-15, 5-6-
2004)
1-10-3: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Gifts Prohibited: Except as permitted by this chapter, no officer or
employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer
or employee (collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as
defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this
section.
   B.   Exceptions: Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the
following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this chapter, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 2004-5-15, 5-6-2004)
1-10-4: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   The village president, with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees, shall designate an ethics advisor for the village. The duties of the
ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the village unless
the position has been created as an office by the village.
   B.   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees
of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the board of trustees. (Ord.
2004-5-15, 5-6-2004)
1-10-5: ETHICS COMMISSION:
   A.   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the ethics
commission of the village of Winfield. The commission shall be comprised of the
village president, the village clerk and the most senior trustee. In the event
of a conflict of interest, the remaining trustees, in order of seniority, shall
serve as alternate commissioners.
   B.   The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      2.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with section
1-10-6 of this chapter and refer violations of section
1-10-2 or
1-10-3 of this chapter to the village prosecutor for prosecution. The
commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter and not upon its own prerogative.
      3.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the village to cooperate with the commission during
the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with requests
by the commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or discharge.
      5.   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-5-15, 5-6-2004)
1-10-6: COMPLAINTS/HEARINGS:
   A.   Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with the
ethics commission.
   B.   Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time,
and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
   C.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act. The commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days after receiving the complaint.
   D.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-10-3 of this chapter and there is a determination of probable cause, then the
commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four (4) weeks after the receipt of the complaint. Alternatively, the
commission may elect to notify in writing the village prosecutor and request
that the complaint be adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not
sufficient to allege a violation or if there is no determination of probable
cause, then the commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a notice to the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint,
and that notice shall be made public.
   E.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-10-2 of this chapter, then the commission shall notify in writing the village
prosecutor and shall transmit to the attorney the complaint and all additional
documents in the custody of the commission concerning the alleged violation.
   F.   On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48) hours' public
notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on the complaint
and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence.
The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the open meetings
act.
   G.   Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the commission shall either: 1) dismiss the complaint or
2) issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the
officer having authority to discipline the officer or employee, or impose a
fine upon the violator, or both. The particular findings in the case, any
recommendation for discipline, and any fine imposed shall be a matter of public
information.
   H.   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand,
the commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least
forty eight (48) hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the
opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days
thereafter, the commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the
alleged violator and to the officer having authority to discipline the officer
or employee or impose a fine upon the violator, or both.
   I.   If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the date
of any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission shall
render its decision as required under subsection G of this section within seven
(7) days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven (7) days preceding
that election, the commission shall render such decision before the date of
that election, if possible.
   J.   The commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-10-3 of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one dollars
($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The commission
may fine any person who knowingly files a frivolous complaint alleging a
violation of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one
dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The
commission may recommend any appropriate discipline up to and including
discharge.
   K.   A complaint alleging the violation of this chapter must be filed within
one year after the alleged violation. (Ord. 2004-5-15, 5-6-2004)
1-10-7: CONFLICTS:
Notwithstanding any policy, resolution, ordinance or portion of this Code to
the contrary, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. (Ord. 2004-5-15, 5-
6-2004)
1-10-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of this chapter may
be fined as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code.
   B.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-10-2 or
1-10-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 2019-02-01,
2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 11
POLICY ON USE OF VILLAGE LOGO
SECTION:
1-11-1: Logo Established
1-11-2: Use Regulations
1-11-3: Penalty
1-11-1: LOGO ESTABLISHED:
The official Village of Winfield logo is identified below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2352.png]
 
(Ord. 2006-6-27, 6-15-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-06-11, 6-11-2023)
1-11-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   The official Village logo or part thereof may be reproduced only from
the approved reproduction proofs which may be obtained from the Village Hall.
   B.   The official Village logo or part thereof must be reproduced
photographically, except for some possible uses such as the flag, shoulder
patches, etc. for all printed materials; no handdrawn reproductions may be
used. If not reproduced photographically, the use must be approved by the
Village President and Board of Trustees.
   C.   The official Village logo or part thereof is copyrighted and registered
as a trademark. As such, it may be used only with the consent of the Village
President and Board of Trustees of Winfield, Illinois. Whenever the official
Village logo is reproduced in printed form, it must be accompanied by the
trademark symbol.
   D.   The official Village logo or part thereof may not be superimposed upon
or be tangent to any other symbol, nor may any other symbol be superimposed
upon or be tangent to the official Village logo.
   E.   Variations of the provisions of this policy or use of the Village logo
in any manner not covered in this policy or variations in form, color or
presentation of the Village logo not provided for in this policy must be
approved by the Village President and Board of Trustees. Applications for use
of the Village symbol whether in its official form or any other form should be
directed to the Village Manager. (Ord. 2006-6-27, 6-15-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-06-
11, 6-11-2023)
1-11-3: PENALTY:
Any person or organization convicted of violating this chapter shall be
punished as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 12
ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Rules Statement
1-12-2: Participation
1-12-3: Voting Procedures
1-12-4: Adequate Equipment Required
1-12-5: Minutes
1-12-6: Rights Of Remote Member
1-12-1: RULES STATEMENT:
It is the decision of the village of Winfield that any member of the village
board, committees, boards and commissions established by authority of the
village of Winfield may attend any open or closed meeting of the village board,
committees, boards and commissions via electronic means (such as by telephone,
video or internet connection) provided that such attendance is in compliance
with these rules and any applicable laws. (Ord. 2009-07-21, 7-2-2009)
1-12-2: PARTICIPATION:
A member of the village board and committees, boards and commissions
established by authority of the village of Winfield may attend a meeting
electronically if the member meets the following conditions: A quorum is
physically present throughout the meeting; and a majority of the members of the
village board or committee, board and commission votes to approve the
electronic attendance at the meeting.
   A.   The member should notify the village clerk or board, commission or
committee secretary at least four (4) hours before the meeting, unless
impractical, so that necessary communications equipment can be arranged.
Inability to make the necessary technical arrangements will result in denial of
a request for electronic attendance.
   B.   The member must assert one of the following three (3) reasons why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
      1.   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or disability;
or
      2.   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes; or
      3.   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
   C.   The village clerk or secretary, after receiving the electronic
attendance request, shall inform the village board or members of the other
boards, commissions or committees of the request for electronic attendance.
   D.   The member seeking participation shall be available on the telephone or
other communication device not less than five (5) minutes prior to the meeting.
   E.   Any costs associated with the member's participation shall be borne
solely by the member and not the village. (Ord. 2009-07-21, 7-2-2009)
1-12-3: VOTING PROCEDURES:
After a roll call establishing that a quorum is physically present, the village
president or chairperson shall call for a motion that a member may be permitted
to attend the meeting electronically after specifying the reason entitling the
absent member to attend electronically. The motion must be approved by a vote
of a majority of the members present of the applicable village board, committee
or commission. (Ord. 2009-07-21, 7-2-2009)
1-12-4: ADEQUATE EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
The member participating electronically and other members of the board,
committee or commission must be able to communicate effectively, and members of
the audience must be able to hear all communications at the meeting site.
Before allowing electronic attendance at any meeting, the village of Winfield
shall provide equipment adequate to accomplish this objective at the meeting
site. (Ord. 2009-07-21, 7-2-2009)
1-12-5: MINUTES:
Any member attending electronically shall be considered an off site attendee
and counted as present electronically for that meeting. The meeting minutes
shall also reflect and state specifically whether each member is physically
present or present by electronic means. (Ord. 2009-07-21, 7-2-2009)
1-12-6: RIGHTS OF REMOTE MEMBER:
A member permitted to attend electronically will be able to express his or her
comments during the meeting and participate in the same capacity as those
members physically present, subject to all general meeting guidelines and
procedures previously adopted and adhered to. The member attending
electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as to any vote taken.
Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically shall be called
during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded by the village
clerk or secretary and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A
member attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case
of any member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce his
or her leaving and returning. (Ord. 2009-07-21, 7-2-2009)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Established; Members
2-1-2: Powers And Duties
2-1-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS:
There is hereby established the board of local improvements for the village,
which shall consist of the village president and all of the members of the
board of trustees. (Ord. 340, 6-10-1966)
2-1-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of local improvements shall have the powers and perform the duties
assigned to it by statute or ordinance. (Ord. 340, 6-10-1966)
CHAPTER 2
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Creation Of Plan Commission
2-2-2: Appointment; Membership; Compensation
2-2-3: Terms Of Office; Vacancies; Removals
2-2-4: Rules Of Procedure
2-2-5: Powers
2-2-6: Official Comprehensive Plan
2-2-7: Public Art Mural Program
2-2-7-1: Establishment
2-2-7-2: Purpose
2-2-7-3: Definitions
2-2-7-4: Program Administration
2-2-7-5: Eligibility
2-2-7-6: Application Requirements
2-2-7-7: Standards For Approval
2-2-7-8: Installation Provisions
2-2-1: CREATION OF PLAN COMMISSION:
In order to achieve the purposes of this chapter, a plan commission consisting
of seven (7) qualified persons appointed in such manner and for such terms as
hereinafter prescribed in sections
2-2-2 and
2-2-3 of this chapter is hereby created under the authority of chapter 65,
article 11, division 12 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes. All commission
members shall be residents of the village of Winfield, except that one member
may be a resident in unincorporated territory contained within the village's
comprehensive planning area. (Ord. 2014-01-02, 1-16-2014)
2-2-2: APPOINTMENT; MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION:
The president shall appoint seven (7) persons to serve on the plan commission
subject to confirmation by the corporate authorities. All members of the
commission shall serve as such without compensation. (Ord. 2009-05-12, 5-7-
2009)
2-2-3: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES; REMOVALS:
One person shall be appointed chairman by the village president for a term of
one year. Thereafter, the chairman shall be elected at the annual meeting to be
held in the month of June. First appointments of the members shall be: two (2)
members for one year, two (2) members for two (2) years, and three (3) members
for three (3) years, and thereafter appointments shall be for three (3) years.
Members may be appointed for additional three (3) year terms. An appointment by
the president, subject to confirmation by the corporate authorities, to fill a
vacancy in an unexpired term shall be for the remainder of the term. Members
shall serve until their successors have been appointed. When a member of the
commission has been unable to or has failed to attend meetings for health,
business or other reasons during a consecutive period of four (4) months, such
absence shall be construed, after notice to the member, as resigning from the
commission, except where the president determines, after consultation with a
member of the commissioner's family, that attendance at meetings can and will
be resumed. A vacancy thus created shall be filled as in the case of other
vacancies. Any member of the commission may be removed from office in the
manner provided by law. (Ord. 2009-05-12, 5-7-2009)
2-2-4: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The plan commission shall adopt such rules of procedure deemed necessary to
conduct meetings and public hearings and to carry out its duties, following
"Robert's Rules Of Order" in situations not covered by adopted rules. (Ord.
2009-05-12, 5-7-2009)
2-2-5: POWERS:
The plan commission shall have such powers as may be given to it by law, and
shall have, as is now provided by law, the following powers:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities a comprehensive
plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of the village.
Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional
parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan,
or part thereof, of the village. This plan may include reasonable requirements
with reference to streets, alleys, public grounds and other improvements
hereinafter specified. The plan, as recommended by the plan commission, and as
thereafter adopted, may be made applicable, by the terms thereof, to land
situated within the corporate limits and contiguous territory not more than one
and one-half (1.5) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included in any
municipality. Such plan may be implemented by ordinances:
      1.   Establishing reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for
resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in
respect to public improvements as herein defined;
      2.   Establishing reasonable requirements governing the location, width,
course and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
stormwater drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage
collection and treatment; and
      3.   May designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   B.   To recommend changes, from time to time, in the official comprehensive
plan.
   C.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities, from time to
time, plans for specific improvements in pursuance of the official
comprehensive plan.
   D.   To give aid to the municipal officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of these projects and, generally, to promote the realization of the
official comprehensive plan.
   E.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities schemes for
regulating or forbidding structures or activities which may hinder access to
solar energy necessary for the proper functioning of solar energy systems as
defined in section 1.2 of the comprehensive solar energy act of 1977, or to
recommend changes in such schemes.
   F.   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
section as may be conferred by the corporate authorities.
   G.   All testimony by witnesses at any hearing required by statute and
conducted by the plan commission shall be given under oath.
   H.   To provide advisory recommendations regarding Public Art Mural
Submissions.
   I.   For additional duties of the plan commission, see title 10, chapters 10
and 11 of this code.
(Ord. 2009-05-12, 5-7-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-05-09, 5-15-2025)
2-2-6: OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   A.   Plan Adopted: The official comprehensive plan for the present and
future development and redevelopment of the village consists of two volumes
entitled
      1.   Winfield Comprehensive Plan, prepared by Teska Associates, and dated
May 1, 2014.
      2.   Town Center Vision 3.0 Report, prepared by Kon Savoy Consulting
Group and dated January 24, 2023 The official comprehensive plan, as previously
or hereafter amended by the village, shall be effective upon the expiration
often (10) days after the date of filing the plan or amendments thereto with
the recorder of deeds of DuPage County as provided by 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-12-7.
   B.   General Development Plan Report Adopted: The general development plan
report, part I, background studies for planning, and the general development
plan, as now adopted or hereafter amended, shall be and the same hereby are
adopted as part of the official comprehensive plan for the village as approved
and adopted by subsection A of this section.
(Ord. 97-4-21, 4-17-1997; amd. Ord. 2023-04-06, 4-6-2023)
2-2-7: PUBLIC ART MURAL PROGRAM:
2-2-7-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
   There is hereby created and established a Public Art Mural Program for the
Village.
(Ord. 2025-05-09, 5-15-2025)
2-2-7-2: PURPOSE:
   The Public Art Mural Program is designed to enhance the character and
aesthetics of the community as well as embody walls with history, storytelling
and placemaking that will help distinguish the Village from other communities.
(Ord. 2025-05-09, 5-15-2025)
2-2-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
PUBLIC ART MURAL: A large painting or other work of visual art applied directly
on the side exterior wall of a building visible from a public right-of-way or
other public area. A Public Art Mural shall not function as signage or
advertisement for an on-site or off-site business and shall not contain hidden
or overt text, logos, symbols, slogans or trademarks that convey commercial
content and/or advertise for products or services.
(Ord. 2025-05-09, 5-15-2025)
2-2-7-4: PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION:
   The Plan and Zoning Commission shall manage and administer the Public Art
Mural Program on behalf of the Village. The Village Manager shall develop,
publish and, when necessary and prudent to the administration of the program,
may amend program guidelines consistent with this Subdivision to administer the
Public Art Mural Program on behalf of the Village and to guide participants on
the terms, conditions and requirements for participation in the program. The
Village Board of Trustees are authorized to issue resolutions approving Public
Art Murals as recommended by the Plan and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 2025-05-09, 5-15-2025)
2-2-7-5: ELIGIBILITY:
   To be eligible for the Public Art Mural Program, the subject property shall
be in the TC-Town Center, B-1 General Business, any commercial areas that are
part of a residential planned development (Prairie Trail Shopping Center,
Winfield Pointe) and any public park, with the appropriate Park District's
written permission.
(Ord. 2025-05-09, 5-15-2025)
2-2-7-6: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
A Public Art Mural application shall be submitted to the Village Manager's
office which includes the following documents:
   A.   A color rendering of the proposed mural, including dimensions and a
site rendering of the proposed wall or fa9ade upon which the mural would be
installed or affixed.
   B.   An aerial map providing the location where the proposed mural would be
installed and photographs of the site location and its immediate surroundings.
   C.   A narrative that includes a written description of the proposed mural,
the project timeline, budget and funding sources.
   D.   Resume or biography for each artist involved in the design of the mural
that includes a list of examples of their previous mural projects work and the
location of each project.
   E.   A maintenance plan that includes the proposed timeline or lifespan of
the mural, information on wall preparation, proposed materials, installation
process, information on the intended protective coating to be used and a
statement attesting that the coating will be applied in order to preserve the
integrity of the building, structure and mural.
   F.   The applicant shall provide a Maintenance and Removal of Mural
Agreement, executed by the artist and property owner, which shall contain a
waiver of the Visual Artists' Rights Act, 17 U.S.C. §§ 106, 106A and 113, as
amended, executed by the artist.
(Ord. 2025-05-09, 5-15-2025)
2-2-7-7: STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL:
A Public Art Mural application shall be reviewed according to the following
standards:
   A.   The Public Art Mural content shall meet the Code definition and be
focused on presenting history, storytelling or placemaking content.
   B.   The Public Art Mural content should inspire, educate or advocate for at
least one aspect of the community vibrancy, diversity, traditions or family-
friendly character of Winfield.
   C.   The applicant demonstrates that the intended materials will be
effective for long-term durability and exposure to the elements, and that the
Public Art Mural will be sealed with anti-graffiti and UV resistant coating by
the artist upon completion of the mural.
   D.   The applicant shall provide a schedule for maintenance which the
property owner has agreed to follow for a five (5)-year term following
completion of mural installation.
   E.   The Public Art Mural will not create a danger for motorists or
pedestrians, nor will it limit the use or enjoyment of an adjacent property or
a property with a clear line of sight to the mural.
   F.   The surface on which the Public Art Mural is to be applied does have
appropriate structural integrity to support the chosen application method.
(Ord. 2025-05-09, 5-15-2025)
2-2-7-8: INSTALLATION PROVISIONS:
A Public Art Mural shall be installed in compliance with the following
provisions:
   A.   Public Art Murals shall be permitted uses in the TC-Town Center, B-
1 General Business zoning districts, any commercial areas that are part of a
residential planned development (Prairie Trail Shopping Center, Winfield
Pointe), and any public park, with the appropriate Park District's written
permission.
   B.   Public Art Murals are limited to one (1) wall per building and one (1)
per zoning lot.
   C.   Public Art Murals are limited to secondary facades, not primary street
frontages.
   D.   Public Art Murals shall not interrupt major architectural features such
as doors and windows.
   E.   A Public Art Mural may not extend more than six inches (6") from the
plane of the wall it is placed upon.
   F.   Public Art Murals shall be applied with materials manufactured with the
expectation of long-term durability and exposure to the elements.
   G.   Public Art Murals shall be sealed with anti-graffiti and UV resistant
coating by the artist upon completion of the mural.
   H.   Public Art Murals shall not be illuminated by artificial lighting.
   I.   Property owners on both sides of the same block where an approved
Public Art Mural will be installed shall be notified in writing of the
installation.
(Ord. 2025-05-09, 5-15-2025)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 1
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Continued; Composition And Terms
2-3-2: Appointments; Vacancies; Removals
2-3-3: Organization
2-3-4: Compensation
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-11-1-2 of this code.
2-3-1: BOARD CONTINUED; COMPOSITION AND TERMS:
There is hereby continued as previously established a zoning board of appeals
for the village. Said board shall consist of seven (7) members to serve
respectively for terms of five (5) years. All board members shall be residents
of the village of Winfield, except that one member may be a resident in
unincorporated territory contained within the village's comprehensive planning
area. (Ord. 2014-01-02, 1-16-2014)
2-3-2: APPOINTMENTS; VACANCIES; REMOVALS:
All appointments to the zoning board of appeals shall be made by the village
president subject to approval of the board of trustees. The board shall elect
from its membership a chairperson. Said chairperson and members of the board
shall serve until the expiration of their current terms or until their
respective successors have been duly appointed and qualified. Vacancies shall
be filled for the unexpired terms of the members whose places have become
vacant in the manner herein provided for the appointment of such members. The
president, subject to the approval of the board of trustees, shall have the
power to remove any member of the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 687, 3-28-
1985)
2-3-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Meetings: All meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be held at
the call of the chairman, and at such other times as the zoning board of
appeals may determine. All testimony by witnesses at any hearing provided for
in the zoning ordinance 1  shall be given under oath. The chairperson, or in
his absence the acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel attendance
of witnesses. All meetings of the board shall be open to the public. The board
shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon
every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and
shall also keep records of its examinations and other official actions.
   B.   Rules Of Procedure: The zoning board of appeals shall adopt its own
rules of procedure not in conflict with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-
3 and the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Voting: The concurring vote of four (4) members of the zoning board of
appeals shall be necessary on any matter upon which it is authorized to make a
recommendation. A member who did not attend the public hearing can vote if he
reviews the transcript of the hearing and complies with 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-13-3. (Ord. 687, 3-28-1985)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 10 of this code.
2-3-4: COMPENSATION:
Members of the zoning board of appeals shall serve without compensation. (Ord.
687, 3-28-1985)
CHAPTER 4
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
(Rep. by Ord. 2015-05-19, 5-21-2015)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Board Created
2-5-2: Terms And Qualifications
2-5-3: Duties
2-5-4: Rules And Regulations
2-5-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created a Winfield board of fire and police commissioners,
which board shall consist of three (3) members to be appointed by the village
president, with the consent of the village trustees. (1994 Code)
2-5-2: TERMS AND QUALIFICATIONS:
Members of the board of fire and police commissioners shall serve for a term of
three (3) years. Qualifications of the board shall be according to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-3. (1994 Code)
2-5-3: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the board of fire and police commissioners to make
appointments to police and fire departments of the village 1  where applicable,
and said board shall conduct and hold all entrance and promotional examinations
and exercise such other powers and duties as provided by law 2 . (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5 of this code.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-11.
2-5-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Pursuant to law 1 , the board of fire and police commissioners shall publish a
set of rules to be known as the rules and regulations of the Winfield,
Illinois, board of fire and police commissioners, and said rules are hereby
incorporated into and made a part of this chapter by reference. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-5.
CHAPTER 6
INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-6-1: Participation In Intergovernmental Risk Management Agency
2-6-2: Powers
2-6-1: PARTICIPATION IN INTERGOVERNMENT RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY:
The president and village clerk are hereby authorized to execute on behalf of
the village the contract and bylaws of the intergovernmental risk management
agency. A copy of the contract and bylaws as currently amended is appended to
ordinance 695 as exhibit A and made a part of this chapter by reference.
The participation of the village as a member of the agency shall commence on
January 1, 1986. (Ord. 695, 8-22-1985)
2-6-2: POWERS:
The powers of the agency, unless the contract and bylaws be amended, shall be
limited to those contained within said exhibit A. (Ord. 695, 8-22-1985)
CHAPTER 7
INTERGOVERNMENTAL BENEFIT COOPERATIVE CONTRACT
SECTION:
2-7-1: Intergovernmental Benefit Cooperative Contract Approved
2-7-1: INTERGOVERNMENTAL BENEFIT COOPERATIVE CONTRACT APPROVED:
The first revised intergovernmental benefit cooperative contract attached to
ordinance 92-1-1 as exhibit 1 on file in the office of the village clerk shall
be and it is hereby approved, and the village president and village clerk shall
be and they are hereby authorized and directed to execute and attest same in
substantially the form attached to ordinance 92-1-1 on file in the office of
the village clerk. (Ord. 92-1-1, 1-16-1992)
CHAPTER 8
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND COMMUNICATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Commission Created
2-8-2: Appointment, Term And Removal Of Members
2-8-3: Officers; Bylaws; Meetings
2-8-4: Purpose, Powers And Duties
2-8-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created an economic development and communication commission of
the village which is now renamed to the marketing and communications
commission. (Ord. 2016-05-11, 5-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-08-19, 8-15-2019)
2-8-2: APPOINTMENT, TERM AND REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
The marketing and communications commission shall consist of eleven (11)
members:
   A.   Up to two (2) members may be non-residents falling into either or both
of the following categories: one (1) non-resident living in unincorporated
property located within the boundaries of Winfield's comprehensive planning
area and/or one (1) resident or non-resident who is an owner or representative
of a business or non-profit entity located within the village's boundaries.
   B.   Up to two (2) village trustees.
   C.   The remaining members shall be residents of Winfield. They shall be
appointed to overlapping terms by the village president with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees.
The initial appointed term of each member at the formation of the commission
shall be three (3) years, two (2) years, or one (1) year, provided, however,
each commissioner shall serve until a successor is duly appointed and
qualified. The terms of such commission members shall be staggered so that not
more than four (4) terms shall expire in any one (1) year. Subsequent terms for
renewal or replacement for all members will be for a three (3) year term. Any
member of the commission may be removed by the village president with the
advice and consent of the board of trustees. (Ord. 2016-05-11, 5-5-2016; amd.
Ord. 2019-08-19, 8-15-2019)
2-8-3: OFFICERS; BYLAWS; MEETINGS:
   A.   Chairman Of The Commission: The commission shall elect its own
chairperson from amongst its members and the chairman’s tenure should coincide
with the term the person has on the commission. The commission may determine
such other offices and elect such other officers as may be necessary to fulfill
its duties and responsibilities.
   B.   Bylaws: The commission shall adopt such rules governing its procedures
and regulating its business as it shall from time to time deem appropriate.
   C.   Meetings: The commission shall meet from time to time on the call of
the chairman, provided, however, that the commission shall meet at least ten
(10) meetings per annum. (Ord. 2016-05-11, 5-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-08-19, 8-
15-2019)
2-8-4: PURPOSE, POWERS AND DUTIES:
The purpose of the commission is to:
   A.   Make recommendations to the village president, board of trustees, and
village staff that would facilitate and improve communication between the
village and the residents of the community and local businesses.
   B.   Work with, advise and assist the village president, board of trustees
and village staff on communications media, including, but not limited to, the
village newsletter, village website, social media, guidelines for emergency
communications, cable public access channel, public relations, and other
marketing or media used to promote the village and inform the residents.
   C.   Propose, work with, and advise the village president and the board of
trustees on technology improvements including, but not limited to,
communication technologies.
   D.   Work with and advise the village president, board of trustees and
village staff on proposals and contracts incidental to the purpose of the
commission.
   E.   Propose, develop, coordinate and advise the village president, board of
trustees and village staff on initiatives related to the branding, marketing,
and promotion of the village.
   F.   Propose initiatives and advise the village president, board of trustees
and village staff on issues related to new    ordinances, and changes to
existing ordinances, that would improve communications, technology.
   G.   Perform such duties as assigned to it from time to time by the village
president and board of trustees.
   H.   Serve as the lead commission or as a participating commission on
specific assignments given by the village board incidental to the purpose of
the commission.
   I.   Work or propose marketing actions to attract development to all areas
of the village.
   J.   With approval of the village board, coordinate marketing and
promotional economic activities that benefit village business and residents.
(Ord. 2016-05-11, 5-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-08-19, 8-15-2019)
CHAPTER 9
ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 2013-02-08, 2-21-2013)
CHAPTER 10
TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2010-02-02, 1-4-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 12 of this title.
CHAPTER 11
ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-11-1: Created
2-11-2: Appointment, Term And Removal Of Members
2-11-3: Officers; Bylaws; Meetings
2-11-4: Purpose, Powers And Duties
2-11-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created an administration and finance committee of the village
of Winfield. (Ord. 2006-11-53, 11-20-2006)
2-11-2: APPOINTMENT, TERM AND REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
The administration and finance committee shall consist of the village
treasurer, three (3) village board members and a village resident who shall be
appointed by the village president. The village manager and finance director
shall staff the committee and have nonvoting status. Any member of the
committee may be removed by the village president for any reason. (Ord. 2006-
11-53, 11-20-2006)
2-11-3: OFFICERS; BYLAWS; MEETINGS:
   A.   Leadership Of The Committee: The chairman and vice chairman of the
committee shall be appointed by the village president and shall serve for a two
(2) year term or until a successor is duly appointed and qualified.
   B.   Bylaws: The committee shall operate under the following set of bylaws:
      1.   Notices of meetings shall be posted and distributed to the members
of the media in accordance with state statutes.
      2.   Agendas and materials for meetings shall be distributed to members
not less than three (3) calendar days prior to the scheduled meeting.
      3.   Minutes of the committee meetings shall be kept in accordance with
state statutes.
      4.   The outline of the meeting order shall be as follows:
         a.   Call to order; roll call.
         b.   Approval of minutes.
         c.   Review of investments.
         d.   Old business.
         e.   New business.
         f.   Executive session (if required).
      5.   Advisory matters to be presented to the village board of final
resolution shall be accompanied by a voted upon motion of the committee.
   C.   Meetings: The committee shall meet from time to time on the call of the
chairman, provided, however, that the committee shall maintain at least one
meeting date per quarter. No meeting will be called unless proper notification
has been made in accordance with state statute. (Ord. 2006-11-53, 11-20-2006)
2-11-4: PURPOSE, POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The purpose of the committee is to facilitate recommendations to the
village president and board of trustees with regard to financial and
administration matters, and provide guidance on the village's investment
activities, pursuant to the village's investment policy. The areas of
responsibility shall include providing direction to the finance director and
treasurer on the investment of idle village funds, and reviewing and
recommending to the village board on:
      1.   The annual operating and capital improvement budgets of the village;
      2.   The selection of the auditing firm;
      3.   Results of the annual audit and acceptance of the same;
      4.   The long range financial plan;
      5.   The long range capital improvement plan;
      6.   Amendments to the annual budget appropriation; fees, charges and
taxes;
      7.   Personnel rules and regulations;
      8.   Matters of intergovernmental relations; and
      9.   The annual pay and benefit plan.
   B.   The committee shall also perform such duties as assigned to it from
time to time by the village president and board of trustees. (Ord. 2006-11-53,
11-20-2006)
CHAPTER 12
TRAFFIC AND PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE
(Rep. by Ord. 2013-02-08, 2-21-2013)
CHAPTER 13
PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-13-1: Committee Created
2-13-2: Appointment, Term And Removal Of Members
2-13-3: Officers; Bylaws; Meetings
2-13-4: Purpose, Powers And Duties
2-13-1: COMMITTEE CREATED:
There is hereby created a public works committee of the village of Winfield.
(Ord. 2007-6-35, 6-21-2007)
2-13-2: APPOINTMENT, TERM AND REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
   A.   Official Members: The public works committee shall consist of two (2)
village board members and five (5) citizens at large, all subject to
appointment by the village president and confirmation by a vote of the village
trustees. The village manager, village engineer, and public works
superintendent or their designees shall staff the committee and have nonvoting
status. Members at large shall serve for two (2) year terms and may serve
consecutive terms. Any member of the committee may be removed by the village
president for any reason. All citizen at large committee members shall be
residents of the village, except that one member may be a resident in
unincorporated territory contained within the village's comprehensive planning
area. (Ord. 2014-01-02, 1-16-2014)
2-13-3: OFFICERS; BYLAWS; MEETINGS:
   A.   Leadership Of The Committee: The chairman and vice chairman of the
committee shall be appointed by the village president and shall serve for a two
(2) year term or until a successor is duly appointed and qualified. The
chairman and vice chairman may serve consecutive terms.
   B.   Bylaws: The committee shall operate under the following set of bylaws:
      1.   Notices of meetings shall be posted and distributed to the members
of the media in accordance with state statutes.
      2.   Agendas and materials for meetings shall be distributed to members
not less than three (3) calendar days prior to the scheduled meeting.
      3.   Minutes of the committee meetings shall be kept in accordance with
state statutes.
      4.   The outline of the meeting order shall be as follows:
         a.   Call to order; roll call
         b.   Approval of minutes
         c.   Public input
         d.   Old business
         e.   New business
         f.   Executive session (if required).
      5.   Advisory matters to be presented to the village board of final
resolution shall be accompanied by a voted upon motion of the committee.
   C.   Meetings: The committee shall meet from time to time on the call of the
chairman; provided, however, that the committee shall maintain at least one
meeting date per quarter. No meeting will be called unless proper notification
has been made in accordance with state statute. (Ord. 2007-6-35, 6-21-2007)
2-13-4: PURPOSE, POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The purpose of the committee is to facilitate recommendations to the
village president and board of trustees with regard to public works matters.
The areas of responsibility shall include research, review and making
recommendations to the village board on:
      1.   Capital improvement plans and actual projects;
      2.   Utility rate studies in concert with the administration finance
committee;
      3.   Public works related studies;
      4.   Public works related grants;
      5.   Stormwater and flooding issues;
      6.   Environmental and community health issues;
      7.   Traffic and transportation;
      8.   Monthly statistical report of the public works department; and
      9.   Bids for the purchase of public works equipment. (Ord. 2013-02-08,
2-21-2013)
   B.   The committee shall also perform such duties as assigned to it from
time to time by the village president and board of trustees. (Ord. 2007-6-35,
6-21-2007)
CHAPTER 14
JOINT REVIEW BOARD
SECTION:
2-14-1: Joint Review Board
2-14-2: Setting Time And Place For Public Hearing
2-14-3: Authorization For Public Notices And Other Action
2-14-1: JOINT REVIEW BOARD:
   A.   Joint Review Board Established; Membership. The Joint Review Board is
hereby established pursuant to Section 11-74.4-5 of the TIF Act. The Joint
Review Board shall consist of the Village President, or his designee, one
representative of the public chosen by the members of the Joint Review Board,
and one representative chosen by each of the following taxing districts that
have authority to directly levy taxes on the real property located within the
Redevelopment Area: College of DuPage 502, Community High School District 94,
Winfield School District 34, Winfield Park District, Winfield Library District,
Winfield Township, Winfield Fire Protection District, and DuPage County.
   B.   Notice of Meeting of the Joint Review Board. The Village will deliver
notice as required by the TIF Act of the time and place of the meeting of the
Joint Review Board, which meeting will occur on August 3, 2021, at 3:00 p.m.,
at the Winfield Village Hall, 27W465 Jewell Road, Winfield, Illinois. (Ord.
2021-07-14, 7-15-2021)
2-14-2: SETTING TIME AND PLACE FOR PUBLIC HEARING:
The Village President and Board of Trustees hereby establishes September 16,
2021, at 7:00 p.m. as the date and time for a public hearing on the possible
establishment of a TIF District, the designation of a redevelopment project
area, and the consideration of a Redevelopment Plan and Project for the
Redevelopment Area. The public hearing will be held at Winfield Village Hall,
27W465 Jewell Road, Winfield, Illinois. The Village Board reserves the right to
continue the hearing to a later date and time without further published notice
should a continuance become necessary. (Ord. 2021-07-14, 7-15-2021)
2-14-3: AUTHORIZATION FOR PUBLIC NOTICES AND OTHER ACTION:
The Village President and Board of Trustees hereby authorizes and directs the
Village Manager and the Village Clerk, in consultation with KMA and the Village
Attorney, to do or cause to be done all things necessary or desirable for
purposes of giving the public notice of the September 16, 2021, public hearing,
including the publication of notice in substantially the form attached to this
Resolution as Exhibit C, and any and all other statutorily required steps
precedent to the establishment of a TIF District in the Redevelopment Area and
the adoption of a Redevelopment Plan and Project. (Ord. 2021-07-14, 7-15-2021)
CHAPTER 15
COMMUNITY EVENTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-15-1: Creation And Membership
2-15-2: Powers And Duties
2-15-3: Meetings
2-15-1: CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   There is hereby established a commission to be known as the Community
Events Commission of the Village. It shall be the duty of the commission to
develop, promote and coordinate a series of community events for the enjoyment
and education of the residents of the Village and visitors to our Village.
   B.   The commission shall consist of (11) members, a majority of whom shall
be residents of the Village and/or employees of Winfield Governmental Bodies.
The Village President shall appoint the members of the commission with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village President shall
appoint the chairperson. The Village President shall be an ex officio member of
the commission. Each member and the chairperson so appointed, shall serve
staggered four (4) year terms, The President will determine the staggered
terms. The chairperson shall serve no more than two (2) consecutive terms as
chairperson.
   C.   A member may be removed by the Village President for any reason with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, including but not limited to
failure to attend at least fifty percent (50%) of the meetings. (Ord. 2023-02-
04, 2-16-2023)
2-15-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   All activities organized by the commission shall be conducted within
the financial constraints placed upon the commission established by the Village
President and Board of Trustees through passage of the annual budget for the
Village.
   B.   The commission shall operate as follows:
      1.   Notices of meetings shall be posted at Village Hall and distributed
to the members of the media in accordance with state statutes.
      2.   Meetings shall include public comments and otherwise comply with the
Open Meetings Act.
      3.   Minutes of the committee meetings shall be kept in accordance with
state statutes.
   C.   The commission shall have the authority to recommend approval of
agreements with participants, organizations, bands and/or groups solicited by
the commission to participate in the specific events organized or coordinated
by the commission. Grant requests and agreements will be reviewed by the
commission with recommendations forwarded to the Village Board.
   D.   The commission shall submit a calendar of events for the Village to the
Village President and Board of Trustees on a quarterly basis or sooner as
needed.
   E.   The commission shall have the authority on behalf of the Village to
solicit sponsorships in furtherance of the promotion and/or staging of any
special events, the commission shall have the authority to recommend approval
of agreements for sponsorship of Village special events. All contributions
shall be solicited, submitted and accepted in accordance with village policy
and all applicable laws. (Ord. 2023-02-04, 2-16-2023)
2-15-3: MEETINGS:
The commission shall meet on a regular basis on a schedule established by the
commission. (Ord. 2023-02-04, 2-16-2023)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Applications For License Or Permit
3-1-4: Businesses For Which License Is Required
3-1-5: Exemptions
3-1-6: Persons Subject To License
3-1-7: Investigations And Inspections
3-1-8: Fees
3-1-9: Termination Of Licenses
3-1-10: Posting License
3-1-11: Building And Premises
3-1-12: Change Of Location
3-1-13: Nuisances
3-1-14: Hawkers, Itinerant Merchants, Peddlers And Transient Vendors
3-1-15: Suspension, Revocation Of License
3-1-16: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
FOOD STORE: Any place where food or drink is prepared, handled, stored, offered
for sale, or sold at wholesale or retail.
HAWKER: A "peddler", as defined herein, who cries his wares or goods or
exhibits them for sale.
ITINERANT MERCHANT: A person who, for a short period of time, locates in a
municipality and makes a sale and delivery of their goods or wares, or who
carries his goods or wares from place to place and makes sales and delivery of
those goods or wares. The term includes those persons who sell food or drink
from locations that don't otherwise qualify as a food store or temporary
restaurant service facility.
PEDDLER: A person who travels about selling small wares or goods which he
carries with him. The term does not include a person who just carries samples
and takes orders, but does include those persons who sell food or drink from
locations that don't otherwise qualify as a food store or temporary restaurant
service facility.
RESTAURANT OR FOOD SERVICE FACILITY: An eating or drinking establishment or
place in which food or drink is prepared for sale for human consumption on or
off the premises.
TEMPORARY RESTAURANT OR FOOD SERVICE FACILITY: A restaurant or food service
facility operating for a temporary period in connection with a fair, carnival,
circus, public exhibition, or similar gathering for no longer than four (4)
days in succession.
TRANSIENT VENDOR: See definition of Itinerant Merchant. (Ord. 90-12-1, 12-13-
1990)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any business for which a
license is by this chapter required without possessing a valid license from the
village. (Ord. 90-12-1, 12-13-1990)
Exceptions for certain businesses: "Home occupation", as defined in section
10-1-4 of this code, in which the occupation consists entirely of communication
and that involves no deliveries to the property by semitractor/trailer trucks,
and where no employees, clients, customers or students come to the premises for
goods and services, shall not be required to obtain a business license. Every
person who engages in a home occupation not required to obtain a business
license may file a statement with the village clerk indicating the nature and
scope of the home occupation. (Ord. 2011-11-17, 11-17-2011)
3-1-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this chapter, shall be
made in writing to the village clerk on the application form provided by the
clerk. Each application shall state the name and address of the applicant, the
purpose for which the permit or license is desired, the location to be used,
and the time for which the permit is sought in the case of a temporary permit.
(Ord. 90-12-1, 12-13-1990)
3-1-4: BUSINESSES FOR WHICH LICENSE IS REQUIRED:
Auto dealers/sales and repairs, see motor vehicles.
Auto repairs (garages).
Bankers.
Barbershops.
Beauty shops.
Cable antenna television systems.
Coal, lumber and material yards.
Dry cleaners.
Electrical contractors.
Filling stations.
Florists.
Food dealers including:
Bakeries.
Food manufacturers and delivery vehicles.
Fruit stores.
Grocery stores.
Ice cream parlors.
Markets.
Meat dealers.
Milk dealers.
Restaurants.
Tobacconists.
Hawker.
Heating, air conditioning and refrigeration contractors.
Hospitals.
Hotels or motels.
Intoxicating liquor dealers.
Itinerant merchant.
Laundromat with coin operated device and attendant.
Laundromat with coin operated device only.
Laundry, cleaning and dyeing.
Laundry, cleaning and dyeing with trucks (per truck over 1).
Manufacturers/machine shops.
Masonry contractors.
Motor vehicles, dealers in dismantled or wrecked vehicles.
Peddlers.
Plumbing contractors and shops.
Refuse hauler (scavenger), exclusive contract.
Refuse hauler (scavenger), residential special pick up only/commercial.
Roofing contractors.
Secondhand articles.
Street advertising/sign painting.
Temporary restaurant or food service facility.
Transient vendor.
Undertaking establishments.
Any and all establishments or businesses not herein specifically named. (Ord.
90-12-1, 12-13-1990)
3-1-5: EXEMPTIONS:
No license is required of any person or business that is specifically by State
or Federal law exempted from the licensing authority of a municipality. (Ord.
90-12-1, 12-13-1990)
3-1-6: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this chapter a license is required for the maintenance, operation
or conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging
in any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to
the requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee or partner he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the Village, but no more than one
person is required to be licensed for the same business. (Ord. 90-12-1, 12-13-
1990)
3-1-7: INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where
ordinances of the Village necessitate an inspection or investigation before the
issuance of such permit or license, the Village Clerk shall refer such
application to the proper officer for making such investigation within forty
eight (48) hours of the time of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty
of making the investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon,
favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the application or
a copy thereof. Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection
with the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for as
required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with
any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty
of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to
admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee
of the Village who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any
reasonable time that admission is requested, and by applying for a business
license the applicant consents to such inspections or investigations.
   B.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall make or cause to be made any such
inspections relative to the construction or use of building residences or other
structures. All other investigations except where otherwise provided, shall be
made by the Chief of Police or by some other officer designated by the Village
Manager. (Ord. 90-12-1, 12-13-1990)
3-1-8: FEES:
The State of Illinois prohibits municipalities from regulating certain
professions, whose licensure is regulated by the State 1 . However, the Village
does require State regulated businesses and professionals to register with the
Village Clerk. The business license and registration fee schedule is found at
section
13-1-3-1 of this Code.
Schedules provided elsewhere:
Cable antenna television systems - exclusive franchise fees pursuant to
Ordinance 557, as amended.
Hotels or Motels Tax pursuant to section
3-2-4 of this title, as amended.
Intoxicating liquor dealers, license fees pursuant to section
3-3-6 of this title, as amended.
Street advertising/sign painting. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See ILCS chapters 205, 210, 215 and 225.
3-1-9: TERMINATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   All annual licenses shall terminate on December 31. Temporary licenses
or permits shall terminate on the date specified in the permit.
   B.   The Village Clerk shall mail to all licensees of the Village a
statement of the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an
annual, three (3) weeks prior to the date of such expiration. Provided, that a
failure to send out such notice, or the failure of the licensee to receive it,
shall not excuse the licensee from a failure to obtain a new license, or a
renewal thereof, nor shall it be a defense in an action for operation without
having a license. (Ord. 90-12-1, 12-13-1990)
3-1-10: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
Village for which a licensee is by this ordinance required to keep his license
posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such business at all
times. (Ord. 90-12-1, 12-13-1990)
3-1-11: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit shall
be issued for any thing, or act, if the premises or the building to be used for
the purpose do not fully comply with any ordinance of the Village. No such
license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the Zoning Ordinance
of the Village 1 . (Ord. 90-12-1, 12-13-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this Code.
3-1-12: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted act,
may be changed, provided: a) that a ten (10) day notice thereof is given to the
Village Clerk, b) that the new location qualifies for a license as provided in
section
3-1-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 90-12-1, 12-13-1990)
3-1-13: NUISANCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any business, licensed or not, to be conducted
or operated: 1) so as to become a nuisance to the public health, safety and
welfare; or 2) in violation of any applicable Code or ordinance of the Village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or manager of any restaurant or
other public place for eating or place for amusement to suffer or permit the
consumption of or possession of alcohol or liquor on the business premises in
violation of chapter 3 of this title.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or manager of any restaurant or
other public place for eating or place for amusement to suffer or permit the
consumption of alcohol by a minor on the business premises. (Ord. 2001-7-20, 7-
5-2001)
3-1-14: HAWKERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS 1 :
   A.   Exemptions: No license fee is required from persons hawking, peddling
or selling product of his own garden or farm.
   B.   Unauthorized Sales: Any licensed transient vendor, itinerant merchant,
peddler or hawker who shall barter, sell or peddle any goods, or wares or
merchandise other than those specified in his application for a license shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each such offense and the President and Board of Trustees may
revoke his license for such offense. (Ord. 90-12-1, 12-13-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 6 of this title.
3-1-15: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The annual license provided for in this chapter may be suspended for a period
of time not to exceed fourteen (14) days, or may be revoked by the Village
President and Board of Trustees, upon a written finding of fact adopted by a
majority vote that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter. However, such license may be revoked only after a public hearing by
the Board of Trustees with no less than fifteen (15) days' written notice to
the applicant at the time and place of the hearing. (Ord. 90-12-1, 12-13-1990)
3-1-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined as provided
in section
13-1-3 of this Code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
2012-08-18, 8-2-2012; amd. per correspondence dated 7-31-2018)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-2-1.1: Non-Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-2-1.2: Non-Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-2-2: Non-Home Rule Municipal Use Tax
3-2-3: Municipal Utility Tax
3-2-3.1: Electrical Utility Tax
3-2-4: Hotel Operators' Tax
3-2-5: Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
3-2-1.1: NON-HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A non-home rule tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property, other than an
item of tangible personal property titled or registered with an agency of this
state's government, at retail in the village at the rate of three-quarters of
one percent (0.75%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of
such business. This non-home rule municipal retailers' occupation tax shall not
be applicable to the sales of food for human consumption which is to be
consumed off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages,
soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and
prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and
insulin, urine testing materials, syringes, and needles used by diabetics.
The imposition of this non-home rule tax is in accordance with the provisions
of section 8-11-1.3 of the Illinois municipal code 1  and shall be in addition
to such other taxes as are authorized by law. (Ord. 2014-04-09, 4-3-2014)
   B.   Collection And Enforcement: The tax hereby imposed and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto shall be collected and
enforced by the department of revenue of the state of Illinois. The department
of revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this section.
   C.   Use Of Tax Revenues: The tax revenues received by the village pursuant
to this section shall be maintained in a special fund and shall only be
expended for municipal operations, public infrastructure or for property tax
relief as defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 8-11-1.2, as now existing or
hereafter amended. (Ord. 2013-08-24, 8-1-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-04-09, 4-3-2014;
Ord. 2023-04-09, 4-20-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.3.
3-2-1.2: NON-HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A non-home rule tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of services at the
rate of three-quarters of one percent (0.75%) of the selling price of all
tangible personal property transferred by such serviceman as an incident to a
sale of service. This non-home rule municipal service occupation tax shall not
be applicable to the sales of food for human consumption which is to be
consumed off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages,
soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and
prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and
insulin, urine testing materials, syringes, and needles used by diabetics.
The imposition of this non-home rule tax is in accordance with the provisions
of section 8-11-1.4 of the Illinois municipal code 1  and shall be in addition
to such other taxes as are authorized by law.
   B.   Collection And Enforcement: The tax hereby imposed and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto shall be collected and
enforced by the department of revenue of the state of Illinois. The department
of revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this section.
   C.   Use Of Tax Revenues: The tax revenues received by the village pursuant
to this section shall be maintained in a special fund and shall only be
expended for municipal operations, public infrastructure or for property tax
relief as defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 8-11-1.2, as now existing or
hereafter amended.  (Ord. 2013-08-24, 8-1-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-04-09, 4-3-2014;
Ord. 2023-04-09, 4-20-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.4.
3-2-2: NON-HOME RULE MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A non-home rule tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege
of using, in the village, any item of tangible personal property which is
purchased at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an
agency of the government of the state of Illinois, based on the selling price
of such tangible personal property, as selling price is defined in 35 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 105/1 et seq., (the "use tax act"), as now existing or
hereafter amended. The imposition of this non-home rule tax is in accordance
with the provisions of section 8-11-1.5 of the Illinois municipal code 1  and
shall be in addition to such other taxes as are authorized by law.
   B.   Collection And Enforcement: The tax imposed by this section shall be
collected from persons whose Illinois address for title or registration
purposes is given as being in the village. The village shall collect such tax
in the manner hereinafter set forth.
   C.   Duties Of The Finance Director: Upon receiving information that a tax
is due under this section, the director of finance shall send notice to the
taxpayer of the amount due and owing the village and shall cause the person
liable for the tax to make immediate payment thereof to the village.
   D.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
enforcement of any provision of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) and, in addition shall be liable in a civil action for
the amount of the tax due plus a late charge in the amount of one percent (1%)
per month. A separate offense shall be determined to have been committed each
day during which or on which the violation occurs or continues.
   E.   Use Of Tax Revenues: The tax revenues received by the village pursuant
to this section shall be maintained in a special fund and shall only be
expended for municipal operations, public infrastructure, or for property tax
relief as defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 8-11-1.2, as now existing or
hereafter amended. (Ord. 2013-08-24, 8-1-2013)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.5.
3-2-3: MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
apply:
    GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity for use or consumption and not for
resale, as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered in connection therewith; and shall be determined without any
deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied,
the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses
whatsoever.
"Gross receipts" shall not include receipts received from the village or the
sale to the village of any utility products or services.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   TAXPAYER: A person who, individually or through his agents, employees or
permittees, engages in the act or privilege of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas or electricity and who incurs a tax liability under
this section.
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
Winfield, Illinois, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the
gross receipts therefrom.
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of Winfield, Illinois, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent
(5%) of the gross receipts therefrom.
   C.   Exemptions From Tax:
      1.   No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not,
under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas or electricity, be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
section for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the "municipal retailers' occupation tax act" authorized by
paragraph 5/8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code, approved July 25, 1961, as
amended 1 .
      2.   The tax imposed under this section shall not apply with respect to
gross receipts pertaining to bills for the distribution, supply, furnishing or
sale of electricity where the use or consumption of the electricity is subject
to the tax imposed under section
3-2-3.1 of this chapter.
   D.   Tax In Addition To Other Remuneration Or Services: Such tax shall be in
addition to the payment of money, or value of products or services furnished to
this municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets,
alleys or other public places, or installation and maintenance therein, thereon
or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used in the operation
of the taxpayer's business.
   E.   Tax Return: On or about December 31 and each quarter thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a return to the village treasurer for the preceding three
(3) months or any portion thereof stating:
      1.   His name;
      2.   His principal place of business;
      3.   His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed;
      4.   Amount of tax;
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   F.   Payment Of Tax: The taxpayer making the return herein provided for
shall, at the time of making such return, pay the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if it so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon its total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and taxable gross receipts.
   G.   Overpayment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid
which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as a result of
a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited
against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who
made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more
than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so
credited.
If a taxpayer under this section is unable to use a credit authorized by this
section solely because the tax imposed by this section has been replaced by the
tax imposed under section
3-2-3.1 of this chapter, then the taxpayer may apply such credit against any
tax due under section
3-2-3.1 of this chapter.
   H.   Collection Of Tax: No action to recover any amount of tax due under the
provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three (3) years after
the due date of such amount.
   I.   Violations: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of
the tax due. (Ord. 98-11-34, 11-19-1998, eff. 12-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS.
3-2-3.1: ELECTRICAL UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, unless the context
otherwise requires, the following definitions shall apply:
    PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, any state university created by statute, or a
receiver, trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of
any court.
   PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a public utility, as defined in section 8-11-2 of the
Illinois municipal code 1 , directly in the generation, production,
transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
   PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of
the village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
   TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
   VILLAGE: The village of Winfield. (Ord. 98-11-34, 11-19-1998, eff. 12-1-
1998)
   B.   Tax Imposed:
      1.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2 and any and all
other applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed
within the corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated
on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
Kilowatt Hours      Tax
Consumed In A Month (Per Kilowatt Hour)
Kilowatt Hours             Tax
Consumed In A Month        (Per Kilowatt Hour)
   For the first 2,000  $0.61
   For the next 48,000  0.40
   For the next 50,000  0.36
   For the next 400,000 0.35
   For the next 500,000 0.34
   For the next 2,000,000.32
   For the next 2,000,000.315
   For the next 5,000,000.31
   For the next 10,000,00.305
   In excess of 20,000,00.30
 
(Ord. 2009-06-16, 6-4-2009)
      2.   The tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures
imposed by the village, the state or any other political subdivision of the
state.
      3.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the tax shall
not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax
would violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the
constitution of the state.
      4.   The tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by residential customers beginning with the first bill issued on or
after January 1, 1999; and, with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by nonresidential customers, beginning with the first bill issued
to such customers for delivery services in accordance with section 16-104 of
the public utilities act 2 , or the first bill issued to such customers on or
after January 1, 2001, whichever issuance occurs sooner.
   C.   Collection Of Tax:
      1.   Subject to the provisions of subsection E of this section regarding
the delivery of electricity to resellers, the tax imposed under this section
shall be collected from purchasers by the person maintaining a place of
business in this state who delivers electricity to such purchasers. This tax
shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time and in the
same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
      2.   Any tax required to be collected by this section, and any tax in
fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the village by the person
delivering the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity
shall be allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the
charges for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that
if such charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be
obligated to remit such tax.
      3.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. To the extent permitted by law, persons delivering electricity
shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an amount equal to three
percent (3%) of the tax they collect to reimburse them for their expenses
incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and filing returns,
remitting the tax and supplying data to the village upon request. For purposes
of this section, any partial payment of a billed amount not specifically
identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the delivery of
electricity.
   D.   Tax Remittance And Return:
      1.   On or about January 31, 1999, and at the end of each month
thereafter, every tax collector shall file a return in a form prescribed by the
village manager or his designee. The return and accompanying remittance shall
be due on or before the last day of the month following the month during which
the tax is collected or is required to be collected under this section.
      2.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from
the purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax under subsection E of this
section, then the purchaser shall file a return in a form prescribed by the
village manager, or his designee, and pay the tax directly to the village
treasurer on or before the last day of the month following the quarter during
which the electricity is used or consumed.
   E.   Resales:
      1.   Electricity that is delivered to a person in this village shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the village
manager or his designee and furnishes that number to the person who delivers
the electricity, and certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely
or partially nontaxable as a sale for resale.
      2.   If a person who receives electricity in the village claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the village
manager or his designee for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts
showing why it is not liable for the tax imposed by this section on any
purchases of electricity and shall furnish such additional information as the
village may reasonably require.
      3.   Upon approval of the application, the village manager, or his
designee, shall assign a resale number to the applicant and shall certify the
number to the applicant.
      4.   The village may cancel the resale number of any person if the person
fails to pay any tax payable under this section for electricity used or
consumed by the person, or if the number:
         a.   Was obtained through misrepresentation, or
         b.   Is no longer necessary because the person has discontinued making
resales.
         c.   (1) If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or
consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by
this section directly to the village treasurer pursuant to subsection D of this
section, on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or consumes, and
shall collect the tax pursuant to subsection C of this section and remit the
tax pursuant to subsection D of this section on the amount of electricity
delivered by the reseller to a purchaser.
            (2)   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an
active resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section
shall be excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the
electricity delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to the
village manager or his designee the total amount of electricity delivered to
the reseller, and such other information that the village may reasonably
require.
   F.   Books And Records: Every tax collector and every taxpayer required to
pay the tax imposed by this section shall keep accurate books and records of
its business or activity, including contemporaneous books and records denoting
the transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability
under this section. The books and records shall be subject to and available for
inspection at all times during business hours of the day.
   G.   Credits And Refunds: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, in order to permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the village,
no person shall be entitled to a refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under
this section unless the person files a claim for refund or credit within one
year after the date on which the tax was paid or remitted to the village
treasurer.
   H.   Violations: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of
the tax due. (Ord. 98-11-34, 11-19-1998, eff. 12-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2 1. 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
3-2-4: HOTEL OPERATORS' TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    HOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses,
rooming houses and apartment houses.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupies or has the right to occupy any
room or rooms in a hotel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, or a receiver, executor,
trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   RENT OR RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
   ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
village in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel on the
gross rental receipts, the proceeds of such renting, leasing or letting to
permanent residents of that hotel. The tax shall be at the rate of five percent
(5%) of the gross rental receipts.
   C.   Tax Return: Each person subject to the tax imposed in subsection B of
this section shall make a tax return as required by this section to the village
treasurer on or before the tenth day of each month, stating:
      1.   Name;
      2.   Principal place of business;
      3.   Gross receipts during the prior month upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed;
      4.   Amount of tax;
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   D.   Payment Of Tax: Each person making the return shall, at the time of
making such return, pay to the village treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed.
   E.   Use Of Proceeds: The proceeds from the tax collected pursuant to this
section shall be used solely to promote tourism and conventions in the village
or otherwise to attract nonresident, overnight visitors to the village, unless
otherwise permitted by state law. No such funds shall be used to advertise for
or otherwise promote new competition in the hotel business. (Ord. 720, 7-24-
1986)
3-2-5: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX:
A.   Tax Imposed; Rate:
   1.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the village at the rate of
three percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of
that business.
   [NOTE: The tax may not exceed three percent (3%) of the gross receipts and
shall only be imposed in ¼% increments.]
   2.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-23, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-23).
B.   Collection Of Tax By Retailers:
   March 2020
3-2-5   3-2-5
   1.   The tax imposed by this article shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this article and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
   2.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this article. (Ord. 2020-02-01, 2-6-2020)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Liquor Control Commission
3-3-3: License Required; Compliance With Provisions
3-3-4: Application For License; Fingerprinting Fees
3-3-5: Restrictions On Issuance Of Licenses
3-3-6: License Classifications And Fees
3-3-7: Number Of Licenses Issued
3-3-8: Insurance Requirements
3-3-9: Term Of License
3-3-10: Disposition Of Fees
3-3-11: Renewal Of Licenses
3-3-12: Transfer Of License
3-3-13: Building And Location Restrictions
3-3-14: Conditions Of License
3-3-15: Happy Hours Prohibited
3-3-16: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited; Minors
3-3-17: Prohibited Conduct
3-3-17-1: Consumption Of Alcoholic Liquor In Public Places Prohibited
3-3-18: List Of Licenses Kept
3-3-19: Complaint Of Violation; Hearing
3-3-20: Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Appeals
3-3-21: Tax Delinquency
3-3-22: Penalty
3-3-23:    Surveillance System Assistance Grant Program
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall be construed to the definitions given below:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing more
than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume which is fit for
beverage purposes.
HOURS OF OPERATION: The time period during which alcoholic liquor may be sold
or offered for sale.
RESTAURANT: Any business establishment used, maintained, advertised and held
out to the public primarily as a place where food is served and where food is
actually and regularly served for consumption at tables in nondisposable
containers on the premises having employed therein a sufficient number and kind
of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAIL SALE: The sale of alcoholic liquor for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
SPECIALTY DRINKS: Any alcoholic beverage made in part by mixing any alcoholic
liquor with a nonalcoholic mix. The drink must contain a majority of the
nonalcoholic mix. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-2: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION:
Established by the Illinois liquor control act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes (hereafter "ILCS"):
   A.   Liquor Control Commissioner: The president of the village board of
trustees shall be the local liquor control commissioner 1  for the village
(hereinafter referred to as commissioner) and shall be charged with the
administration of this chapter and other ordinances or resolutions relating to
alcoholic liquor.
   B.   Additional Members Of Commission: The commissioner may appoint not more
than two (2) persons residing in the village to assist him in the exercise of
the powers and the performance of the duties provided for in accordance with
the provisions of an act of the general assembly of the state of Illinois
entitled "an act relating to alcoholic liquors", approved January 31, 1934, and
all acts amendatory thereto 2 , and as provided for in this chapter.
   C.   Powers And Duties Of Commissioner: The commissioner shall have the
following powers, functions and duties with respect to licenses:
      1.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause any local licenses issued pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by the village
of Winfield or by the state commission have been or are being violated and at
such time to examine said premises of said licensee in connection therewith.
      3.   To notify the secretary of state where a club incorporated under the
general not for profit corporation act or a foreign corporation functioning as
a club in this state under a certificate of authority issued under that act has
violated the liquor control act of 1934 3  by selling or offering for sale at
retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer's license.
      4.   To receive any complaint from any citizen within the village as
provided in section
3-3-19 of this chapter that any of the provisions of chapter 235 (dramshops) of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or of this chapter or any rules or regulations
adopted pursuant hereto have been or are being violated, and to act upon said
complaints in the manner hereinafter provided.
      5.   To receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the
village treasurer.
      6.   To conduct hearings and to levy fines in accordance with 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-5.
      7.   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served in the manner hereinafter provided,
and to examine or cause to be examined the books and records of any such
applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for his information in
the performance of his duties, and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which
shall be effective in any part of this state. For the purpose of obtaining any
of the information desired by the commissioner under this subsection, he may
authorize his agent to act on his behalf.
      8.   To require fingerprints of any applicant for a local license or for
a renewal thereof other than an applicant who is an air carrier operating under
a certificate or a foreign air permit issued pursuant to the federal aviation
act of 1958. For purposes of obtaining fingerprints under this subsection, the
commissioner shall collect a fee and forward the fee to the appropriate
policing body who shall submit the fingerprints and the fee to the Illinois
department of state police. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6-2E of this code for salary.
2 2. 235 ILCS.
3 3. 235 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at retail in the
village any alcoholic liquor without a valid license as provided herein, or in
violation of the terms of such license, or in violation of this chapter. (Ord.
2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FINGERPRINTING FEES:
   A.   Contents Of Application: Applications for liquor licenses and annual
renewals thereof shall be made to the commissioner in writing on the form
provided, signed by the person to whom the license is to be issued, verified by
oath or affidavit and shall contain the following information and statements:
      1.   The name, age and address of the person to whom the license is to be
issued (see subsection A4b of this section).
      2.   The location of the premises or place of business which is to be
operated under such license.
      3.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state of Illinois or of the United States, or any ordinance of this village
in the conduct of his place of business.
      4.   Applications by a corporation also require:
         a.   The date of incorporation and the purpose for which it was
organized as stated on the articles of incorporation or any amendment thereto
shall be included with the application.
         b.   It must be executed by an officer of the corporation or other
person duly authorized by corporate resolution to execute the application, and
the information required in subsection A1 of this section and the statement
required in subsection A3 of this section must be with respect to each officer
and director and if a majority in interest of the stock of such corporation is
owned by one person or his nominees, the names and addresses of each such
person.
         c.   If applicant is a partnership, the information required in
subsection A1 of this section and the statement required in subsection A3 of
this section must be made on behalf of each partner entitled to share in the
profits of the business.
         d.   For any change in the information supplied in the application
required by this section (including changes in the officers, managers,
directors, shareholders owning more than 5 percent of the stock or partners),
the licensee shall file notice of this change and any required documents with
the village clerk not later than the effective date of the proposed change; any
such change shall be subject to the final approval of the commissioner as
provided in this chapter.
   B.   Fingerprinting Fee: Each applicant for a liquor license shall pay a fee
in the amount of one hundred ten dollars ($110.00) to cover the cost of all
fingerprinting required for processing the application and this fee shall be
paid at the time the application is submitted. This fee shall not apply to the
renewal of an existing license, unless a change in ownership or management
causes additional fingerprinting to be done. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-5: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
No license of any kind shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the village, except in case of
railroad or boat licenses, or a copartnership or corporation (see subsections I
and J of this section).
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States, except a
corporation (see subsection J of this section).
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, if the commissioner determines, after investigation, that such person has
not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after
considering matters set forth in such person's application and the commission's
investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the
applicant 1 .
   E.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose license issued under this chapter or the state of
Illinois liquor control commission has been revoked for cause.
   H.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   I.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership, would not be eligible to
receive a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the
village.
   J.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
village.
   K.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the "business corporation act of
1983" 2  or the limited liability company act to transact business in Illinois.
   L.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   M.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of the act or has forfeited his bond to appear in
court to answer charges for any such violation.
   N.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   O.   Any law enforcing public official, or anyone appointed to assist him,
including any President of the Village Board of Trustees, any member of the
Village Board of Trustees so long as they are performing the duties of the
Village's Liquor Control Commissioner or any President or member of a County
board so long as they are performing the duties of the County's Liquor Control
Commissioner; and no such official shall be interested directly in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a license
may be granted to such official in relation to premises which are not located
within the territory subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the
issuance of such license is approved by the State Liquor Control Commission.
   P.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   Q.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(10) of section 28-1 of, or as prescribed
by section 28-3 of, the Criminal Code of 1961, approved July 28, 1961 3 , as
heretofore or hereafter amended, or as prescribed by statute replaced by any of
the aforesaid statutory provisions.
   R.   A person or entity to whom a Federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the Federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the Raffles Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act 4 .
   S.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption
on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts set out in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21(a) 5
. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-2(a)(4).
2 2. 805 ILCS 5/1.01.
3 1. 720 ILCS 5/28-1, 5/28-3.
4 2. 235 ILCS 5/6-2(a)(17).
5 3. 235 ILCS 5/6-2(a)(18).
3-3-6: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS AND FEES:
The following license classifications are hereby established and no license or
renewal thereof shall be issued until the applicable fee from the following
schedule has been paid:
   A.   Class A, Full Liquor - Bar: This license is required for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquors for consumption only on the premises specified (other
than a restaurant), and sale for consumption off the premises is not permitted.
The fee for this license shall be two thousand four hundred twenty dollars
($2,420.00) per year.
   B.   Class B, Full Liquor - Restaurant: This license is required for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquors for consumption within a restaurant. The fee
for this license shall be one thousand eight hundred seventy dollars
($1,870.00) per year.
   C.   Class C:
      1.   Class C1, full liquor - liquor store: This license is required for
the retail sale of alcoholic liquors for consumption off the premises only. The
fee for this license shall be two thousand two hundred dollars ($2,200.00) per
year.
      2.   Class C2, full liquor - convenience store/market: This license is
required for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in original packages only, and
not for consumption on the premises where sold. The fee for this license shall
be one thousand nine hundred eighty dollars ($1,980.00) per year.
   D.   Class D, Beer And Wine Only - Restaurant: This license is required for
the retail sale of beer and wine only for consumption within a restaurant. The
fee for this license shall be one thousand eight hundred seventy dollars
($1,870.00) per year.
   E.   Class E:
      1.   Class E1, beer and wine only - convenience store/market: This
license is required for the retail sale of beer and wine only for consumption
off the premises. The fee for this license shall be one thousand eight hundred
seventy dollars ($1,870.00) per year.
      2.   Class E2, beer and wine only - specialty store: This license is
required for the retail sale of beer/wine for consumption off the premises,
with the conditional consumption on premises (tasting). The fee for this
license shall be one thousand eight hundred seventy dollars ($1,870.00) per
year.
   F.   Class F, Special Events:
      1.   Class F1, Special Event, Beer And Wine Only: A special event license
which is required for the retail sale of beer and wine for consumption on the
premises only, for a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per event, for picnics,
carnivals or other civic events. The consumption of beer and wine may be
allowed on public space if closed off and approved by a properly executed
"temporary use permit". The F1 class license is for entities organized under
the Illinois General Not for Profit Corporation Act of 1986, and in good
corporate standing with the Illinois Secretary of State; provided that all
sales of alcoholic liquor shall be in accordance with the provisions and
restrictions of this chapter. An event may be over a series of days, not to
exceed a total of eight (8) days, whether consecutive or nonconsecutive
associated with a single occasion, such as a religious observance period. The
maximum number of events in a given calendar year is four (4). The Liquor
Commissioner shall determine whether the multiple day occurrences qualify as a
single event.
      2.   Class F2, Special Event, Specialty Drinks Only: An F2 special event
license is required for the retail sale of "specialty drinks" (see definitions)
for consumption on the premises only, for a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
event, for picnics, carnivals or other civic events. The consumption of
specialty drinks may be allowed on public space if closed off and approved by a
properly executed "temporary use permit". The F2 class license is for entities
organized under the Illinois General Not for Profit Corporation Act of 1986,
and in good corporate standing with the Illinois Secretary of State; provided
that all sales of alcoholic liquor shall be in accordance with the provisions
and restrictions of this chapter. An event may be over a series of days, not to
exceed a total of eight (8) days, whether consecutive or nonconsecutive
associated with a single occasion, such as a religious observance period. The
maximum number of events in a given calendar year is four (4). The Liquor
Commissioner shall determine whether the multiple day occurrences qualify as a
single event.
   G.   Class G: Class G license is required for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor, for consumption on the licensed premises only, as an adjunct to a
principal beauty shop, barbershop or spa business. The fee for this license
shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) per year.
   H.   Class H: Class H license is required for the retail sale of wine, in
its original package, not for consumption on the premises, by a restaurant
holding a Class B license, under the following conditions: The retail sale must
only be to members of a wine club operated by the restaurant or the retail sale
must be made to a dining patron of the restaurant in conjunction with a meal
that has been served to the dining patron. Tasting or sampling of wine on the
premises shall be allowed only if conducted as part of a promotion or sales
device for the purpose of the retail sale of wine through wine club membership.
The fee for such license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for each year that the
license is issued in the name of such licensee.
   I.   Class "I": Class I license is required for the consumption of beer/
wine/alcoholic beverages on the premise of a property owned and operated by a
unit of local government. For purposes of this license classification, a unit
of local government shall be defined as the Village of Winfield, the Winfield
Park District, the Winfield Fire Protection District and the Winfield Public
Library District. Prior to the issuance of a license, the applicant shall
submit proof of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) insurance. The applicant
shall also comply with all applicable state liquor license requirements for
events held at their facility. In addition, the applicant shall provide at
least one (1) BASSET trained and certified individual on site during the
entirety of the event. The fee for this license shall be six hundred dollars
($600.00) per year.
   J.   Penalty: Failure to pay the license fee on or before the due date and
through the fifty ninth day of delinquency shall result in the imposition and
expectation of the payment of a ten percent (10%) penalty on the outstanding
balance and the original license fee. Failure to pay the license fee on or
after the sixtieth day of delinquency shall result in the imposition and
expectation of the payment of a twenty percent (20%) penalty on the outstanding
balance and the original license fee.
   K.   Enforcement: The imposition of the penalty does not preclude the
Village from taking other measures to enforce the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-07-22, 7-19-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-02-03, 2-2-2023)
3-3-7: NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED:
The maximum number of licenses that can be issued and in effect at any time in
the Village of Winfield in each classification is as follows:
Classification Number Of Licenses
Classification Number Of Licenses
   Class A  0
   Class B  7
   Class C1 3
   Class C2 3
   Class D  1
   Class E1 1
   Class E2 0
   Class F1 See note
   Class F2 See note
   Class H  0
   Class I  1
 
Note: The maximum number of F1 and F2 licenses that can be issued and in effect
at any time in the Village of Winfield shall be determined by the Liquor
Commissioner.
Upon any license being surrendered, not being renewed after a period of thirty
(30) days, forfeited, void or revoked for any reason, the number of available
licenses in that classification shall automatically and immediately be reduced
by one.
(Ord. 2019-03-07, 3-21-2019; amd. Ord. 2021-10-19, 10-7-2021; Ord. 2021-10-20,
10-21-2021; Ord. 2023-05-10, 5-18-2023; Ord. 2023-07-14, 7-20-2023; Ord. 2023-
10-18, 10-5-2023; Ord. 2023-10-19, 10-5-2023; Ord. 2024-06-09, 6-20-2024)
3-3-8: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant shall file with his
application a certificate by an insurance company authorized to do business in
the State, certifying that the applicant has in force and in effect insurance
sufficient to cover the limits of liability established by 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-21 and any other statutory requirement or requirements
under local ordinances. Such evidence shall be submitted yearly for license
renewal, and the insurance shall be kept in effect constantly during the
existence of the license. Each such policy of insurance shall contain a
provision requiring thirty (30) days' prior notice to the Commissioner before
it can be canceled by the insurance company, and that provision shall be
indicated on all certificates of insurance required herein. (Ord. 2009-12-40,
12-17-2009)
3-3-9: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each license shall terminate on April 30 following its issuance. The fee to be
paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which have
expired in the year prior to the issuance of the license. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-
17-2009)
3-3-10: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All such fees shall be paid to the Village. In the event the license applied
for is denied, the fee paid by the applicant shall be returned to the
applicant. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-11: RENEWAL OF LICENSES:
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided, he is
then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought are suitable for such purpose; and provided further, that the
renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested right
which shall in any case prevent the Village President and Board of Trustees
from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-12: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance, unless sooner revoked as provided in this chapter, and shall
not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such
decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license
but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of
such licensee. Except in the case of a nonbeverage user's license, a refund
shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for any period in which
the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such license in accordance
with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-13: BUILDING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Location Restrictions:
      1.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within one hundred feet (100') between the retail building and the
building of any church, school other than an institution of higher learning,
hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or
children or any military or naval station.
      2.   This prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church or school where
such church or school has been established within such one hundred feet ( 100')
since the issuance of the original license.
      3.   In the case of a church, the distance of one hundred feet (100')
shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship services
or educational programs and not to property boundaries.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the issuance of a license
to a church, school, or not for profit organization to sell at retail alcoholic
liquor if any such sales are limited to periods when groups are assembled on
the premises solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale
or consumption of alcoholic liquors, if such licenses are otherwise allowed in
this chapter.
   B.   Stores Selling School Supplies, Lunches, Etc.: No license shall be
issued to any person for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor at any
store or other place of business where the majority of customers are minors of
school age or where the principal business transacted consists of schoolbooks,
school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such minors.
   C.   Access From Licensed Premises To Dwelling Quarters: Except in the case
of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at retail upon any
premises which has any access which leads from such premises to any other
portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes
and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use by the public.
This provision shall not prevent any connection between such premises and such
other portion of the building or structure which is used only by the licensee,
his family and personal guests.
   D.   Condition Of Premises/Conduct of Licensed Businesses:
      1.   In the premises in which the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption upon the premises is licensed under Class A, full liquor - bar, no
screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the
windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside such premises
which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises
from the street, road or sidewalk at all times and no booth, screen, partition
or other obstruction, nor any arrangement of lights or lighting shall be
permitted in or about the interior of such premises which shall prevent a full
view of the entire interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk.
   2.   All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall
be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial
white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible.
   3.   The local liquor control commissioner is hereby authorized to enter,
and empowered to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter, at any time
upon any premises licensed hereunder, except for those portions of the premises
being used for residential purposes, to determine whether any of the provisions
of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, this Chapter or any rules or regulations
adopted by the local liquor control commissioner or the State Liquor Control
Commission have been or are being violated, and at such time to examine said
premises of said licensee in connection therewith.
   4.   Each licensee shall retain receipts for any and all liquor sales or
purchases for a minimum of thirty (30) days and shall make said receipts
available to the liquor control commissioner or an authorized law enforcement
officer immediately upon request.
   5.   Each licensee whose premises is equipped with a video surveillance
system shall maintain said video surveillance system in good working condition.
Any and all video surveillance recordings shall be retained for a minimum of
thirty (30) days and, upon request, shall be made immediately available to the
local liquor control commissioner or an authorized law enforcement officer.
   6.   In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be willfully obscured by the licensee, or by him
willfully suffered to be obscured, or in any manner obstructed, then such
license shall be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided.
   E.   Change Of Location: A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and license.
Such location may be changed only when and upon written authorization to make
such change shall be issued by the Commissioner. No change of location shall be
permitted unless the proposed new location complies with the provisions and
regulations of this chapter. A request for change of location shall be sent to
the Chief of Police, Village Manager (if there be one) and the Commissioner and
the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-12-29, 12-7-2017, amd. Ord. 2020-08-20, 8-6-
2020; Ord. 2023-11-20, 11-2-2023)
3-3-14: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Hours Of Operation: It shall be lawful to sell or offer for sale at
retail any alcoholic liquor only during the hours listed hereinbelow:
      1.   Class A license (for consumption on the premises - bar) during the
hours between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. of each day
except on Sunday then between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. until
two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
      2.   Class B license (for consumption on the premises - restaurant)
during the hours between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
of each day except on Sunday then between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
      3.   Class C and E licenses (for consumption off property) during the
hours between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. of each day
except on Sunday then between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. until two
o'clock (2:00) A.M.
      4.   Class D license (for consumption on the premises) during the hours
between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. of each day
except on Sunday then between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. until
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
      5.   Class F license, special events during the hours between nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday,
and between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. until twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight Friday and Saturday.
      6.   Class G license (for consumption on premises while receiving
services) during the hours between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. until ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. Sunday through Saturday. (Ord. 2018-07-22, 7-19-2018)
   B.   Sales On Credit: No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at
retail to any person on credit or on a passbook, or order on a store, or in
exchange for any goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services
rendered; and if any person shall extend credit for such purpose, the debt
thereby attempted to be created shall not be recoverable at law; provided, that
nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club from permitting
checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide
guests of members and charged to the account of such members or guests in
accordance with the bylaws of said club; and provided further, that nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any hotel from permitting checks
or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at said hotel
and charged to the accounts of said guests; and provided further, that nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent payment by credit card or other credit
device for the purchase of liquor in the original package or container for
consumption off the premises.
   C.   Display Of License: Every licensee shall cause his license or licenses
to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
   D.   Age Requirement: Only persons twenty one (21) years of age or older
shall be permitted to sell or "ring in" said alcoholic liquor.
   E.   License Class Specific Restrictions:
      1.   Class C And E Licenses:
         a.   No consumption on the premises shall be permitted.
      2.   Class C2 License:
         a.   Such license shall be authorized only at such locations where
prepackaged food is sold.
         b.   Such license shall be issued only for such locations which have
not more than one-third (1/3) of the total square feet of the establishment
allocated to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
      3.   Class E1 License:
         a.   Such license shall be authorized only at such locations where
prepackaged food is sold.
         b.   Such license shall be issued only for such locations which have
not more than one-third (1/3) of the total square feet of the establishment
allocated to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
      4.   Class E2 License:
         a.   This use is not a traditional "liquor store", but is instead a
high end specialty retailer selling beer, wine, gourmet food and related items
not typically found in general merchandise/grocery stores. This license
authorizes the sale of fine wine/beer related accessories such as glassware,
fine food related accessories, small gourmet food and drink products, and not
quick preparation foods, general supermarket foods, or household products. It
further authorizes the holder the ability to have tastings or samplings of
alcoholic beverages within their establishment.
         b.   No such license shall be granted to or retained by any
establishment whose primary business is that of a convenience store/market.
         c.   Beer and wine tasting seminars shall be permitted on the
premises, during regular business hours. Service of individual samples of beer
or wine in moderate and limited quantities (a maximum of 18 ounces per customer
per 24 hour period and no 1 sample shall be greater than 1 ounce of wine or 2
ounces of beer) for tastings for immediate consumption on the premises, either
with or without charge or in connection with a winetasting program designed to
educate consumers about wine, for which a fixed fee may be charged. The
sampling shall be attended and supervised by a full time employee and shall be
subject to such further regulation as deemed necessary by the local liquor
control commissioner.
         d.   At least twenty five percent (25%) of the retail space shall be
devoted to the sale of specialty foods or varieties of food products not
typically sold in area grocery stores.
         e.   No tobacco products or lottery tickets may be sold.
      5.   Class F1 And F2 Licenses:
         a.   The request for an F1 or F2 license must be reviewed by the chief
of police to establish the need for special police surveillance (number of
officers, hours, cost, etc.). One-half (1/2) of the estimated cost is due with
the license application in addition to the license fee. The balance of the
surveillance costs are due thirty (30) days following the event.
      6.   Class F2 License:
         a.   A menu of all those "specialty drinks" being offered must be
supplied with the application for license.
         b.   The commissioner retains the right to eliminate those drinks that
do not meet the general intent of "specialty drinks".
      7.   Class G License:
         a.   For consumption on the licensed business premises only, as an
adjunct to the principal business of a beauty shop, barbershop or spa.
         b.   The retail sale of alcoholic liquor shall be limited to one drink
per hour per customer or patron of the premises, and no such customer or patron
shall be served more than two (2) alcoholic beverages, a maximum of twelve (12)
ounces total for beer or wine or three (3) ounces total for spirits, during the
permitted hours of retail sale of alcoholic liquor during any one calendar day.
         c.   No live entertainment of any nature shall be permitted on the
specified premises.
         d.   No window or any other signage visible from the outside of the
business shall be permitted on the specified premises or surrounding property
that indicates that alcoholic liquor is available for retail sale at the
specified premises, provided, however, that the business identification signage
may contain the word "bar", and provided further that the word "bar" is only
used as part of the business name.
         e.   Only persons twenty one (21) years of age or older shall be
permitted to sell or “ring in” alcoholic beverages.
   F.   All licensees who sell or furnish alcoholic liquor to any person for
consumption on the premises shall require that all persons who sell or furnish
alcoholic liquor to any person for consumption on the premises shall be BASSET
trained and certified. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009, amd. Ord. 2020-08-20, 8-6-
2020; Ord. 2023-09-17, 9-21-2023)
3-3-15: HAPPY HOURS PROHIBITED:
   A.   All licensees shall maintain a schedule of the prices charged for all
drinks of alcoholic liquor to be served and consumed on the licensed premises
or in any room or part thereof. Whenever a hotel or multiuse establishment
which holds a valid license operates on its premises more than one
establishment at which drinks of alcoholic liquor are sold at retail, the hotel
or multiuse establishment shall maintain at each such establishment a separate
schedule of the prices charged for such drinks at that establishment.
   B.   No licensee or employee or agent of such licensee shall:
      1.   Serve two (2) or more drinks of alcoholic liquor at one time to one
person for consumption by that one person, except conducting product sampling
pursuant to section 6-31 or selling or delivering wine by the bottle or carafe;
      2.   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price,
except at private functions not open to the general public;
      3.   Sell, offer to sell or serve any drink of alcoholic liquor to any
person on any one date at a reduced price other than that charged other
purchasers of drinks on that day where such reduced price is a promotion to
encourage consumption of alcoholic liquor, except as authorized in subsection
C7 of this section;
      4.   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink, or the
size of a drink of alcoholic liquor, without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for the drink on that day;
      5.   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises; or
      6.   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed
premises, any of the practices prohibited under subsections B1 through B5 of
this section.
   C.   Nothing in subsection B of this section shall be construed to prohibit
a licensee from:
      1.   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
      2.   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package;
      3.   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      4.   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a contract between
a hotel or multiuse establishment and another group for the holding of any
function, meeting, convention or trade show;
      5.   Providing room service to persons renting rooms at a hotel;
      6.   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including, but not limited to,
buckets), carafes, or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold in
such manner, or selling bottles of spirits, and delivered to two (2) or more
persons at one time; or
      7.   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in whole
or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment not
regularly scheduled.
   D.   A violation of this act shall be grounds for suspension or revocation
of the license as provided by this chapter. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-16: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED; MINORS:
   A.   Prohibited Sales To Minors, Intoxicated Persons, Indigents;
Identification; Private Gatherings:
      1.   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent or employee of such licensee shall allow consumption on the licensed
premises by, or sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years, or to any intoxicated person or to any person
known by him or her to be under legal disability or in need of mental
treatment. No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of twenty one (21) years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony
or service. Whoever violates the provisions of this subsection A1 is guilty of
a class A misdemeanor.
      2.   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this subsection, any
licensee, or his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of
identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of twenty one (21)
years.
      3.   Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a
document issued by a federal, state, county or municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the federal
selective service act, or an identification card issued to a member of the
armed forces. Proof that the defendant-licensee, or his employee or agent,
demanded, was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any
transaction, forbidden by this subsection is competent evidence and may be
considered in any criminal prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
      4.   Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years any false or fraudulent written, printed or
photostatic evidence of the age and identity of such person or who sells, gives
or furnishes to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years evidence of
age and identification of any other person is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.
      5.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who presents or
offers to any licensee, his agent or employee, any written, printed or
photostatic evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent, or not
actually his own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to
purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure the serving of any
alcoholic beverage, or who has in his possession any false or fraudulent
written, printed or photostatic evidence of age and identity is guilty of a
class B misdemeanor.
      6.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who has any
alcoholic beverage in his possession on any street or highway or in any public
place or in any place open to the public is guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
This subsection does not apply to possession by a person under the age of
twenty one (21) years making a delivery of an alcoholic beverage in pursuance
of the order of his or her parent.
      7.   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this subsection shall, in addition to other penalties provided for in this act,
be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
      8.   Any person shall be guilty of a petty offense where he or she
knowingly permits a gathering at a residence which he or she occupies of two
(2) or more persons where any one or more of the persons is under eighteen (18)
years of age and the following factors also apply:
         a.   The person occupying the residence knows that any such person
under the age of eighteen (18) is in possession of or is consuming any
alcoholic beverage; and
         b.   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under
eighteen (18) is not otherwise permitted by this act; and
         c.   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under
the age of eighteen (18) leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition.
For the purpose of this subsection A8, where the residence has an owner and a
tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
      9.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall consume
alcoholic liquor within the village of Winfield; provided, the consumption by a
person under the age of twenty one (21) years of alcoholic liquor in the
performance of a religious service or ceremony or under the direct supervision
and approval of the parent(s) or guardian(s) of such underage person in the
privacy of the parent's or guardian's home is not prohibited. Any person
violating the provisions of this subsection A9 shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense.
   B.   Purchase Or Acceptance Of Liquor By Minors:
      1.   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic
liquor is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such
alcoholic liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his possession.
      2.   If a licensee or his agents or employees believes or has reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because
of the nonage of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale
or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
official duties.
      3.   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this subsection. The consumption of alcoholic
liquor by any person under twenty one (21) years of age is forbidden. Violation
of any provisions of age is forbidden.
Whoever violates any provisions of this subsection shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor.
      4.   The possession and dispensing, or consumption by a person under
twenty one (21) years of age of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a
religious service or ceremony, or the consumption by a person under twenty one
(21) years of age under the direct supervision and approval of the parents or
parent or those persons standing in loco parentis of such person under twenty
one (21) years of age in the privacy of a home is not prohibited by this
chapter.
   C.   Minors As Employees:
      1.   No person who is under the age of twenty one (21) years shall
perform service as a bartender or draw, mix or pour any alcoholic liquor within
any premises for which a retail liquor license has been issued, except as
provided in subsection C4 of this section.
      2.   No person who is under the age of eighteen (18) years shall serve
any alcoholic liquor as a waiter or waitress within any premises for which a
retail liquor license has been issued.
      3.   No person who is under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be
allowed to sell alcoholic liquor at any retail establishment licensed for the
sale of alcoholic liquor for off premises consumption.
      4.   Nothing contained in subsections C1, C2 and C3 of this section shall
be construed to prohibit persons of the age of eighteen (18) years or older
from pouring, mixing or adding nonalcoholic beverage to a prepoured or mixed
alcoholic liquor, provided such acts by a person of the age of eighteen (18)
years or older are performed as an incidental act to such person's employment
as a waiter or waitress whose primary function is limited to serving food and
beverage within premises for which a retail liquor license has been issued; and
provided further, that such acts do not constitute tending a bar. (Ord. 2009-
12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-17: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
The following kinds of conduct on premises in this village licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
   A.   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts.
   B.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the breasts,
buttocks, anus or genitals.
   C.   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva or genitals.
   D.   The permitting, by a licensee, of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to public view his or her entire breasts or
buttocks.
   E.   The permitting, by a licensee, of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to public view his or her genitals, vulva or
anus.
   F.   The displaying of moving pictures or photographic slide presentations
depicting acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy,
bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual act. (Ord. 2009-12-40,
12-17-2009)
3-3-17-1: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Except on premises that hold a valid outdoor restaurant seating license
pursuant to chapter 16 of this title it shall be unlawful for any person to
consume or offer for consumption any alcoholic liquor or to have in one's
possession or control any alcoholic liquor, unless carried in the original
sealed container, in any public place within the village of Winfield. For
purposes of this section, a "public place" shall be any public street, public
highway, public sidewalk, public parking area, any restaurant or other public
place for eating, or place for amusement. Such consumption or possession in a
public place shall, however, be lawful within premises licensed under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-02-03, 2-17-2011)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or manager of any restaurant, other
public place for eating, or place for amusement to suffer or permit either:
      1.   The consumption of any alcoholic liquor on the premises;
      2.   The possession or control of any alcoholic liquor on the premises
unless in the original sealed container. The foregoing prohibition shall not
apply to premises lawfully licensed under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-18: LIST OF LICENSES KEPT:
The village clerk shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all such
licenses issued and shall furnish the commissioner, treasurer and the chief of
police each with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new license or the
revocation of any old license, the village clerk shall give written notice of
such action to each of these officers within forty eight (48) hours of such
action. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-19: COMPLAINT OF VIOLATION; HEARING:
Any five (5) residents of Winfield shall have the right to file a complaint
with the commissioner stating that any licensee, subject to his jurisdiction,
has been or is violating the provisions of this chapter or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant hereto or of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes
(dramshops). Such complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the
commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The
complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to
have been violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the
commissioner is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation
and that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for such belief, he
shall set the matter for hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of
the time and place of such hearing and of the particular charge in the
complaint. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-20: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEALS:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation; Fine: The commissioner may suspend for any
period up to thirty (30) days or revoke any liquor license for any violation of
the provisions of this chapter or for any violation of any state law pertaining
to the sale of alcoholic liquor as well as for any violation of such other
ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be enacted or
for any violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the commissioner
as provided herein.
In addition to a suspension, the commissioner may also levy a fine on the
licensee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for a first violation within a twelve (12) month period,
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation within a
twelve (12) month period, and two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for
a third violation within a twelve (12) month period. Each day on which a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in fines under this section may be
imposed against any licensee during the period of his license. Proceeds from
such fines shall be paid into the general corporate fund of the municipal
treasury.
   B.   Hearings: Notice of hearings regarding such suspension, fine or
revocation shall be sent to the chief of police and the village board. No such
license shall be so revoked or suspended or a fine imposed except after a
public hearing by the commissioner, with three (3) days' written notice to the
licensee, affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. The
provisions of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-3 and related paragraphs
pertaining to the procedure for revocation, fines and suspension of a liquor
license shall be followed.
   C.   Fraud: Should any applicant for license make a false statement or
fraudulent statement in such application, the same shall be cause for
revocation of such license by the commissioner.
   D.   Appeals To State Commission: All appeals to the state liquor control
commission by a village liquor licensee of a decision, order or action by
commissioner or designee having the effect of fining a licensee or suspending
or revoking the village liquor license shall be limited to review of the
official record of the formal proceedings before the commissioner.
   E.   Conviction: Whenever any licensee shall have been convicted by any
court of a wilful violation of any of the provisions of the Illinois liquor
control act of 1934, he shall, in addition to the penalties for such offense,
incur a forfeiture of his license and all monies that have been paid therefor;
the commissioner shall thereupon revoke his license.
   F.   Granting Licenses After Revocation; Waiting Period; Discretion: When
any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted
to any person for the period of one year thereafter for the conduct of the
business of selling alcoholic liquor in the premises described in the revoked
license unless the revocation order has been vacated or unless the revocation
order was entered as to the licensee only.
Nothing in this subsection F shall prohibit the issuance of a license
authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a restaurant if:
      1.   The primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale of food
where the sale of liquor is incidental to the sale of food and the applicant is
a completely new owner of the restaurant.
      2.   The immediately prior owner or operator of the premises where the
restaurant is located operated the premises as a restaurant and held a valid
retail license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at the restaurant for
at least part of the twenty four (24) months before the change of ownership.
      3.   The restaurant is located one hundred feet (100') or more from a
school. (Ord. 2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-21: TAX DELINQUENCY:
No retailer's license shall be renewed if the Illinois department of revenue
has reported to the Illinois liquor control commission that such retailer is
delinquent in filing any required tax returns or paying any amounts owed to the
state until the applicant is issued a certificate by the Illinois department of
revenue stating that all delinquent returns or amounts owed have been paid by
the guaranteed remittance or the payment agreement to pay all amounts owed has
been accepted by the department. No retailer's license issued by the
commissioner shall be renewed unless the applicant provides documentation that
any tax owed to the village by the applicant has been satisfied by payment in
the form of a cashier's check, certified check, money order or cash. (Ord.
2009-12-40, 12-17-2009)
3-3-22: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2009-12-40,
12-17-2009)
3-3-23: SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM:
   A.   Establishment And Funding Of Grant Program
      1.   A grant is hereby established to promote public safety in the
Village through the installation of new or updated video surveillance systems
at licensed liquor establishments in the Village (the "Surveillance System
Assistance Grant"). Applications for the Surveillance System Assistance Grant
will be reviewed in the order in which they are received until the budgeted
funds have been expended.
      2.   The Village must approve the design of the new or updated video
surveillance system for the Licensee to be eligible to receive the Surveillance
System Assistance Grant. Approvals for the Surveillance System Assistance Grant
will be based on the following criteria: appropriate camera locations can
include entry/exit, seating areas, public hallways and cash register area.
      3.   Each successful applicant for the Surveillance System Assistance
Grant shall be reimbursed for fifty percent (50%) of the cost of installing a
new or updated video surveillance system at their licensed liquor
establishment, up to a maximum amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per
license (excluding Class F Special Events Licenses). Each Surveillance System
Assistance Grant shall be paid in the form of a fifty percent (50%) discount on
the successful applicant's annual liquor license renewal fee, until such time
as the applicant has received discounts totaling the amount awarded through the
Surveillance System Assistance Grant.
      4.   Work performed prior to approval of an application for the
Surveillance System Assistance Grant does not qualify for reimbursement.
Funding for the Surveillance System Assistance Grant shall be considered by the
Village President and Board of Trustees each budget year. The Surveillance
System Assistance Grant may be discontinued at any time by the Village
President and Board of Trustees.
   B.   Grant Process:
      1.   In order to qualify for the Surveillance System Assistance Grant. an
applicant shall complete and submit a formal Surveillance System Assistance
Grant application, which application shall be provided by the Village, along
with other documents as required by the Village.
      2.   Village staff shall review the application and provide written
notification to the applicant regarding whether the application has been
approved or denied.
      3.   If an application is granted, the applicant shall submit copies of
paid bills and canceled checks to the Village for reimbursement of approved
expenses.
      4.   The Village shall conduct an inspection of the licensed liquor
establishment to ensure that the work was performed as outlined in the
application.
      5.   Once the work has been performed as outlined in the application and
the Village has determined that the applicant has successfully completed the
requirements of the application, the Village shall begin reimbursing the
applicant as outlined in section A.3. above. (Ord. 2023-11-21, 11-2-2023)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS AND AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Coin Operated Amusement Devices
3-4-3: Game Room Operator's License Required; Issuance
3-4-4: Application For License
3-4-5: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-4-6: License Fee And Term
3-4-7: License Nontransferable
3-4-8: Conditions Of License
3-4-9: Building And Location Restrictions
3-4-10: Gambling Devices
3-4-11: Compliance With Provisions
3-4-12: Revocation Of License
3-4-13: Penalties
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any machine, game, table or other device designed, intended,
displayed or kept as an amusement game or test of skill and for the playing of
which a charge is made. Amusement device, when used herein, shall include, but
not be limited to, devices commonly known as pinball machines, shuffleboards,
bowling machines and coin operated games of skill but shall not include
regulation bowling alleys or pool or billiard tables. Amusement devices shall
include any machine which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or
disk, may be operated by the public generally for use as a game, entertainment
or amusement, whether or not registering a score. It shall include, but not be
limited to, such devices as marble machines, electronic games, skill ball,
mechanical grab machines and all games, operations or transactions similar
thereto under whatever name they may be indicated.
GAME ROOM: Any premises in which five (5) or more amusement devices are
operated for commercial purposes.
MECHANICAL MUSICAL DEVICE: Any machine intended, displayed or kept as
entertainment for the playing of music, for which a charge is made. "Mechanical
musical device", when used herein, shall include, but not be limited to,
devices known as a jukebox, record, tape, or disc player.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association engaged in
the business of operating a game room.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association. (Ord. 627,
8-26-1982; amd. 1994 Code)
3-4-2: COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES:
   A.   License Required: There shall be and is hereby established a license
requirement for the ownership and operation within the corporate limits of the
village of coin operated automatic amusement devices. No person shall place,
install, maintain or operate in any building or place within the village any
mechanical, coin controlled amusement devices, including coin controlled
mechanical musical devices for use by the public and for which a fee is
charged, without first having obtained a license for each place or location
where such automatic, coin controlled amusement device shall be installed,
maintained or operated.
   B.   Application For License: Any person desiring the license required in
and by this section shall make application for that purpose to the village
clerk, which application shall set forth the full name of the applicant and his
address, the location and character of the building or place where such devices
are to be located, maintained and operated, the number of each, the type of
each and the charge to be made to the customer for operating such device.
   C.   License Fees: The annual license fee for each device shall be as
follows:
 
Mechanical amusement device                        $50.00
Musical, coin operated mechanical amusement device 50.00
 
(Ord. 241, 2-19-1960; amd. 1994 Code)
3-4-3: GAME ROOM OPERATOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED; ISSUANCE:
No person shall engage in the business of being an operator of a game room
without having first obtained a game room operator's license. An application
for such a license shall be submitted with the applicable license fee 1  to the
village clerk and after appropriate investigation to verify compliance with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and all other applicable ordinances,
including the zoning ordinance 2 , of the village, and if all such provisions
are satisfied, then the license shall be issued; otherwise, it shall be refused
and the license fee refunded. (Ord. 627, 8-26-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 3-4-6A of this chapter.
2 2. See title 10 of this code.
3-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for such license shall contain the following information:
   A.   If applicant is a corporation:
      1.   Corporate name and address and the address of the premises for which
the license is applied.
      2.   Date and place of incorporation.
      3.   Corporate purposes as set forth in the articles of incorporation.
      4.   Names, dates of birth and addresses of all corporate officers and
directors.
      5.   Statement of principal kind of business in which corporation
engages.
      6.   Statement of whether business for which license is applied will be
conducted by a manager, and the name, address and authority of any such manager
or agent.
      7.   Statement whether any officer, manager, director or five percent
(5%) shareholder of the corporation has ever been convicted of a felony or has
ever forfeited an appearance bond on a felony charge.
      8.   Names, dates of birth and addresses of all persons, firms and
organizations owning five percent (5%) or more of the corporation's stock.
      9.   Names, dates of birth and addresses of all persons, firms and
organizations entitled by verbal or written agreement to a beneficial share of
corporate earnings.
      10.   A ten (10) year history of the corporation's addresses and the
residence addresses of the corporation's president.
      11.   A statement of the number of machines and a description of the
various machines intended to be located in the licensed premises.
      12.   A statement denoting legal ownership of the amusement devices which
will be located on the premises.
      13.   An affidavit attesting to the veracity of the statements contained
therein signed by the corporation's president and secretary and bearing the
corporate seal.
   B.   If applicant is an individual or partnership:
      1.   Name and address and date of birth of applicant(s), including all
partners, if a partnership.
      2.   Address of place of premises for which the license is applied.
      3.   Principal kind of business engaged in and the address for that
business.
      4.   Statement of whether business for which license is applied will be
conducted by a manager or agent, and the name and address and date of birth of
any such manager or agent.
      5.   Statement of other licenses of the Village held by the applicant.
      6.   Names, dates of birth and addresses of all persons, firms and
organizations entitled by verbal or written agreement to a beneficial share of
the earnings of the business.
      7.   A ten (10) year history of the applicant's business and residence
addresses.
      8.   A statement of the number of machines and a description of the
various machines intended to be located in the licensed premises.
      9.   A statement denoting legal ownership of the amusement devices which
will be located on the premises.
      10.   An affidavit attesting to the veracity of the statements contained
in the application signed by the applicants. (Ord. 627, 8-26-1982)
3-4-5: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No license required by this chapter shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the County of DuPage, Illinois.
   B.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
   C.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   D.   A person who does not own the premises for which the license is sought
or who does not have a lease for the full period for which the license is to be
issued.
   E.   Any law enforcing public official, or the Village President or any
member of the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 627, 8-26-1982)
3-4-6: LICENSE FEE AND TERM:
   A.   The annual fee for a game room operator's license shall be as provided
in section
13-1-3-1 of this Code. The effective dates of the license shall be May 1 to
April 30 of the following year. The license fee shall be prorated if
application is made subsequent to May 1.
   B.   The game room operator's license shall terminate on April 30 of each
calendar year and a new application and license fee must be submitted to
continue operation of a game room. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
3-4-7: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
The game room operator's license shall be nontransferable. (Ord. 627, 8-26-
1982)
3-4-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation for a game room shall not
exceed the following limitation: seven (7) days per week, twelve o'clock (12:
00) noon to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   B.   Manager On Premises: In a game room a duly authorized representative of
the operator, twenty one (21) years of age or older, shall be present on the
premises at all times in which the game room is open to the public and shall be
in such a position as to have a clear view of all of the amusement devices and
activity taking place on the premises. (Ord. 627, 8-26-1982)
3-4-9: BUILDING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Location Restrictions: No game room shall be located within one hundred
feet (100') of any property line of any church or school.
   B.   Floor Space: In a game room there shall be a maximum of one amusement
for each twenty five (25) square feet of floor area exclusive of aisles and
exit areas in the game room. (Ord. 627, 8-26-1982)
3-4-10: GAMBLING DEVICES:
   A.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall in any way be construed to
authorize, license or permit any gambling devices whatsoever or any mechanism
that has been judicially determined to be a gambling device or in any way
contrary to any law, or that may be contrary to any future laws of the State of
Illinois. If the Chief of Police shall have reason to believe any game room or
amusement device is used as a gambling device, such machine may be seized by
the police and impounded pending a judicial determination 1 . (Ord. 627, 8-26-
1982; amd. Ord. 2013-05-15, 5-16-2013)
   B.   Pursuant to section 27 of the Video Gaming Act, video gaming shall be
and is hereby prohibited within the corporate boundaries of the Village of
Winfield, Illinois. (Ord. 2013-05-15, 5-16-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/28-1.
3-4-11: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to relieve an operator of the
responsibility of obtaining an annual game room license and of paying annually
the tax required for the number of amusement devices for which the tax has been
paid. At no time shall the number of amusement devices displayed exceed the
number for which the tax required by this chapter has been paid. (Ord. 627, 8-
26-1982)
3-4-12: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be suspended or revoked by
action of the Corporate Authorities of the Village for violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or any laws of the State of Illinois relating to
amusement devices or for any false statement in the application for any license
required by this chapter. (Ord. 627, 8-26-1982)
3-4-13: PENALTIES:
In addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter, any person convicted
of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined as provided in
section
13-1-3 of this Code for each such offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
2006-12-60, 12-7-2006; amd. per correspondence dated 7-31-2018)
ARTICLE A. RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-4A-1: Definitions
3-4A-2: Application For License
3-4A-3: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
3-4A-4: License Fee
3-4A-5: Issuance Of License; Validity
3-4A-6: Conduct Of Raffles
3-4A-7: Records, Reports And Revenues
3-4A-8: Violations And Penalties
3-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following definitions apply:
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
KEY LOCATION: For a raffle, the location where the winning chances in the
raffle are determined.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
LOTTERY: Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed by
chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit incurring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
POKER RUN: A prize-awarding event organized by an organization required to be
licensed under this chapter in which participants travel to multiple
predetermined locations, including a key location, to play a randomized game
based on an element of chance. “Poker run” includes dice runs, marble runs, or
other events where the objective is to build the best hand or highest score by
obtaining an item or playing a randomized game at each location.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in paragraph 28-2(b) of the criminal code
of Illinois 1 , conducted by an organization licensed under this article, in
which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance.
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery; except, that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS' ORGANIZATION: An organization or association comprised of members
which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 674, 9-28-1984; amd. Ord. 2019-12-27, 12-5-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS.
3-4A-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An organization conducting a raffle for which the key location is the Village
of Winfield shall obtain a raffle license from the village. Poker runs are not
required to obtain a licence from the village, but must comply with any DuPage
County licensing requirements.
   A.   Before any such raffle, lottery or similar event, as defined under this
article, is held, an application must be made to the village clerk. The
application for license must specify the area or areas within the village in
which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time period during which
raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time of determination of winning
chances and the location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined.
   B.   The license application must contain a sworn statement attesting to the
not for profit character of the prospective license organization, signed by the
presiding officer and the secretary of their organization. (Ord. 674, 9-28-
1984; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2019-12-27, 12-5-2019)
3-4A-3: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable, labor,
fraternal, educational, veterans', or other bona fide not-for-profit
organizations that operate without profit to their members and which have been
in existence continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately before
making application for a license and which have had, during that entire five
(5) year period, a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects,
or to a non-profit fundraising organization that has been organized for the
sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or
group of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an
illness, disability, accident or disaster, or to any law enforcement agencies
and statewide associations that represent law enforcement officials or to a
political committee that complies with 230 ILCS 15/8.1 et seq. The Village
Board may waive the five (5)-year requirement under this section for a bona
fide religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational, or
veterans’ organization that applies for a raffle license if the organization is
a local organization that is affiliated with and chartered by a national or
State organization that meets the five (5)-year requirement.
The following are ineligible for any license under this article:
   A.   Any person whose felony conviction will impair the person’s ability to
engage in the licensed position;
   B.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or professional
gambling promoter;
   C.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   D.   An organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B or C of
this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which such
a person is active or employed;
   E.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B or C of
this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not;
   F.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B or C of
this section is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as
defined in this article. (Ord. 674, 9-28-1984; amd. Ord. 2019-12-27, 12-5-2019)
3-4A-4: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for the first raffle each organization applies for in each
calendar year under the terms of this article shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00). A raffle license may be issued to an organization for a specified
number of raffles to be conducted during a specific period not to exceed one
(1) year. No license fee will be required for each subsequent license that an
organization may apply for during that same calendar year. A license fee shall
not be required of the village for raffles conducted on property owned by the
village. (Ord. 674, 9-28-1984; amd. Ord. 2019-12-27, 12-5-2019)
3-4A-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; VALIDITY:
When all the requirements of this article have been met, the license shall be
issued by the village clerk. Each such license shall be valid for only one
raffle, except as provided in Section 3-4A-4 for a one (1)-year license. (Ord.
674, 9-28-1984; amd. Ord. 2019-12-27, 12-5-2019)
3-4A-6: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
   A.   Generally: Raffles shall be conducted only by organizations licensed
pursuant to, and in accordance with the requirements of this article.
   B.   Restrictions: The conducting of raffles is subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game;
      2.   No person except a bona fide director, officer, employee, or member
of the sponsoring organization may participate in the management or operation
of the raffle;
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle. Sponsoring organizations may
contract with third parties who, acting at the direction of and under the
supervision of the sponsoring organization, provide bona fide services to the
sponsoring organization in connection with the operation of a raffle and may
pay reasonable compensation for such services. Such services may include the
following: (a) advertising, marketing and promotion, (b) legal, (c) procurement
of goods, prizes, wares and merchandise for the purpose of operating the
raffle, (d) rent, if the premises upon which the raffle will be held is rented,
(e) accounting, auditing and bookkeeping, (f) website hosting, (g) mailing and
delivery, (h) banking and payment processing, and (i) other services relating
to the operation of the raffle;
      4.   Raffle chances may be sold throughout the State, including beyond
the borders of the village. Winning chances may be determined only at those
locations specified on the licenses;
      5.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in
the conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18)
years may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only
when accompanied by his parent or guardian;
      6.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes and merchandise awarded by
a licensee in a single raffle should not exceed two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000.00);
      7.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded in a single raffle
should not exceed two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00);
      8.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00);
      9.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days;
      10. A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle provided that the rent is not determined as a
percentage of receipts or profits from the raffle.
   C.   Raffles Manager: All management, operation and conduct of raffles shall
be under the supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the
organization. The manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of an amount
determined by the village in favor of the organization conditioned upon his
honesty in the performance of his duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that
notice shall be given in writing to the village not less than thirty (30) days
prior to its cancellation. The Village Board may waive this bond requirement by
including a waiver provision in the license issued to an organization under
this article provided that such waiver received the affirmative vote of the
requisite number of the members of the licensed organization, or, if the
licensed organization does not have members, members of the governing board of
the organization, to constitute an affirmative action of the licensed
organization. (Ord. 674, 9-28-1984; amd. Ord. 2019-12-27, 12-5-2019)
3-4A-7: RECORDS, REPORTS AND REVENUES:
   A.   Records Kept: Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances
shall keep the records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for
each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All
deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be
documented with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description
of the purchased item or service or other reason for the deductions, and the
recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee,
purpose, amount and date of payment.
   B.   Revenues To Be Kept Separate: Gross receipts from the operation of
raffles programs shall be segregated from other revenues of the organization,
including bingo gross receipts if bingo games are also conducted by the same
nonprofit organization pursuant to license therefor issued by the department of
revenue of the state of Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each
organization shall have separate records of its raffles. The person who
accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of
raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the
organization.
   C.   Reports Required: Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall
report promptly after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, or, if
the organization does not have members, to its governing board, and to the
village, its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the raffles, and
the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this section.
   D.   Preservation Of Records: Records required by this section shall be
preserved for three (3) years, and organizations shall make available their
records relating to operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable
times and places. (Ord. 674, 9-28-1984; amd. Ord. 2019-12-27, 12-5-2019)
3-4A-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
A violation of any provision of this article shall cause the license to be
revoked. If no license was obtained, any person convicted of violating any
provisions of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section 13-1-3 of this
code for each such offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition, a
violation may also be subject to the penalty set forth in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes. (Ord. 674, 9-28-1984; amd. Ord. 2019-12-27, 12-5-2019)
CHAPTER 5
SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Legislative Finding And Declaration
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: License Required
3-5-4: Application For License
3-5-5: Application; Warning Card Fees; Annual License Fee
3-5-6: Prohibited Sales, Delivery; Warning Card
3-5-7: Prohibitions And General Regulations
3-5-8: Certain Free Distributions Prohibited
3-5-9: Responsibility For Agents And Employees
3-5-10: Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Fines, Costs
3-5-11: License Issuance After Revocation
3-5-12: Violations; Penalty
3-5-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDING AND DECLARATION:
The village president and board of trustees expressly find and declare that:
   A.   1. Cigarette smoking is dangerous to human health;
      2.   There exists substantial scientific evidence that the use of tobacco
products causes cancer, heart disease and various other medical disorders;
      3.   The surgeon general of the United States has declared that nicotine
addiction from tobacco is similar to addiction to cocaine, and is the most
widespread example of drug dependence in this country;
      4.   The director of the National Institute On Drug Abuse concluded that
the majority of the three hundred twenty thousand (320,000) Americans who die
each year from cigarette smoking became addicted to nicotine as adolescents
before the age of legal consent;
      5.   The National Institute On Drug Abuse found that cigarette smoking
precedes and may be predictive of adolescent illicit drug use; and
      6.   The present legislative scheme of prohibiting sales of tobacco
products to persons under the age of eighteen (18) has proven ineffective in
preventing such persons from using tobacco products.
   B.   The enactment of this chapter directly pertains to and is in
furtherance of the health, welfare and safety of the residents of the village,
particularly those residents under eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 93-1-2, 1-
28-1993)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
COMPLIANCE CHECK: An inspection conducted with the intention of assessing
retail sales of tobacco products to minors and enforcing age of sales laws.
Compliance checks are conducted by having designated persons under the age of
eighteen (18) years of age attempt to purchase tobacco products from vendors.
LICENSE: A license issued by the village of Winfield for the retail sale of
tobacco products.
LICENSEE: A person required by this chapter to have a tobacco dealer's license.
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
POINT OF SALE: Any location where tobacco products can be obtained, including
vending machines, on the premises where the licensee conducts his business.
PUBLIC PLACE: An area to which the public is invited or in which the public is
permitted, including, but not limited to, any right of way, mall or shopping
center, park, playground, and any other property owned by the village, any
school district, or any park district.
SELF-SERVICE DISPLAYS: Open displays of tobacco products and point of sale
tobacco promotional products that the public has access to without intervention
of a store employee.
TOBACCO DEALER: A purveyor of tobacco products.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self- service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products.
WARNING CARD: The card described in section
3-5-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 93-1-2, 1-28-1993; amd. Ord. 2007-10-51, 10-4-
2007)
3-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, to give away,
deliver or to keep with the intention of selling at retail, giving away or
delivering tobacco products within the Village without having first obtained a
tobacco dealer's license therefor pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Such license shall be in addition to any other license required by this
chapter. (Ord. 93-1-2, 1-28-1993)
   C.   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and he and his designees
are hereby authorized and empowered to conduct random, unannounced inspections
and compliance checks of all places wherein such tobacco products are licensed
to be sold, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the laws of the State and
of the Village in relation to the same, are being complied with at such place.
   D.   A tobacco license is nontransferable, except a new license will be
issued to an existing tobacco dealer who changes location. (Ord. 2007-10-51,
10-4-2007)
3-5-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license hereunder shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of chapter 1 of
this title. (Ord. 93-1-2, 1-28-1993)
3-5-5: APPLICATION; WARNING CARD FEES; ANNUAL LICENSE FEE:
There shall be an annual license fee collected by the Village for a tobacco
dealer's license and for each warning card, whether a replacement card or an
additional card, issued after the first card or cards is issued in connection
with a license application. The required fees shall be as provided in section
13-1-3-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
3-5-6: PROHIBITED SALES, DELIVERY; WARNING CARD:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to sell,
offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products to any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Every licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place at each
point of sale, a printed warning card, issued by the Village and which shall
read substantially as follows:
WARNING TO THOSE UNDER THE AGE OF 18 YEARS: YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UNDER THE
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF WINFIELD IF YOU PURCHASE TOBACCO PRODUCTS OR
MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR OBTAINING TOBACCO
PRODUCTS.
(Ord. 93-1-2, 1-28-1993)
3-5-7: PROHIBITIONS AND GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Purchase By Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years to purchase tobacco products, or to
misrepresent their identity or age, or to use any false or altered
identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products.
   B.   Possession By Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years of age to possess any tobacco products. It
shall not be a violation of this section for a minor to possess any tobacco
product where:
      1.   Such use takes place under the direct supervision and approval of
the parent, parents, or legal guardian of the minor; and
      2.   Such use takes place in the privacy of a home or established place
of worship or tribal meeting place; provided, however, where such use takes
place in an established place of worship or tribal meeting place, such use
shall not be a violation only where use is in the performance of a religious
service or tribal ceremony and the religious group or tribe is legally
established and recognized by the state of Illinois.
   C.   Identification Requested: No licensee shall sell or permit to be sold
cigarettes or other tobacco products to an individual appearing younger than
the age of twenty seven (27) without requesting and examining photographic
identification establishing the purchaser's age as eighteen (18) years of age
or greater.
   D.   Sales By Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any licensee,
officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee
to engage, employ or permit any person less than eighteen (18) years of age to
sell tobacco products on any vendor's premises.
   E.   Devices Prohibited: Tobacco vending machines or any other devices for
the sale or distribution of tobacco products are prohibited.
   F.   Location Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell,
offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products within one hundred feet
(100') of any school, childcare facility or other building used for educational
or recreational purposes by persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
   G.   Self-Service Displays Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee, person, business, or tobacco retailer to sell, permit to be sold, or
offer for sale any tobacco product by means of self-service displays or any
other means other than vendor assisted sales. (Ord. 2007-10-51, 10-4-2007)
3-5-8: CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of selling
or otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products, or any
employee or agent of any such licensee or person, in the course of such
licensee's or person's business, to distribute, give away or deliver tobacco
products free of charge to any person on any right of way, park, playground or
other property owned by the village, any school district, any park district or
any public library. (Ord. 93-1-2, 1-28-1993)
3-5-9: RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee; and such licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such
act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally. (Ord. 93-
1-2, 1-28-1993)
3-5-10: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINES, COSTS:
   A.   Authority Of The Village President: The village president shall be
charged with the administration of this chapter. With the exception of the
actual levying of fines for violations of the sections of this chapter which
are designated to the village president or the suspension or revocation of a
license and in order to relieve the village president of some of the
administrative burden of enforcing this chapter, the village president may
delegate the administration of any sections of this chapter to the village
manager and/or the chief of police. The village president may suspend or revoke
any license issued under the provisions of this chapter, if the village
president determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
this chapter. In lieu of suspension or revocation of a license, the village
president may instead levy a fine on the licensee. The fine imposed shall not
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. Each day on which a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   B.   Hearing: The holder of the license who is to be fined, or license which
is to be suspended or revoked by the village president may request a public
hearing by the village president affording the licensee an opportunity to
appear and defend against the charges contained in the notice of violation.
Said public hearing must be requested in writing within ten (10) days of the
notice of violation that a fine will be levied or the license will be revoked
or suspended.
   C.   Order Of Suspension Or Revocation: Within ten (10) days after such
hearing, if the Village President determines that the license should be revoked
or suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason for such
determination in a written order and either the amount of the fine, the period
of suspension or that the license has been revoked and serve a copy of such
order within ten (10) days upon the licensee.
   D.   Payment Of Hearing Costs:
      1.   Any licensee determined by the Village President to have violated
any of the provisions of this chapter shall pay to the Village the costs of the
hearing before the Village President on such violation. The Village President
shall determine the costs incurred by the Village for said hearing, including,
but not limited to: court reporter fees, the costs of transcripts or records,
attorney fees, the cost of preparing the mailing of notices and orders and all
other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the Village or such lesser sum as the
Village President may allow.
      2.   The licensee shall pay said costs to the Village within thirty (30)
days of notification of the costs by the Village President. Failure to pay said
costs within thirty (30) days of notification is a violation of this chapter
and may be cause for license suspension or revocation, or the levy of a fine.
(Ord. 93-1-2, 1-28-1993)
3-5-11: LICENSE ISSUANCE AFTER REVOCATION:
When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license shall be
granted to said licensee for the period of six (6) months thereafter for the
conduct of the business of selling "tobacco products" as defined in section
3-5-2 of this chapter in the premises described in such revoked license. (Ord.
93-1-2, 1-28-1993)
3-5-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Tobacco control violations with respect to possession and/or purchase of
tobacco products by a person under eighteen (18) years of age are subject to
penalty as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code.
   A.   Violation of sections of this chapter with respect to operation of a
business which sells tobacco products shall be subject to a fine as provided in
section
13-1-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2007-10-51, 10-4-2007; amd. per correspondence dated
7-31-2018)
CHAPTER 6
SOLICITORS/CANVASSERS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Certificate Of Registration Required
3-6-3: Application For Certificate
3-6-4: Issuance Of Certificate; Restrictions
3-6-5: Policy On Soliciting/Canvassing
3-6-6: Notice Regulating Soliciting/Canvassing
3-6-7: Duty Of Solicitors/Canvassers
3-6-8: Uninvited Soliciting/Canvassing Prohibited
3-6-9: Time Limits On Solicitation
3-6-10: Revocation Of Certificate
3-6-11: Solicitation On Highways
3-6-12: Penalty
3-6-13: Appeal
3-6-14: Application Fees
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words as used herein shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed to them:
CANVASSING: Seeking to obtain support or opinions from persons with respect to
ideas, religious or political concerns and the like.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one
or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
SOLICITING: Any one or more of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description whatsoever, for any
kind of consideration whatsoever, or
   B.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project. (Ord. 2003-9-40, 9-4-2003)
3-6-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every person desiring to engage in "soliciting" as herein defined from persons
in residence within this municipality is hereby required to make written
application for a certificate of registration as hereinafter provided. (Ord.
2003-9-40, 9-4-2003)
3-6-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE:
Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the chief of police of this municipality and filed with such chief.
The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested on the
application, which shall include the following:
   A.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence
at such address; also business address if other than residence address,
including social security number;
   B.   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years, if other
than present address;
   C.   Age of applicant and marital status; and if married, the name of
spouse;
   D.   Physical description of the applicant;
   E.   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association whom
the applicant is employed by or represents, and the length of time of such
employment or representation;
   F.   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if other
than present employer;
   G.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of the
soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
   H.   Period of time which the certificate is applied for;
   I.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for
certificate under this chapter, if any;
   J.   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under this
chapter ever been revoked;
   K.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, or the ordinances of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting;
   L.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony
under the laws of the United States;
   M.   Such additional information as the chief of police may deem necessary
to process the application.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection
therewith shall be made under oath.
The chief of police shall cause to be kept in his office an accurate record of
every application received and acted upon together with all other information
and data pertaining thereto, and all certificates of registration issued under
the provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of application. Applications
for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed and every
certificate issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be identified with the
duplicate number of the application upon which it was issued. (Ord. 2003-9-40,
9-4-2003)
3-6-4: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The chief of police, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required, or that the issuance of the certificate of registration to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
Endorsement shall be made by the chief of police upon the application of the
denial of the application. When the applicant is found to be fully qualified,
the certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith. The certificate of
registration shall state the expiration date thereof, with a maximum approval
of sixty (60) days from the date of issuance. The registration shall be issued
at the Winfield police department and the registration shall be displayed
conspicuously on the outer garment of the person registered for soliciting at
all times when the person is engaged in soliciting in the village of Winfield.
   B.   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any of the following
applicants:
      1.   Persons who have been convicted of the commission of a felony under
the laws of the state of Illinois within ten (10) years of the date of
application,
      2.   Persons who have been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter,
      3.   Persons whose certificates of registration issued hereunder have
previously been revoked as herein provided,
      4.   Persons with felony convictions of any offense involving violence
against another person or threatened violence against another person under the
Illinois criminal code 1  or any like offense of another state or country,
within the past five (5) years, unless the applicant is employed by a
charitable organization whose primary purpose is the rehabilitation of criminal
offenders into society, in which case the five (5) years is reduced to three
(3) years,
      5.   Persons with felony convictions of any offense involving the
misapplication, misappropriation or misuse of funds of another person,
      6.   Persons convicted of the offenses of criminal sexual assault and/or
criminal sexual abuse as such offenses are defined in the Illinois criminal
code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1, or any like offense of another
state or country, or required to register as a sex offender in Illinois or any
other state or country.
   C.   Any person who is deemed to have provided false or misrepresented
information on the original application, or has altered or transferred any
soliciting document distributed by the village of Winfield shall be notified by
the chief of police, in writing, to the address listed on the application and
shall immediately have their soliciting registration voided. (Ord. 2012-08-29,
8-2-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
3-6-5: POLICY ON SOLICITING/CANVASSING:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the governing body of the village
that the occupant or occupants of the residences of the village shall make the
determination as to whether solicitors and canvassers shall be, or shall not
be, invited to their respective residences, as is provided in section
3-6-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-9-40, 9-4-2003)
3-6-6: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING/CANVASSING:
Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by the
regulations pertaining to soliciting or canvassing contained in this chapter
shall comply with the following directions:
Notice of determination by the occupant of giving invitation to registered
solicitors, or the refusal of invitation to solicitors and canvassers, to any
residence, shall be given in the manner following: A weatherproof card,
approximately three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in size, shall be exhibited
upon or near the main door to the residence, indicating the determination by
the occupant, containing the applicable words, as follows:
ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN WINFIELD
AND CANVASSERS INVITED
or
NO SOLICITORS OR CANVASSERS INVITED
The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the purpose
of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the chief of police to persons so
requesting, at the cost thereof. Such cards so exhibited shall constitute
sufficient notice to any solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the
residence of the information contained thereon. (Ord. 2003-9-40, 9-4-2003)
3-6-7: DUTY OF SOLICITORS/CANVASSERS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every solicitor or canvasser upon going onto
any premises in the municipality upon which a "residence" as herein defined is
located, to first examine the notice provided for in section
3-6-6 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states "Only Solicitors Registered In
Winfield And Canvassers Invited", then the solicitor not possessing a valid
certificate of registration as herein provided shall immediately and peacefully
depart from the premises, and if the notice states "No Solicitors Or Canvassers
Invited", then the solicitor or canvasser, whether registered or not, shall
immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   B.   Any solicitor or canvasser who has gained entrance to any residence,
whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises when requested to do so by the occupant. (Ord. 2003-9-40, 9-4-2003)
3-6-8: UNINVITED SOLICITING/CANVASSING PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof in defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence in
accordance with the provisions of section
3-6-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-9-40, 9-4-2003)
3-6-9: TIME LIMITS ON SOLICITATION:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence thereon, or rap or
knock upon any door, or create any sound in any manner calculated to attract
the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an
audience with the occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting" as herein defined
prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and after sunset of any day Monday through
Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday. (Ord.
2016-03-04, 3-3-2016)
3-6-10: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by the chief
of police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, or has made a false material statement in
the application, or is otherwise disqualified for the issuance of a certificate
of registration under the terms of this chapter. Immediately upon such
revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the chief of police to the
holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed to his
or her residence address set forth in the application. Immediately upon the
giving of such notice, the certificate of registration shall become null and
void. (Ord. 2003-9-40, 9-4-2003)
3-6-11: SOLICITATION ON HIGHWAYS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings herein ascribed:
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: An organization:
      1.   Registered with the attorney general as a charitable organization as
provided by "an act to regulate solicitation and collection of funds for
charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof, and making an
appropriation therefor", approved July 26, 1963, as amended;
      2.   Engaged in a statewide fundraising activity; and
      3.   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
CHARITABLE SOLICITATION: Seeking to obtain contributions or donations of money,
or any other thing of value, for the use or benefit of any benevolent,
charitable, philanthropic, patriotic, or eleemosynary association,
organization, or not for profit corporation.
PUBLIC STREET: Any public thoroughfare, roadway, street or highway within the
village of Winfield.
   B.   Charitable Solicitation Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to go upon any public street in the village for the
purposes of soliciting from motorists or others using the public street;
provided, however, charitable solicitation may be permitted on public streets
in accordance with the provisions of this section when a permit therefor has
been issued.
   C.   Charitable Solicitation Permits: Each permit shall be valid only for
one period of three (3) consecutive days during the course of a calendar year.
The permit shall only be valid during daylight hours on the dates specified and
for the public street locations identified in the permit. No charitable
organization shall be issued more than two (2) charitable solicitation permits
in any calendar year.
   D.   Locations For Charitable Solicitation: Charitable solicitations are
permitted only at intersections approved by the chief of police based on safety
and traffic considerations.
   E.   Application For Charitable Solicitation Permit:
      1.   Any eligible organization seeking to conduct charitable solicitation
on public streets shall file an application for a permit with the village
administrator in the same calendar year as, and not less than seven (7) days
before the last village board meeting prior to the date that the solicitation
is proposed to occur. All applications shall be approved by the village board.
      2.   The application shall contain the following information, which must
be updated by the applicant as circumstances warrant:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the person signing the
application.
         b.   The name, address and telephone number of the authorized and
responsible leaders of the organization.
         c.   The date(s) of the proposed charitable solicitation.
         d.   The public streets on which the charitable solicitation will
occur.
         e.   The approximate number of people who will participate in the
charitable solicitation.
      3.   All applications for a charitable solicitation permit shall be
processed on a first in time basis. Any conflict between or among two (2) or
more applications filed on the same day shall be resolved by a lottery to be
conducted by the village administrator. Applications may not be filed more than
three hundred sixty four (364) days before the solicitation date.
   F.   Conditions For Charitable Solicitation: Any person engaged in the act
of charitable solicitation shall be sixteen (16) years of age or more and shall
be wearing a high visibility vest. Solicitors shall not interfere with the flow
of traffic. The Police Department may order any solicitor interfering with
traffic to discontinue charitable soliciting. (Ord. 2014-10-31, 10-16-2014)
3-6-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code for each offense. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
3-6-13: APPEAL:
   A.   Any applicant or registered solicitor who receives a notice of denial,
revocation, or suspension may file an appeal with the Village President and
Board of Trustees as provided herein. Such appeal shall be filed with the
Village Manager in writing no later than ten (10) business days following
receipt of the notice, and shall include a response to the Chief of Police's
notice. Such response shall include a brief statement addressing the
substantive deficiencies cited in the Chief of Police's notice and shall set
forth the basis for why the permit shall not be denied, revoked, or suspended.
If an appeal is filed of an order of the Chief of Police suspending or revoking
a permit, such suspension or revocation occurred shall be stayed pending final
order of the Village President and Board of Trustees, as provided in this
section.
   B.   Upon filing an appeal by the applicant or registered solicitor, the
Board of Trustees shall convene at a special or regular meeting, with no less
than fifteen (15) days' written notice to the individual, a quorum being
present, and shall hear the appeal and shall accept such evidence and hear such
testimony from involved Village staff, the applicant or registered solicitor,
and such interested parties as may have relevant information to offer regarding
the case to offer the Board. The Village Board of Trustees, following the
hearing, shall make a finding based upon the testimony and evidence submitted
and if the Board, upon majority vote, determines that the violation(s) or
reasons for denial, suspension, or revocation occurred shall deny such
applicant or suspend or revoke the existing permit, effective immediately. A
copy of such order shall be served upon the applicant or registered solicitor
at the address identified on the latest application on file with the Village.
   C.   The decision of the Board of Trustees as provided in subsection B of
this section shall be the final administrative action of the Village of
Winfield with respect to permit or application, and shall be subject to the
immediate appeal by the registered solicitor or applicant to the Circuit Court.
Such appeal to the Circuit Court shall be filed no later than thirty five (35)
days following receipt of the Board of Trustee's findings and order. Failure to
file such an appeal as provided herein shall render the Board of Trustee's
decision final. (Ord. 2003-9-40, 9-4-2003)
3-6-14: APPLICATION FEES:
   A.   The fee for any peddler's, solicitor's or canvasser's license hereunder
shall be as provided in section
13-1-3-1 of this Code. No fee shall be charged for any charitable organization.
(Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
      1.   This nonrefundable fee shall be collected at the time of
application.
   B.   Charitable organizations include any organization subject to 501(c)(3),
a not for profit organization.
      1.   List Of Organizations Maintained: The Winfield Police Records
Division shall maintain a list of charitable or service organizations for which
charitable solicitations shall be permitted without further registration.
      2.   Liability Of Organization: The charitable or service organization
shall be liable for any injuries to any agent, person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent. (Ord. 2012-08-29, 8-2-2012)
CHAPTER 7
GARAGE SALES 1
SECTION:
3-7-1: Permit Required
3-7-2: Terms And Conditions Of Permit
3-7-3: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-60-1.
3-7-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to conduct or to permit to be conducted from
premises owned or leased by that person any house sale, attic sale, basement,
yard or garage sale on any property in a district zoned Residential in the
Village without a permit as provided herein. (Ord. 705, 1-23-1986)
3-7-2: TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
The Village Clerk is herein authorized to issue a special permit, without fee,
to any person applying for permission to conduct a house sale, attic sale,
basement, yard or garage sale from any residence premises in this Village, upon
the following terms and conditions:
   A.   The applicant/permittee must be an owner or tenant of the premises
where such sale is to be held.
   B.   The sale will involve only personal property items owned by the
applicant/permittee or members of his household.
   C.   No more than one similar sale had been conducted by the same applicant
or from the same premises during the preceding twelve (12) month period.
   D.   No sale items shall be located and no sales activities shall be
conducted on any public sidewalk, easement or right- of-way and all parking
regulations shall be observed.
   E.   All signs advertising such sale shall be located in the front yard area
of the premises, shall comply with subsection 10-2-16-10S of this Code and no
signs announcing the sale or providing information regarding the location of
the sale shall be located on any public property, including easements and
rights-of-way.
   F.   The sale shall be limited to a consecutive period of two (2) days and
shall be conducted during the period from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. until six
o'clock (6:00) P.M.
   G.   The sale will be conducted without the use of outdoor loudspeakers or
other amplification equipment.
   H.   The sale shall be conducted in accordance with all other laws and
ordinances in effect in the Village.
Such permit shall be valid only for a particular sale and premises designated
thereon, shall be posted in the front yard area so as to be easily seen by the
police, and shall be nontransferable. No such permit shall be issued and no
such person or premises shall be eligible for such permit to conduct a sale of
personal property items more than twice during any twelve (12) month period.
(Ord. 705, 1-23-1986)
3-7-3: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter or any other
ordinance provision of this Village shall subject himself to the revocation of
his permit provided for in this chapter by the President and Board of Trustees
of the Village. (Ord. 705, 1-23-1986; amd. 1994 Code)
   B.   In addition, any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to the penalty provisions of sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 8
FAIR HOUSING PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES 1
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Discrimination In Real Estate Transactions Prohibited
3-8-3: Complaint Procedures
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-11.1-1 et seq.
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meaning respectively assigned to them:
FAMILIAL STATUS: One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18
years) being domiciled with:
   A.   A parent or other person having legal custody of such individual or
individuals, or
   B.   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody, with
the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded by this chapter against discrimination on the basis of
familial status apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of
eighteen (18) years.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS: Includes any improved or unimproved real property, or
part thereof, which is used or occupied, or is intended, arranged or designed
to be used or occupied, as the home or residence of one or more individuals.
LEASE: Includes sublease, assignment, and rent (or rental) and includes any
contract to do any of the foregoing.
LENDING INSTITUTION: Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan association,
other person in the business of lending money or guaranteeing loans, any person
in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans or guarantees as
agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying loans or instruments
for the payment of money which are secured by title to or a security interest
in real property, but shall not include any religious institution or
organization nor any charitable or educational organization operated,
supervised or controlled by a religious institution or organization.
NATIONAL ORIGIN: Includes national origin and ancestors.
OWNER: Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any beneficial
interest in, any real property or who holds legal or equitable title to shares
of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any real estate cooperative which owns
any real property.
PURCHASE: Any contract to purchase.
REAL ESTATE BROKER OR SALESMAN: A person, whether licensed or not, who, for or
with the expectation of receiving a consideration, lists, sells, purchases,
exchanges, rents, or leases real property, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate any of these activities, or who holds himself or herself out as
engaged in these.
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: The sale, exchange, rental or lease of real property
and also includes the brokering or appraising of residential real property and
the making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial assistance:
   A.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling; or
   B.   Secured by residential real estate.
REAL PROPERTY: Buildings, structures, real estate, lands, tenements,
leaseholds, interests in real estate cooperatives, condominiums, and
hereditaments, corporeal and incorporeal, or any interest therein.
SALE: Any contract to sell, exchange or convey, transfer or assign legal or
equitable title to or beneficial interest in real property.
SOLICITATION: Any conduct designed or intended to induce the owner of any real
property to sell, rent, exchange, convey, transfer or list for sale or rental
such real property. (Ord. 94-4-3, 4-28-1994)
3-8-2: DISCRIMINATION IN REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No owner, lessee, or sublessee of real property, real estate broker or
salesman, lender, financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any of the
foregoing, shall discriminate against any person because of that person's race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, physical
or mental handicap, familial status, or unfavorable discharge from military
service with respect to any real estate transaction.
   B.   Any act of discrimination in a real estate transaction shall be
considered an unfair housing practice, including, but not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Refusal to engage in a real estate transaction with a person or
discriminate in making available such a transaction.
      2.   Altering the terms, conditions or privileges of a real estate
transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection
therewith.
      3.   Refusal to receive or failure to transmit a bona fide offer to
engage in a real estate transaction from a person.
      4.   Refusal to negotiate for a real estate transaction with a person.
      5.   Representing to a person that real property is not available for
inspection, sale, rental, or lease when in fact it is so available, or failure
to bring a property listing to his or her attention, or refusal to permit him
or her to inspect real property.
      6.   Printing, circulating, posting, mailing, publishing or causing to be
published a written or oral statement, advertisement or sign, or using a form
of application for a real estate transaction, or making a record in inquiry in
connection with a prospective real estate transaction, which expresses any
limitation founded upon, or indicating, directly or indirectly an intent to
engage in unlawful discrimination.
      7.   Offering, soliciting, accepting, using or retaining a listing of
real property with knowledge that unlawful discrimination or discrimination on
the basis of familial status in a real estate transaction is intended.
      8.   Soliciting for sale, leasing, listing or purchasing any residential
real estate within the village on the grounds of loss of value due to the
present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property involved of any
person or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin,
ancestry, age, sex, marital status, familial status, or handicap.
      9.   Distributing or causing to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of residential real estate in this
village to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective changes in the race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry,
age, sex, marital status, familial status or handicap of residents in the
vicinity of the property involved.
      10.   Intentionally creating alarm, among residents of any community, by
transmitting communications in any manner, including a telephone call whether
or not conversation thereby ensues, with a design to induce any owner of
residential real estate in this village to sell or lease his or her property
because of any present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property
involved of any person or persons of any particular race, color, religion,
national origin, ancestry, age, sex, marital status, familial status or
handicap.
      11.   Discriminating or participating in discrimination in connection
with borrowing or lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages or
otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the purchase, acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repairs or maintenance of any real property in
the village.
For the purpose of this subsection, "discrimination in lending" shall include:
         a.   Refusal to make loans; or
         b.   Differentiation in the type of loans, including interest rates,
charges to buyer or seller, duration and amount of loan; or
         c.   Influencing appraisals in connection with loans; or
         d.   Delaying processing loan applications. (Ord. 94-4-3, 4-28-1994)
3-8-3: COMPLAINT PROCEDURES:
   A.   The village shall act as a local source for assistance and information
for persons who have complaints related to unfair housing practices.
   B.   The village shall provide assistance and information to any such
person, which shall include, but is not limited to:
      1.   The rights and remedies available to a person who has been
discriminated against by virtue of an unfair housing practice;
      2.   The types of discrimination which are considered to be unfair
housing practices;
      3.   The names, addresses and phone numbers of county, state and federal
agencies where such person may file formal complaints; and
      4.   Such other relevant information or assistance as the village may
have available to assist such person.
   C.   The village manager shall be responsible for coordinating and directing
the village's fair housing procedures. (Ord. 94-4-3, 4-28-1994)
CHAPTER 9
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Tax Imposed
3-9-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-9-4: Returns To Department
3-9-5: Resellers
3-9-6: Repealer
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the
village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the village and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money whether paid in
money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this chapter, 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, 4) 911 surcharges, or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of the
village;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that the
charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or between
wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the corporations
and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering such service;
   G.   "Bad debts" means any portion of a debt that is related to a sale at
retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or excludable that
has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under applicable federal
income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to be bad is
subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that portion
during the reporting period in which the payment is made;
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail as
defined in this section. The department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any retailer having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary, an office,
distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse or
other place of business, or any agent or other representative operating within
this state under the authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective
of whether such place of business or agent or other representative is located
here permanently or temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is
licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in the village and who incurs a tax liability as authorized
by this chapter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, "telecommunications" includes, without limitation, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone
service, private line services, channel services, telegraph services,
teletypewriter, computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications
service, specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or
any other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this act. For purposes of this section,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act. (Ord. 2002-9-42, 9-19-2002, eff. 1-
1-2003)
3-9-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent (6%)
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent (6%)
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or privilege that is
subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon proof that the
taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local
tax in this state.
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the village.
(Ord. 2002-9-42, 9-19-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
3-9-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 2002-9-42, 9-19-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
3-9-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed under this chapter on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the department pursuant to the Illinois simplified
municipal telecommunications tax act (public act 92-526, section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement this
act. (Ord. 2002-9-42, 9-19-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
3-9-5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax
free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 2002-9-42, 9-19-2002, eff.
1-1-2003)
3-9-6: REPEALER:
If public act 92-0526, entitled the simplified municipal telecommunications tax
act, is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, or if the provisions
adopted by this chapter are repealed or become ineffective for any reason, then
ordinance 93-11-2, passed November 11, 1993, and ordinance 98-4-15, passed
April 16, 1998, shall be deemed in full force and effect as of the date public
act 92-0526 or this chapter is repealed or becomes ineffective. (Ord. 2002-9-
42, 9-19-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
CHAPTER 10
TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: License Required
3-10-3: Application; Fee
3-10-4: Duration Of License; Renewal
3-10-5: Premises
3-10-6: Operating Requirements
3-10-7: Inspections
3-10-8: Revocation And Suspension
3-10-9: Transfer Of License Prohibited
3-10-10: Display Of License Required
3-10-11: Exemptions
3-10-12: Requirement For Authorized Physician For Body Piercing
3-10-13: Tattooing Of Minors
3-10-14: Penalty
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the words and terms defined below shall have the
following meanings:
BODY PIERCING: Any procedure whereby a part or parts of the human body are
pierced by a sharp instrument in order to allow insertion of a piece or pieces
of jewelry, a ring(s) or other ornamental device(s) through the orifice(s) thus
created.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, company, corporation or association that owns
or operates an establishment where tattooing is performed and any individual
who performs or practices the art of tattooing other human beings.
TATTOO, TATTOOED, TATTOOING: Any method of placing designs, letters, scrolls,
figures, symbols or any other marks upon or under the skin by the aid of
needles or other instruments designed to touch or puncture the skin. (Ord. 98-
4-12, 4-2-1998)
3-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain and operate a tattoo
establishment, with or without body piercing, without first having obtained a
license as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 98-4-12, 4-2-1998)
3-10-3: APPLICATION; FEE:
Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate or conduct a tattoo
establishment shall file an application upon a form provided by the Village
Clerk and pay a nonrefundable filing fee as provided by section
13-1-3-1 of this Code. The Village Clerk shall, within fifteen (15) days
thereafter, refer copies of such application and all additional information to
the Police Department, Building Department and Village President. The Village
departments shall, within forty five (45) days, inspect the premises proposed
to be operated as a tattoo establishment, and make recommendations to the Clerk
concerning compliance with the Codes of the Village. Upon receipt of the
recommendations of the respective Village departments, the Clerk shall notify
the applicant as to whether his application has been granted, denied or held
for further investigation. The period of such additional investigation shall
not exceed an additional thirty (30) days. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
3-10-4: DURATION OF LICENSE; RENEWAL:
A license as provided for herein shall expire and shall be renewable as set
forth within section
3-1-9 of this title. (Ord. 98-4-12, 4-2-1998)
3-10-5: PREMISES:
No tattoo establishment shall receive a license or be operated, established or
maintained unless the establishment shall comply with each of the following
minimum regulations:
   A.   The establishment shall have a certificate of compliance with or
inspection by the DuPage County Health Department, if available.
   B.   The room in which tattooing is done shall have an enclosed area of not
less than five hundred (500) square feet. The walls, floors and ceiling shall
have an impervious, smooth and washable surface.
   C.   Toilet facilities shall be provided within the establishment. When five
(5) or more employees or patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the
same time, separate toilet facilities shall be provided. Lavatories shall be
provided with both hot and cold running water and shall be installed in the
toilet room. Lavatories shall be provided with soap and a dispenser with
sanitary towels.
   D.   All tables and other equipment shall be constructed of easily cleanable
material, shall be painted or finished in a light color, with a smooth washable
finish, and shall be separated from waiting customers or observers by a solid
wall or door totally eliminating any view into the tattooing room.
   E.   Closed cabinets shall be provided for use in the storage of clean
linens, towels, needles, and other materials and instruments used in tattooing.
All used linens, towels, equipment, instruments, and other materials shall be
kept in properly covered containers or cabinets which shall be kept separate
from the clean storage areas.
A steam sterilizer shall be provided to properly sterilize all needles and
instruments before use on any customer, person or patron. Such needles and
instruments required to be sterilized shall be so used, handled and temporarily
placed during their use so that they will not be contaminated.
   F.   The entire premises and equipment shall be maintained in a clean,
sanitary condition and in good repair.
   G.   No tattoo establishment shall be open to the public for business
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   H.   The main entrance door of any tattoo establishment shall be visible
from a public street and shall remain unlocked during business hours.
   I.   The business shall also comply with all of the terms and conditions set
forth within chapter 1 of this title with respect to business licenses. (Ord.
98-4-12, 4-2-1998)
3-10-6: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The operator shall wash his hands thoroughly with antiseptic soap and
water before starting any tattoo; the hands shall be dried with individual,
single use towels.
   B.   The area on the patron to be tattooed shall first be thoroughly washed
with a sterile, single use sponge with warm water containing an antiseptic
liquid soap. The area should be shaved with a safety razor, using single
service blades for each customer or patron, followed by a solution of seventy
percent (70%) alcohol to be applied to the area before tattooing is begun.
   C.   Only petroleum jelly in collapsible metal or plastic tubes shall be
used on the area to be tattooed, and it shall be applied with sterile gauze.
   D.   Single service or individual containers of dye or ink shall be used for
each patron, and the container therefor shall be discarded immediately after
completing work on each patron. Any dye in which the needles are dipped shall
not be used on another person. All needles, pigments, dyes, colors and any
other material used in tattooing and all bandages and surgical dressings used
in connection with tattooing shall be sterile and free from bacteria, virus
particles and noxious agents and substances. After completing work on any
person, the tattooed area shall be washed with sterile gauze and seventy
percent (70%) alcohol solution and allowed to dry. A sterile gauze dressing
shall be fastened to the tattooed area.
   E.   Operators shall at all times while in the performance of their services
wear uniforms or garments which cover the torso, and said garments shall be
kept clean and in a sanitary condition.
   F.   No person, while on the premises of any tattoo establishment, shall
possess, sell, dispense, provide, give, keep or maintain any alcoholic
beverage.
   G.   No intoxicated person shall be tattooed by an operator on the licensed
premises.
   H.   Operators shall at all times comply with the regulations of the
department of labor's occupational safety and health administration (29 CFR
section 1910.1030), as presently existing or hereafter amended, with respect to
occupational exposure to blood, bloodborne pathogens or other potentially
infectious materials, which regulations are incorporated by reference herein.
   I.   Tattooing may be performed within such licensed tattoo establishment
but shall be done only by a physician or osteopath or in the physical presence
and under the direct supervision of a physician or osteopath authorized to
practice medicine or osteopathic medicine in the State as set forth in the
Illinois Medical Practice Act of 1987 1  or any amendment thereof. (Ord. 98-4-
12, 4-2-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 60/1 et seq.
3-10-7: INSPECTIONS:
Any Village department or agency may make an inspection of each establishment
granted a license under the provisions of this chapter for the purposes of
determining compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 98-4-12, 4-2-
1998)
3-10-8: REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION:
It shall be cause for revocation or suspension that a licensee has violated the
provisions of this chapter or any code or ordinance of the Village relative to
operation of the business or use of the premises, has made a false statement on
any application for license under this chapter or, in the event that the
licensee shall refuse to permit any authorized police officer or authorized
member of the Police Department or Building Department of the Village to
inspect the premises or the operations thereof at reasonable times. (Ord. 98-4-
12, 4-2-1998)
3-10-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No license for the operation of a tattoo establishment shall be transferable.
(Ord. 98-4-12, 4-2-1998)
3-10-10: DISPLAY OF LICENSE REQUIRED:
Each licensee shall display a valid current license in a conspicuous place
within the licensed establishment so that the same may be readily seen by
persons entering the establishment. (Ord. 98-4-12, 4-2-1998)
3-10-11: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to licensed medical doctors or
doctors of osteopathic medicine who perform body piercing or tattoo individuals
while in the course of their medical practice. (Ord. 98-4-12, 4-2-1998)
3-10-12: REQUIREMENT FOR AUTHORIZED PHYSICIAN FOR BODY PIERCING:
Body piercing may be performed within such licensed tattoo establishment but
shall be done only by a physician or osteopath or in the physical presence and
under the direct supervision of a physician or osteopath authorized to practice
medicine or osteopathic medicine in the State as set forth in the Illinois
Medical Practice Act of 1987 1 , or any amendment thereof. The piercing of ears
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section. (Ord. 98-4-12, 4-2-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 60/1 et seq.
3-10-13: TATTOOING OF MINORS:
In accordance with 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-10, no person under the
age of twenty one (21) may be tattooed except by a person authorized to
practice medicine or osteopathic medicine as hereinabove set forth. (Ord. 98-4-
12, 4-2-1998)
3-10-14: PENALTY:
In addition to license suspension or revocation as hereinabove provided, any
person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code, and a separate offense shall be determined to have been
committed each day during which or on which the violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2006-12-60, 12-7-2006; amd. per correspondence dated 7-31-2018)
CHAPTER 11
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
(Rep. by Ord. 2006-12-61, 12-7-2006)
CHAPTER 12
TAXPAYERS' BILL OF RIGHTS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definitions
3-12-2: Application Of Tax Payments
3-12-3: Late Payment
3-12-4: Interest
3-12-5: Late Filing Penalties
3-12-6: Late Payment Penalty
3-12-7: Failure To File Penalty
3-12-8: Credits And Refunds
3-12-9: Credit And Refund Claim Procedure
3-12-10: Statute Of Limitations Regarding Locally Imposed And Administered
Taxes
3-12-11: Audit Procedures
3-12-12: Appeals Process
3-12-13: Appeal Hearing Procedures
3-12-14: Installment Contracts
3-12-15: Voluntary Disclosure
3-12-16: Criminal Penalties
3-12-17: Review Of Liens
3-12-18: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
3-12-19: Application
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, whenever any of the following words, terms or
definitions are used herein, they shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section:
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village manager of the village or other village
government officers charged with the administration or collection of a locally
imposed and administered tax, including their staffs, employees, or agents to
the extent they are authorized by the village manager to act in the village
manager's stead.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX: A tax imposed by the village that is
collected or administered by the village and not an agency or department of the
state. A "locally imposed and administered tax" does not include a tax imposed
upon real property under the property tax code or fees collected by the village
other than infrastructure maintenance fees. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff.
1-1-2001)
3-12-2: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance of a locally imposed and administered tax shall be
applied to the taxpayer's outstanding tax liability for the tax period in the
following order:
   A.   Tax for the period; then
   B.   Interest due for the period; then
   C.   Penalties due for the period. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-
2001)
3-12-3: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any village tax ordinance shall be considered late unless
it is: a) physically received by the village on or before the due date, or b)
received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S.
postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village,
with adequate postage prepaid. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-4: INTEREST:
Interest shall accrue and be assessed at the rate of one percent (1%) per month
for any late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of a locally imposed and
administered tax. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-5: LATE FILING PENALTIES:
Late filing penalties shall be imposed at five percent (5%) of the amount of
tax required to be shown as due on a return. A late filing penalty may not
apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the village pursuant to
section
3-12-7 of this chapter. The village manager may determine that the late filing
was due to reasonable cause and abate the penalty. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-
2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-6: LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
Late payment penalties shall be assessed at five percent (5%) of the tax due
and not timely paid or remitted to the village. This penalty shall not apply if
a failure to file penalty is imposed by the village pursuant to section
3-12-7 of this chapter. The village manager may determine that the late payment
was due to reasonable cause and abate the penalty. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-
2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-7: FAILURE TO FILE PENALTY:
If no return is filed before the issuance of a notice of tax deficiency or of
tax liability to the taxpayer, a failure to file penalty shall be assessed at
twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax due for the applicable reporting
period for which the return was required to have been filed. The village
manager may determine that the failure to file a return was due to reasonable
cause and abate the penalty. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-8: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
No refund or credit of any taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at
the time of payment shall be made even though a village tax may be declared
invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. A
taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid a tax voluntarily if the taxpayer
lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of
payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress. The statute of
limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be two (2) years after the
end of the calendar year in which payment or remittance in error was made. The
village shall not be required to grant a credit or refund of taxes, interest,
or penalties to a person who has not paid or remitted the amounts directly to
the village. The rate of interest for overpayment of tax shall be five percent
(5%) simple interest per annum. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-9: CREDIT AND REFUND CLAIM PROCEDURE:
The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows.
The taxpayer shall submit to the village manager in writing a claim for credit
or refund together with a statement specifying:
   A.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to the
claim;
   B.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
   C.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled check
or receipt for the payment;
   D.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or revised tax
return, in connection with the claim; and
   E.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the claim
to be applied to the amount owed, and, as applicable, related interest and
penalties; provided, however, that there shall be no refund and only a credit
given in the event the taxpayer owes any monies to the village.
Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the village manager of any claim for a
refund or credit, the village manager shall either: a) grant the claim, or b)
deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as to the reason
for the denial or the partial grant and denial. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000,
eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-10: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS REGARDING LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED
TAXES:
In accordance with state law, the village hereby determines that the applicable
limitations period for the determination and assessment of locally imposed and
administered taxes shall be as follows:
   A.   No notice of determination of tax due or assessment may be issued more
than four (4) years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for
the period was filed or the end of the calendar year in which the return for
the period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return was not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by village
the tax paid or remitted was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax
due for that period, the limitations period shall be six (6) years after the
end of the calendar year in which the return for the period was due or the end
of the calendar year in which the return for the period was filed, whichever
occurs later.
   C.   This section does not place any limitation on an action by the village
for taxes due or payable if a fraudulent tax return is filed. (Ord. 2000-12-27,
12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-11: AUDIT PROCEDURES:
Taxpayers must be notified in writing of a proposed audit by the village of the
taxpayer's books and records. The notice of audit must specify the tax and time
period to be audited and must detail the minimum documentation or books and
records to be made available to the auditor. Audits must be held only during
reasonable times of the day and unless impracticable, at times agreed to by the
taxpayer. An auditor who determines that there has been an overpayment of tax
during the course of the audit is obligated to identify the overpayment to the
taxpayer so that the taxpayer can take the necessary steps to recover the
overpayment. If the overpayment is the result of the application of some or all
of the taxpayer's tax payment to an incorrect local government entity, the
auditor must notify the correct local government entity of the taxpayer's
application error. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-12: APPEALS PROCESS:
The village shall refer to this chapter and shall include a written statement
of rights whenever the village issues a protestable notice of tax due, a bill,
a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The statement
must explain the reason for the assessment, the amount of the tax liability
proposed, the procedure for appealing the assessment, and the obligations of
the village during the audit, appeal, refund, and collection process. In no
event may a taxpayer be provided a time period less than forty five (45) days
after the date the notice was served in which to protest a notice of tax
determination or notice of tax liability. Any notice of tax assessment due must
be sent by United States registered or certified mail. The village's village
manager shall adopt procedures for opening up any closed protest period or
extending the protest period upon the showing of reasonable cause by the
taxpayer and full payment of the contested tax liability along with interest
accrued as of the due date of the tax. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-
2001)
3-12-13: APPEAL HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
village manager shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give written
notice to the taxpayer.
   B.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
3-12-12 of this chapter, the village manager shall conduct a hearing regarding
any appeal.
   C.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   D.   At the hearing, the village manager shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   E.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the village manager shall make a
written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing.
The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the written
decision. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-14: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
If the village manager allows installment payment agreements for delinquent tax
amounts, the village manager may not cancel any installment contract unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due on time and fails to cure the delinquency
in the allowable time supplied by village manager or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring any installment plan agreement or contract with the
village manager. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any tax for which a taxpayer has not received a written notice of an audit,
investigation, or assessment from the village manager, a taxpayer is entitled
to file an application with the village manager for a voluntary disclosure of
the tax due. A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to
pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month,
for all periods prior to the filing of the application but not more than four
(4) years before the date of filing the application. Except for the amount of
tax and interest due under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary
disclosure application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or
penalty for any period before the date the application was filed, provided,
however, that if the taxpayer incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount
of tax due as provided in this section, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest required under this section must be made within ninety (90) days after
the filing of the voluntary disclosure application, except that any additional
amounts owed as a result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid
under this section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final
determination and the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed.
(Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-16: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Criminal penalties may not be imposed on taxpayers for noncompliance with the
provisions of a locally imposed and administered tax unless the noncompliance
is a result of wilful or fraudulent disregard of the village's tax laws. (Ord.
2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-17: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The village manager shall establish an internal review process concerning liens
against taxpayers. If the lien is determined to be improper, the village
manager must remove the lien at the village's own expense, correct the
taxpayer's credit record, and correct any public disclosure of the improperly
imposed lien. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-18: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
The village shall publish and make copies of its taxing ordinances readily
available to the public at the village clerk's office upon request. Posting of
the tax ordinances on the internet satisfies the publication requirement of
this section. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-12-19: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be
controlling. (Ord. 2000-12-27, 12-21-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
CHAPTER 13
CARNIVALS
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: Permit Required
3-13-3: Application For Carnival Permit/Fees
3-13-4: Granting Of Permit
3-13-5: Personnel Identification
3-13-6: Issuance Of Permit In Duplicate
3-13-7: Penalty
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, whenever any of the following words, terms or
definitions are used herein, they shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section:
CARNIVAL: An aggregation of attractions, whether shows, acts, games, vending
devices or amusement devices, whether conducted under one or more managements
or independently, which are temporarily set up or conducted in a public place
or upon any private premises accessible to the public, with or without
admission fee, and which, from the nature of the aggregation, attracts
attendance and causes intermingling of persons in the spirit of merrymaking and
revelry.
CHILD ORIENTED RIDE OR SHOW: A carnival ride or show which is directed
exclusively toward persons under the age of eighteen (18). (Ord. 2003-7-34, 7-
24-2003)
3-13-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No carnival shall be set up, run, operated or conducted within the limits of
the village unless a written permit from the corporate authorities has been
issued, setting forth the conditions under which such carnival shall be
operated. The permit shall be granted upon the condition that there shall not
be set up or operated any gambling device, lottery, number or paddle wheel,
number board, punchboard, or other game of chance, or any lewd, lascivious or
indecent show or attraction making an indecent exposure of the person or
suggesting lewdness or immorality.
In addition, each permit shall have attached thereto a copy of this chapter,
and no permit shall be issued until the applicant has affirmatively
demonstrated that the carnival and its personnel will comply with the
provisions of this chapter and all other pertinent laws and regulations. (Ord.
2003-7-34, 7-24-2003)
3-13-3: APPLICATION FOR CARNIVAL PERMIT/FEES:
The village manager shall cause a carnival application form to be promulgated
pursuant to the terms of this chapter. An application fee of four hundred
dollars ($400.00) shall accompany each application. Upon the submission of the
completed application, the village manager shall forward the application for
review and approval by the corporate authorities. The application shall be
signed by the person to whom the permit will be issued and shall be verified by
oath or affidavit.
The application shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following
information:
   A.   The name, age and address of the person to whom the license is to be
issued.
   B.   If the application is on behalf of a corporation then it must be
executed by an officer of the corporation or other person duly authorized by
corporate resolution to execute the application.
   C.   The location of the premises or place of business which is to be
operated under such permit.
   D.   A statement that the applicant and his employees will not violate any
of the laws of the state of Illinois or of the United States or any ordinance
of this village in the conduct of the carnival.
   E.   Affirmative documentation which demonstrates that none of the carnival
personnel who will be attending or operating child oriented rides or shows is a
child sex offender as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-9.3 or 5/
11-9.4-1. (Ord. 2003-7-34, 7-24-2003)
3-13-4: GRANTING OF PERMIT:
No such permit shall be granted by the corporate authorities until they shall
have investigated the carnival and are satisfied that, if permitted, it will be
operated in accordance with the permit and the provisions of this chapter. The
past performance of the applicant shall be a significant factor in the issuance
of any permit under this chapter. The corporate authorities may issue the
permit and collect permit fees necessary to pay the expenses of the
investigation and to aid in policing the grounds and otherwise to compensate
the village in such amount as the corporate authorities may determine. Such
amount shall be paid by the applicant prior to the issuance of the permit. Each
permit shall contain the proviso that police officers shall have free access to
the grounds and all booths, shows and concessions on such grounds at all times,
and it shall be the duty of all officers present at such carnival to enforce
all the provisions of this chapter. In addition, to the extent that the
carnival will be located wholly or partly on village property, the corporate
authorities may require certificates of liability insurance naming the village
as an additional, noncontributory primary insured, a reasonable cleanup bond
and a hold harmless agreement in a form approved by the village. The
certificate of liability insurance shall be in such form and amount as is
normally and customarily required by the village's insurance carrier. (Ord.
2003-7-34, 7-24-2003)
3-13-5: PERSONNEL IDENTIFICATION:
All personnel associated with the carnival shall, at all times, wear visible
photo identification and such other forms of identification as may be
determined by the corporate authorities of the village. Any personnel who will
attend or operate child oriented rides or shows shall be separately listed on
the permit and shall further be required to wear special forms of visible
identification at all times. No other personnel shall attend or operate child
oriented rides or shows. (Ord. 2003-7-34, 7-24-2003)
3-13-6: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT IN DUPLICATE:
The permit as provided for in this chapter shall be made in duplicate, one copy
thereof being retained by the corporate authorities. The other copy shall be
kept in the possession of the manager of the carnival and shall be produced and
shown to any police officer or citizen upon request. (Ord. 2003-7-34, 7-24-
2003)
3-13-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and each day upon which the violation
exists shall be treated as a separate offense. (Ord. 2003-7-34, 7-24-2003)
CHAPTER 14
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
SECTION:
3-14-1: Definitions
3-14-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
3-14-3: PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
3-14-4: Applicable Principles
3-14-5: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder Or Cable Operator
3-14-6: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-14-7: Late Fees/Payments
3-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in- kind contributions received by the
holder or cable operator for the operation of a cable or video system to
provide cable service or video service within the holder's or cable operator's
cable service or video service area within the village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
1. Recurring charges for cable or video service.
2. Event based charges for cable service or video service, including, but not
limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
3. Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service equipment.
4. Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair charges.
5. Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, service order and service termination
charges.
6. Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and other
charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
7. A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or cable operator or
its affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the network to provide cable service or video service within the village.
The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the village
divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional
or national compensation arrangement.
8. Compensation received by the holder or cable operator that is derived from
the operation of the network to provide cable service or video service with
respect to commissions that are received as compensation for promotion or
exhibition of any products or services on the network, such as a "home
shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this definition.
9. In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the revenue attributable to the other services, capabilities, or
applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the holder or cable
operator can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
10. The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-
801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
1. Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt, subject to
220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
2. Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the amount of
gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued authorization to the
extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is attributable to cable service
or video service.
3. Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or functionally
integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues received from
services not classified as cable service or video service, including, without
limitation, revenue received from telecommunication services, information
services, or the provision of directory or internet advertising, including
yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and electronic publishing or
any other revenues attributed by the holder or cable operator to noncable
service or nonvideo service in accordance with the books and records and
records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable laws, rules,
regulations, standards, or orders.
4. The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
5. Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers or the
transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity and
collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to be
remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
6. Security deposits collected from subscribers.
7. Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors for
merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the cable
service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder or cable operator shall be included
in the calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue
as revenue of the affiliate has the effect of evading the payment of the fee
permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) which would otherwise
be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by the holder or cable operator to the village
for the service areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder or cable operator to a municipality
for the service areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 07-11-64, 11-15-2007)
3-14-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder or cable operator
providing cable service or video service in the village.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's or cable operator's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The Village: The holder shall notify the village at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service in the village.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder or cable operator shall be liable for
and pay the service provider fee to the village. The liability for the fee
shall commence on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30)
days after receipt of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder or
cable operator. The ordinance adopting this chapter shall be sent by the
village clerk via regular or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the address
listed on the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-401(b)(6) to the village and to any cable operator.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement in
effect with the village in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 07-11-64, 11-15-2007)
3-14-3: PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   PEG Fee Imposed: A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder or cable operator providing cable service or video service in the
village in addition to the fee imposed pursuant to section
3-14-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be one
percent (1%) of the holder's or cable operator's gross revenues or, if greater,
the percentage of gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the
village or its designee for PEG access support in the village as of January 1,
2007, as provided in 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d)(1).
   C.   Payment: The holder or cable operator shall pay the PEG access support
fee to the village or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG
access. The liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date
set forth in subsection 3-14-2D of this chapter.
   D.   Payment Due: The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar
quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation
of the fee.
   E.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary
payments for PEG access that would have been due during the remaining term of
the agreement had it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments
made by an incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be
credited against the fees that operator owes under subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 07-11-64, 11-15-2007)
3-14-4: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 07-11-64, 11-15-2007)
3-14-5: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER OR CABLE OPERATOR:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder or
cable operator from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village,
including any tax that is or may later be required to be paid with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 07-11-64,
11-15-2007)
3-14-6: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the municipality's submission of an invoice
for the sum. (Ord. 07-11-64, 11-15-2007)
3-14-7: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill
of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 07-11-64, 11-
15-2007)
CHAPTER 15
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
SECTION:
3-15-1: Customer Service And Privacy Protection Law
3-15-2: Enforcement
3-15-3: Penalties
3-15-4: Customer Credits
3-15-1: CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW:
   A.   Adoption: The regulations of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video
providers offering services within the village's boundaries.
   B.   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 07-11-63, 11-
15-2007)
3-15-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all the
customer service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video
protection law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
village. (Ord. 07-11-63, 11-15-2007)
3-15-3: PENALTIES:
The village, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501(r)(1), does
hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable
and video protection law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each day of the material breach and shall not exceed twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material breach per
customer.
   A.   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   B.   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach.
   C.   A material breach, for the purposes of assuming penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 07-11-63, 11-15-2007)
3-15-4: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/22-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the
customer for the next billing cycle following the violation or following the
discovery of the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for
providing the credits, and the customer is under no obligation to request the
credit. (Ord. 07-11-63, 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 16
OUTDOOR RESTAURANT SEATING
SECTION:
3-16-1: License Required
3-16-2: Miscellaneous Regulations
3-16-3: Application For License
3-16-4: Duties
3-16-5: Smoking In Outdoor Areas
3-16-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or entity shall operate a "restaurant", as defined in the zoning
ordinance, which provides outdoor seating for the purpose of consuming food or
beverages to customers, without a valid outdoor restaurant seating license.
Said license shall be in addition to any other license required by this
chapter, including a food handler license. (Ord. 2011-02-03, 2-17-2011)
3-16-2: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Administration: The village manager or his designee shall be
responsible for administering this chapter.
   B.   Annual License: An outdoor restaurant seating license shall be subject
to an annual review and issuance.
   C.   General Standards:
      1.   The establishment of outdoor restaurant seating shall not be
detrimental to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of persons
residing or working in the vicinity.
      2.   No outdoor restaurant seating areas shall be located in any minimum
yard setback or transitional yard as required by the Winfield zoning ordinance.
      3.   No outdoor restaurant seating area shall be allowed to be placed in
an existing parking lot so that it reduces the number of parking spaces below
the parking standards as stated in section
10-9-7, "Schedule Of Off Street Parking Requirements", of this code.
         a.   All outdoor restaurant seating areas located in parking lots
shall be enclosed by a barrier between patrons and vehicles.
      4.   All tables, chairs and other equipment shall be constructed and set
up in such a manner as to be easily removed during winter months or any other
time required by the village.
      5.   The proprietor shall be required to provide additional outdoor trash
receptacles for the outdoor restaurant seating as required by the village's
building official. Trash receptacles shall be constructed of an impervious
material and be of sturdy construction equipped with a tightfitting cover.
      6.   Sufficient area lighting for outdoor restaurant seating shall be
provided to alleviate any hazardous condition.
      7.   No soiled food service equipment, utensils or tableware may be kept
in the outdoor restaurant seating area.
      8.   All clean food service equipment, utensils or tableware must be
covered prior to use by patrons.
      9.   The outdoor restaurant seating shall be accessible to the disabled,
and the licensee shall at all times comply with all applicable federal, state
and village laws, ordinances and regulations concerning accessibility and
nondiscrimination in the providing of service.
      10.   In no event shall the operation of the outdoor restaurant seating
interfere with the passage of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or reduce the
open portion of the sidewalk to less than thirty six inches (36"), clear of all
obstructions, measured from edge of the sidewalk closest to the curb, lamppost
or parking meter.
      11.   In no event shall the operation of, or placement of equipment or
furnishings for, the outdoor restaurant seating obstruct access to any taxi
stand, bus stop, crosswalk, mailbox, curb cut, parking space or any other
public property. The furnishings or equipment shall not obstruct access to any
fire hydrant, fire escape or fire door, or obstruct the clear view of any
traffic signal, regulatory sign or street sign. Whether the placement of
equipment or furnishings obstructs access to any of the foregoing shall be the
sole determination of the village manager or his designee.
      12.   Outdoor furnishing materials and finishes shall be durable, smooth
and easily cleanable and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
      13.   Seeing eye and other disability assistance dogs shall be allowed in
an outdoor restaurant seating area provided that they are under the control of
their owner. All other animals are allowed in the outdoor restaurant seating
area at the discretion of the restaurant management.
      14.   All outdoor furnishings shall be designed to withstand a wind
pressure of not less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot so that the
furnishings will not be moved.
      15.   The outdoor restaurant seating area shall have direct access to the
restaurant's main public area, including restrooms.
      16.   If the restaurant does not have a liquor license and the outdoor
restaurant seating area is not located in a parking lot then no barrier shall
be required.
      17.   Any potential operator of an outdoor restaurant seating area must
be able to display conformance with section
9-1-2-6, "International Fire Code", 2006 edition, of this code as may be
amended from time to time, in regard to occupancy limit; circulation area; exit
and signage for same; lighting; safe escape route; presence of fire
extinguisher.
      18.   The licensee shall submit a detailed drawing showing the placement
of every item of furniture or equipment to be used as a part of the outdoor
restaurant seating. The proposed locations shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village. If a material change is made to an approved layout
then an amended application shall be required.
   D.   Additional Standards For Establishments With A Liquor License:
      1.   In order to segregate and distinguish outdoor food and beverage
consumption from the general public, the outdoor restaurant seating area must
be enclosed on all sides by a barrier not less than three feet (3') in height
as measured from the grade adjacent to the seating area. If the outdoor service
area is below grade of the adjacent public area, the applicant shall address to
the satisfaction of the village manager or designee a means of differentiating
the area and other performance standards. The enclosure shall provide not less
than fifty percent (50%) open area in design to allow viewing within. No food
or beverages shall be passed through this barrier. The barrier shall be sturdy,
and must not be moved beyond the area on the plan approved by the village. The
barrier shall not obstruct any fire exit, fire escape or other required means
of ingress and egress.
      2.   The sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in the outdoor
restaurant seating shall be restricted by the liquor license governing the
restaurant.
      3.   Any outdoor restaurant seating may only be open between the hours
consistent with those associated with the type of license the applicant
possesses. The liquor commissioner may modify the hours out of concern for
potential disruption of residential or other noise sensitive uses.
      4.   Signage governing no liquor sales to persons under the age of twenty
one (21) years shall be displayed in a prominent place in the outdoor
restaurant seating as depicted below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2148.gif]
(Ord. 2011-02-03, 2-17-2011)
3-16-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   General Requirements: Application for permits under this chapter shall
be made pursuant to section
3-1-3 of this title to the village manager or designee. In addition to the
materials required by section
3-1-3 of this title, the application shall also set forth the following:
      1.   How the premises will be supervised and maintained;
      2.   Description or photo of furniture to be used;
      3.   Number of patrons to be accommodated;
      4.   Five (5) copies of a plat or drawing indicating, to scale, the
amount of surface the applicant is seeking permission to use and the location
of furniture, equipment and any other article occupying public space;
      5.   Description of the food and drinks to be offered for sale.
   B.   Additional Requirements For Outdoor Restaurant Seating Areas Located On
Public Sidewalks Or The Public Right Of Way:
      1.   A written plan detailing the measures which the applicant expects to
take to ensure compliance with the conditions established hereby for an outdoor
restaurant seating license.
      2.   The licensee shall submit a plan showing the manner in which the
furnishings and equipment will be stored during the hours that the outdoor
restaurant seating portion of the restaurant is closed. The plan shall be
subject to the village's approval. All furnishings and equipment left outside
shall be moved as close to the building wall as may be practical during the
hours when not in use.
      3.   The licensee shall be responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of
the public property used for the outdoor restaurant seating and the replacement
of damaged public property, including brick pavers. No furniture or furnishings
may be attached by any means to the public area or any other public property.
Maintenance shall include daily cleaning of the area by an employee of the
licensee.
      4.   The holder of any permit shall obtain and keep in full effect at all
times commercial general liability (CGL) and, if necessary, commercial umbrella
insurance with a limit of not less than five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) each occurrence; and in the event liquor is being served, such
limit shall be not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). If such CGL
insurance contains a general aggregate limit, it shall apply separately to this
location. Said insurance shall cover liability arising from premises,
operations, independent contractors, personal injury and advertising injury,
and liability assumed under an insured contract (including the tort liability
of another assumed in a business contract).
The village shall be included as an additional insured under the CGL, and under
the commercial umbrella, if any. This insurance shall apply as primary
insurance with respect to any other insurance or self-insurance afforded to the
village. This coverage shall apply as primary insurance with respect to any
other insurance or self-insurance afforded to the village. Any insurance or
self-insurance maintained by the village shall be excess of the permit holder's
insurance and shall not contribute with it.
The permit holder shall maintain workers' compensation as required by statute
and employer's liability insurance. The commercial umbrella and/or employer's
liability limits shall not be less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
each accident for bodily injury by accident or one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) each employee for bodily injury by disease.
If the village has not been included as an additional insured under commercial
general and umbrella liability insurance required in this subsection, the
permit holder waives all rights against the village and its officers,
officials, employees, volunteers and agents for recovery of damages arising out
of or incident to the permit operations. The workers' compensation policy shall
be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the village for all
activities of the permit holder, its employees, agents and subcontractors.
As part of the permit application, the permit holder shall furnish the village
with a certificate(s) of insurance and applicable policy endorsement(s),
executed by a duly authorized representative of each insurer, showing
compliance with the insurance requirements set forth above.
All certificates shall provide for thirty (30) days' written notice to the
village prior to the cancellation or material change of any insurance referred
to therein. Written notice to the village shall be by certified mail, return
receipt requested.
For insurance companies which obtain a rating from A.M. Best, that rating
should be no less than A VII using the most recent edition of the "A.M. Best's
Key Rating Guide". If the Best's rating is less than A VII or a Best's rating
is not obtained, the village has the right to reject insurance written by an
insurer it deems unacceptable.
      5.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the permit holder shall
indemnify and hold harmless the village and its officers, officials, employees,
volunteers and agents from and against all claims, damages, losses and
expenses, including, but not limited to, legal fees (attorney and paralegal
fees and court costs), arising out of or resulting from the permit operations,
provided that any such claim, damage, loss or expense: a) is attributable to
bodily injury, sickness, disease or death, or injury to or destruction of
tangible property, other than the work itself, including the loss of use
resulting from and b) is caused in whole or in part by any wrongful or
negligent act or omission of the permit holder, any subcontractor, anyone
directly or indirectly employed by any of them or anyone for whose acts any of
them may be liable, regardless of whether or not it is caused in part by a
party indemnified hereunder. Such obligation shall not be construed to negate,
abridge, or otherwise reduce any other right or obligation of indemnity which
would otherwise exist as to any party or person described in this paragraph.
The permit holder shall similarly protect, indemnify and hold and save harmless
the village, its officers, officials, employees, volunteers and agents from any
and all claims, costs, causes, actions and expenses including, but not limited
to, legal fees, incurred by reason of the permit holder's breach of any of its
obligations under, or permit holder's default of, any provision of the permit
or any ordinance, statute, law or regulation. (Ord. 2011-02-03, 2-17-2011)
3-16-4: DUTIES:
   A.   Every licensee under this chapter shall have the duty to:
      1.   Cooperate with inspection of the premises, goods or articles at any
reasonable hour by the authorized agent, officer or employee of the village, or
his designee;
      2.   Ascertain and at all times comply with all laws, ordinances and
regulations, and all state statutes, applicable to such permitted business or
premises, including, but not limited to, all building, zoning, and fire
regulations, and especially to ascertain and at all times comply with any
county health department rules and regulations;
      3.   Post and maintain any and all permits delivered for use in a
conspicuous place;
      4.   During the course of business, not call out, cry, or by the use of
any device, make any noise or call attention to the sale of any products or
service whatsoever, or in any manner obstruct or interfere with the orderly
flow of pedestrian traffic; and
      5.   Maintain the area within and in proximity to their location in a
neat, clean and hazard free condition. (Ord. 2011-02-03, 2-17-2011)
3-16-5: SMOKING IN OUTDOOR AREAS:
   A.   A proprietor may designate an area as an outdoor patio where smoking is
permitted only if the area:
      1.   Is fifteen feet (15') or more from entrances, exits, windows that
open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited;
      2.   Is a contiguous area of a place of employment or public place;
      3.   Is controlled by the proprietor of the place of employment or public
place;
      4.   Has:
         a.   At least one side that consists of open space;
         b.   Permeable material;
         c.   A combination of open space and permeable material; or
         d.   A combination of open space, permeable material, and a
nonpermeable wall.
If this area has four (4) nonpermeable walls, it shall have either no overhead
covering or an overhead covering that consists of:
         a.   Permeable material; or
         b.   A combination of open space and permeable material.
If an outdoor patio where smoking is permitted has a doorway that provides
access from the indoor/enclosed area to the patio for outdoor patio patrons and
does not have a wall that prevents individuals from entering the outdoor patio,
the proprietor shall:
         a.   Inform individuals that the doorway:
            (1)   Is not an entrance to the indoor/enclosed area; and
            (2)   Is a doorway for outdoor patio patrons; and
         b.   Direct individuals who are not outdoor patio patrons to an
entrance to the indoor/enclosed area.
   B.   A proprietor may designate smoking and nonsmoking sections of an
outdoor patio only if the smoking section is clearly and conspicuously
separated from the nonsmoking section and if the smoking area is at least
fifteen feet (15') away from the entrance, exit, windows that open, and
ventilation intakes.
   C.   If a proprietor designates an area where smoking is permitted, the
proprietor shall not permit tobacco smoke to drift into areas where smoking is
prohibited through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or other means.
   D.   All nonsmoking areas may be permitted in accordance with section
4-6-1, "Smoking In Public Places Prohibited", of this code. Appropriate signage
shall be provided. (Ord. 2011-02-03, 2-17-2011)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Weeds And Turf Grass; Nuisance Declared
4-1-2: Duty To Cut Weeds And Grass
4-1-3: Weeds Cut By Village; Costs
4-1-4: Warning; Penalty
4-1-1: WEEDS AND TURF GRASS; NUISANCE DECLARED:
The growth of the following vegetation is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
to be against the health, peace and comfort of the Village for any person
within the corporate limits of the Village:
   A.   All weeds declared to be noxious in the Village of Winfield's Property
Maintenance Code;
   B.   All other weeds and/or turf grass which is permitted to grow to a
height greater than eight inches (8"): 1) within two hundred feet (200') of any
building used for residential purposes; 2) within any public right-of-way
immediately adjacent to privately owned property; 3) within five feet (5') of
any public right-of-way;
   C.   For the purpose of this chapter, the term "weeds" shall include noxious
weeds and turf grass in excess of the permitted height. (Ord. 2006-5-17, 5-18-
2006)
4-1-2: DUTY TO CUT WEEDS AND GRASS:
All such weeds and/or turf grass shall be cut by the owner or owners of such
real estate at any time that the prohibited weeds or turf grass grow to a
height in excess of the permitted height. The property owner shall cut or cause
the same to be cut within five (5) days after being notified to do so by the
Village. The failure to cut such weeds and/or turf grass within the designated
periods shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-5-17, 5-18-
2006)
4-1-3: WEEDS CUT BY VILLAGE; COSTS:
   A.   Village To Cut Weeds; Costs To Owner: When the owner or owners of such
real estate refuse or neglect to cut such weeds as required by section
4-1-2 of this chapter, the Chief of Police shall cause said weeds to be cut,
and the owner or owners of such real estate shall pay to the Village Collector
the reasonable costs of such cutting.
   B.   Weed Cutting Lien: The cost to the Village of such cutting is a lien
upon the real estate affected, superior to all other liens and encumbrances,
except tax liens; provided, that within sixty (60) days after said cost and
expense is incurred, the Village Clerk, or person performing the service by
authority of the Village, in his or its own name, shall file notice of lien in
the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of DuPage County. The notice shall consist
of a sworn statement setting out: 1) a description of the real estate
sufficient for identification thereof, 2) the amount of money representing the
cost and expense incurred or payable for the service, and 3) the date or dates
when said cost and expense was incurred by the Village. However, the lien of
the Village shall not be valid as to any purchaser whose rights in and to said
real estate have arisen subsequent to the weed cutting and prior to the filing
of such notice, and the lien of the Village shall not be valid as to any
mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienor whose rights in and to said real
estate have arisen prior to the filing of such notice.
   C.   Payment Of Costs And Expenses; Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the
cost and expense by the owner of or persons interested in said property after
notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the Village or
person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release may be filed of
record as in the case of filing notice of lien. (Ord. 250, 3-9-1961)
4-1-4: WARNING; PENALTY:
   A.   Warning: The Village of Winfield will provide one warning notice on an
annual basis for a violation of this chapter before issuing a citation in
accordance with the penalty provision set forth in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 2012-08-24, 8-2-2012)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Burning, Burying Or Accumulating Garbage
4-2-2: Depositing Garbage
4-2-3: Garbage Collection And Removal; Lien
4-2-4: Placement Of Containers
4-2-5: Littering Prohibited
4-2-6: Open And Recreational Burning
4-2-7: Antiscavenger Ordinance
4-2-8: Adopt-A-Highway Program
4-2-9: Warning; Penalty
4-2-1: BURNING, BURYING OR ACCUMULATING GARBAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person: to burn or bury garbage within the
village; to permit garbage, rubbish or debris to accumulate in any manner so as
to create a nuisance or to attract flies, vermin or rats; or to permit any
garbage, rubbish or debris to accumulate for more than seven (7) days;
provided, however, that gas incinerators or similar equipment properly
installed so that such installation does not constitute a health hazard, where
such installation has been inspected and approved by the code enforcement
officer, may be used for the burning of garbage; and properly installed kitchen
disposal units may be used for the disposal of garbage into sewer lines within
the village. (Ord. 91-5-1, 5-9-1991)
4-2-2: DEPOSITING GARBAGE:
   A.   Deposits In Streets: No garbage, debris or refuse of any kind shall be
deposited in any street, alley or public way, excepting bundled brush, garbage
wrapped in paper or plastic or some similar material and garbage, rubbish and
debris placed in closed containers (except for recycling containers furnished
by the county of DuPage or the village pursuant to an authorized curbside
recycling program) and placed for pick up by a scavenger service; and no such
garbage, refuse or debris shall be so placed that it can be blown or scattered
by the wind.
   B.   Deposits On Property Of Others: It is unlawful for any person to dump,
deposit or place any garbage, rubbish, trash, or refuse upon real property
owned by another without the consent of the owner or person in possession of
such real property. (Ord. 91-5-1, 5-9-1991)
4-2-3: GARBAGE COLLECTION AND REMOVAL; LIEN:
   A.   Collection And Removal By Village; Costs To Owner: As it is hereby
declared to be illegal for the owners of real estate to permit the accumulation
of garbage, rubbish and debris on their property, as set forth in sections
4-2-1 and
4-2-2 of this chapter, if the owner of such real estate, after reasonable
notice, refuses or neglects to remove such garbage and debris, the corporate
authorities of the village may direct that said garbage and debris be removed
and that the costs of said collection and removal be assessed to and collected
from the owner of the real estate in question.
   B.   Collection And Removal Costs; Lien: The cost of collection and removal
of garbage or debris shall be a lien upon the real estate affected, superior to
all subsequent liens and encumbrances except tax liens, if within sixty (60)
days after such a cost and expense is incurred, the village, or the person
performing the service by authority of the village in his or its own name,
files notice of lien in the office of the recorder of deeds of DuPage County.
The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out: 1) a description of
the real estate sufficient for identification thereof; 2) the amount of money
representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service; and 3)
the date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the village. The
lien of the village shall not be valid as to any purchaser whose rights in and
to such real estate have arisen subsequent to removal of garbage and debris and
prior to the filing of such notice, and the lien of the village shall not be
valid as to any mortgagee, judgment creditor or any other lienor whose rights
in and to such real estate arise prior to the filing of such notice.
   C.   Payment Of Costs And Expenses: Upon payment of the cost and expense by
the owner of or persons interested in such property after notice of lien has
been filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in whose name
the lien has been filed and the release may be filed of record as in the case
of filing notice of lien.
   D.   Foreclosure Of Lien: The lien may be enforced by proceedings to
foreclose as in the case of mortgages or mechanics' liens. Suit to foreclose
this lien shall be commenced within two (2) years after the date of filing
notice of lien. (Ord. 91-5-1, 5-9-1991)
   E.   Collection Hours: The collection and removal of garbage, rubbish and
debris by any refuse hauler shall be limited to the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Monday through Friday and eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on Saturday. Noncollection due to
agreed upon holidays or acts of God shall be the following day and subject to
the above hours. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
4-2-4: PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS:
Waste containers, landscape waste units and landscape waste totters and
recycling containers are to be stored at the side or rear of the residence, or
inside of a garage, except during the period of time between four o’clock (4:
00) P.M. the day prior to garbage pick-up and ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. on the
day of collection, when said waste containers, landscape waste units, landscape
waste toters and recycling containers may be placed at the curb. (Ord. 91-5-1,
5-9-1991; amd. Ord. 2022-12-14, 12-15-2022)
4-2-5: LITTERING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit in any manner
in or upon any public way, river, public waterway or basin, drain, drainage
ditch, sewer or receiving basin or other public place within the jurisdiction
of the Village, any kind of fill, dirt, rubbish, waste, article, thing or
substance whatsoever, whether liquid or solid. Nor shall any person place or
deposit any of these items anywhere within the jurisdiction of the Village in
such manner that it may be carried or deposited in whole or in part, by the
action of the sun, wind, rain or snow, into any of the aforementioned places.
   B.   This section shall not apply to the deposit of material under a permit
authorized by any ordinance of the Village; or to goods, wares, or merchandise
deposited on any public way or other public place temporarily, in the necessary
course of trade, and removed therefrom within two (2) hours after being so
deposited; or to articles or things deposited in or conducted into the Village
sewer system through lawful drains in accordance with the ordinances of the
Village relating thereto. (Ord. 91-5-1, 5-9-1991)
4-2-6: OPEN AND RECREATIONAL BURNING:
   A.   Prohibition: Except as hereinafter provided, the burning of any
landscape materials within the boundaries of the Village is prohibited.
“Landscape materials”, as that term is used herein, shall mean and include
grass clippings, leaves, bushes, tree branches and trimmings, and yard waste
materials.
      Exception: A “controlled” or “prescribed” bum, defined as a planned fire
used as a conservation method to help restore prairie vegetation by controlling
weeds and recycling nutrients to encourage stronger native plant growth.
Controlled or prescribed bum permits are secured through the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) upon review of a written bum plan
specific to each site. A copy of the plan and the IEPA approved permit must be
filed with the Village of Winfield and the local fire protection district or
local fire department before any approved bum shall take place, and the local
fire district or department will be notified before and after completion of the
prescribed burn on the day of the burn.
   B.   Licensed Bonfires Permitted: Provided that the permit required by
subsection D of this section has been issued, the permittee may have a bonfire
for recreational purposes, subject to the following terms and conditions:
      1.   Size And Duration: Bonfires shall be not more than four feet (4') in
width, four feet (4') in length, and four feet (4') in height. Bonfires shall
burn a maximum of four (4) hours, commencing not before twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon, and must be extinguished before twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of the
date for which the permit was issued.
      2.   Location: Bonfires shall be located not less than forty feet (40')
from any structure or vehicle or combustible or flammable material and ten feet
(10') from any property line or public roadway.
      3.   Attendance: Bonfires shall be attended at all times by an adult, at
least eighteen (18) years of age, and a means of extinguishing fire (e.g.,
garden hose and fire extinguisher) shall be present. Bonfires must be fully
extinguished prior to leaving the fire site unattended for any period of time.
      4.   Bonfire Material: Only dry, seasoned firewood may be used for the
bonfire.
   C.   Recreational Fires Permitted: Fires contained in outdoor fireplaces,
improved fire pits utilizing concrete or stone walls or portable cooking units
for the express purpose of cooking food for human consumption or for safely
conducting a fire for recreational purposes are permitted only if:
      1.   Fuel: The fuel for the fire is primarily charcoal, propane gas, dry
seasoned firewood or other similar and commercially prepared products for use
as cooking fuel. No household or landscape materials may be burned.
      2.   Location: The fire shall be located at least fifteen feet (15') from
any structure, property line, public roadway or dense brush and twenty five
feet (25') from any combustible or flammable material. The portable cooking
unit shall not be placed on any combustible or flammable surface and must be
elevated from ground level.
      3.   Attendance: The fire shall be attended at all times by an adult, at
least eighteen (18) years of age, and a means of extinguishing the fire (e.g.,
garden hose and fire extinguisher) shall be present. Fires must be fully
extinguished prior to leaving the fire site unattended for any period of time.
All cooking units shall be used according to manufacturers' directions and/or
Village guidelines.
      4.   Containers: Fires must be conducted in an approved and enclosed
container, defined by this section as "a commercially manufactured device
specifically designed, intended, advertised and utilized for the purpose of
cooking or recreational campfires, such as chimeneas or outdoor fireplaces".
Such containers must be located above ground.
      5.   Prohibitions: The fire shall not be used in a manner as to emit
excessive offensive or objectionable smoke or odors or when other circumstances
make such fires hazardous. The fires shall not be permitted to create excessive
flames, flying cinders or smoke and/or create flames, smoke or cinders.
      6.   Exceptions: Outdoor cooking grills, manufactured and sold for the
sole purpose of cooking food for human consumption, shall be located at least
three feet (3') from any structure or dense brush, may only be fueled with
charcoal briquettes, propane gas or natural gas hookup, and utilized in their
original manufactured condition.
   D.   Permits: A permit for a bonfire shall be issued prior to the respective
open burn. The application for the permit must be received three (3) business
days prior to the anticipated date of the bonfire.
      1.   Rain Delay: In the event rain or other inclement weather condition
prohibits the event on the date for which the permit was issued, the permit may
be carried to the next, successive day, if the petitioner notifies the Village
of the intent to postpone the fire for one day. The rain delay will not be
honored more than one day after the original permit date.
      2.   Suspend Burning: The Village reserves the right to suspend all
permitted burning at such time that atmospheric conditions increase the risk of
fire spreading from recreational fires and bonfires due to dry weather
patterns.
      3.   Approve Or Deny Permits: Further, the Village reserves the right to
approve and deny all permit applications for bonfires within incorporated
Winfield based upon health and safety concerns.
   E.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person found violating any provision of this section shall be
fined as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during which a violation continues or occurs.
      2.   In addition, any person found violating any provision of this
section shall immediately extinguish the fire upon demand of the Village.
Should the violator fail to do so, the Village shall take appropriate steps to
extinguish the fire, and the violator shall be responsible for the Village's
costs associated therewith. (Ord. 2014-12-40, 12-18-2014; amd. Ord. 2018-05-14,
5-3-2018; Ord. 2024-02-02, 2-1-2024)
4-2-7: ANTISCAVENGER ORDINANCE:
   A.   Definitions:
 
                     When used in this section, this term shall mean and
                     include:
                     Aluminum beverage cans, and bimetal cans.
                     Paper products, consisting of newsprint, high grade
                     wastepaper, mixed office wastepaper, and corrugated
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL: containers.
                     Glass bottles and jars consisting of clear, green, and
                     brown color.
                     Plastics, consisting of polyethylene terephthalate (PET),
                     high density polyethylene (HDPE), vinyl/polyvinyl chloride
                     (PVC), low density polyethylene (LDPE), polypropylene, and
                     all other resins and layered multimaterial.
                     When used in this section, this term shall include every
                     person, firm, or corporation that shall engage in the
SCAVENGER:           business of buying, selling, bartering or exchanging, or
                     that shall collect, receive, store, or hold in possession
                     for sale, barter or exchange any of the things defined
                     herein as recyclable materials.
 
   B.   Restrictions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any scavenger to rummage through any items
placed for collection by the Village’s refuse collector so as to cause, permit,
or suffer any of said items, including, but not limited to, garbage or
offensive substances, to be scattered about, or to remain at the location at
which they were placed for collection by the Village’s refuse collector.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any scavenger to collect, obtain, possess,
rummage through or pick up any recyclable item placed for collection as part of
the Village’s recycling program. (Ord. 90-10-3, 10-25-1990)
4-2-8: ADOPT-A-HIGHWAY PROGRAM:
   A.   Title And Purpose:
      1.   This section shall be known and cited as the VILLAGE OF WINFIELD
ADOPT-A-HIGHWAY ORDINANCE.
      2.   The purpose of this section is to allow private citizens to support
Municipal antilitter efforts by allowing groups to adopt a section of highway
for the purpose of litter collection. This section is adopted pursuant to the
Illinois Adopt-A-Highway Act 1 .
   B.   Definitions: For purposes of this section:
ADOPTED SECTION: A length of Municipal right-of-way and a length of State
right-of-way identified by the Illinois Department of Transportation and the
Village as a safe, adoptable section of right-of-way located within the
corporate limits of a municipality, approved by the sponsoring jurisdiction's
Director for adoption by a group. Sections of rights-of-way may be determined
inappropriate for safety reasons. No interstates may be adopted.
DIRECTOR: The Village Manager or his designee who has responsibility for the
administration of the Village's adopt- a-highway program.
GROUP: Members or employees of civic or not for profit organizations and
commercial or private enterprises who have requested to participate, or who are
participating, in an adopt-a-highway program.
GROUP COORDINATOR: The individual selected by a group to serve as its liaison
with the Village.
GROUP PRESIDENT: The individual who is the recognized leader, president, or
chairman for a group.
LITTER: Any unsightly or offensive matter that may include disposable
packaging, containers, cans, bottles, paper, ashes, and cigar and cigarette
butts. Litter does not include hazardous, heavy or large items or carcasses.
   C.   Participation In Program:
      1.   The Director is responsible for organizing and controlling
participation in the program.
      2.   Groups may apply to the Village for participation in the Village
adopt-a-highway program. The applicant must follow the terms and procedures
established by the Village in applying for participation in their adopt-a-
highway program. All applications must be submitted to the Director of the
program on the forms provided by the Director.
   D.   Agreement Required:
      1.   The Director shall have sole responsibility in determining whether
an application is rejected or accepted. If an application is approved, the
group coordinator and group president shall execute a written agreement
provided by the Village.
      2.   All sections of highway to be adopted must be approved by the
District Office of the Illinois Department of Transportation. This shall be the
responsibility of the Director.
   E.   Signs: Adopt-a-highway signs, as developed by the Illinois Department
of Transportation, may be erected by the Village. (Ord. 93-11-3, 11-11-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 605 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
4-2-9: WARNING; PENALTY:
   A.   Warning: The Village of Winfield will provide one warning notice on an
annual basis for a violation of this chapter before issuing a citation in
accordance with the penalty provision set forth in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 2012-08-24, 8-2-2012)
   B.   Penalty: Unless otherwise provided, anyone violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC INDECENCY
SECTION:
4-3-1: Application
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Exclusion
4-3-4: Public Nuisance
4-3-5: Construction And Severability
4-3-6: Penalty
4-3-1: APPLICATION:
A person who knowingly or intentionally does the following, in a public place
commits public indecency, a summary offense:
   A.   Engages in sexual intercourse;
   B.   Engages in "deviate sexual conduct" as defined by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes;
   C.   Appears in a state of nudity; or
   D.   Fondles the genitals of himself, herself, or another person. (Ord.
2000-7-19, 7-20-2000)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple; the
exposure of any device, costume, or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, natal cleft, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region; or the exposure of any device worn as a cover over the nipples
and/or areola of the female breast, which device simulates and gives the
realistic appearance of nipples and/or areola.
PUBLIC PLACE: Includes all outdoor places owned by or open to the general
public, and all buildings and enclosed places owned by or open to the general
public, including such places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants, clubs,
theaters, dance halls, banquet halls, party rooms, or halls limited to specific
members, restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether or not
an admission charge is levied. (Ord. 2000-7-19, 7-20-2000)
4-3-3: EXCLUSION:
The prohibition set forth in subsection 4-3-1C of this chapter shall not apply
to:
   A.   Any child under ten (10) years of age; or
   B.   Any individual exposing a breast in the process of breastfeeding an
infant under two (2) years of age. (Ord. 2000-7-19, 7-20-2000)
4-3-4: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the specific penalties provided in this chapter, it is hereby
declared that any building, portion of a building, or enclosed place regularly
used for the prohibited display of public nudity is a public nuisance,
subjecting the owner, proprietor or other operator thereof to any and all
actions authorized by the commonwealth of Illinois for the abatement of public
nuisances, including, but not limited to, the procedures set forth in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-60-2. (Ord. 2000-7-19, 7-20-2000)
4-3-5: CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY:
It is the intention of the village of Winfield that the provisions of this
chapter be construed, enforced, and interpreted in such a manner as will cause
the least possible infringement of the constitutional rights of free speech,
free expression, due process, equal protection of other fundamental rights
consistent with the purposes of this chapter. Should a court of competent
jurisdiction determine that any part of this chapter, or any application or
enforcement of it is excessively restrictive of such rights or liberties, then
such portion of the chapter, or specific application of the chapter, shall be
severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2000-7-19, 7-20-2000)
4-3-6: PENALTY:
Whoever violates this chapter, either by commission of a public indecency, or
by the promotion or maintenance of public indecency as property owner,
proprietor or manager of a business, shall be guilty of a summary offense, and,
upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 4
SOUND POLLUTION
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Excessive, Unnecessary Or Unusually Loud Sound Prohibited
4-4-3: Regulated Sounds
4-4-4: Exemptions
4-4-5: Enforcement
4-4-6: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ANNOYING: Disturbing or irritating, especially by repeated acts. Implies a
wearing on the nerves by persistent unpleasantness.
CONTINUOUS: Continuing indefinitely in time without interruption or recurring
in steady, rapid succession.
DAYTIME HOURS: The local time of day between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Monday through Friday and eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Saturday, Sunday and holidays.
DISTURB: To destroy the tranquility or composure of.
ENDANGER: To bring into peril or create a dangerous situation.
EXCESSIVE: Going beyond a normal limit to an amount or degree too great to be
reasonable or acceptable.
IMPULSIVE: Of short duration, usually less than one second, with an abrupt
onset and rapid decay.
INJURE: The inflicting of anything detrimental to one's comfort or health.
LOUD: Marked by above normal or obtrusive intensity or volume.
NIGHTTIME HOURS: Any time of day which has not been defined herein as "daytime
hours".
REPETITIVE: An act or instance which occurs again and again.
SOUND POLLUTION: Any sound which endangers or injures the safety or health of
humans or animals; or annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities; or unreasonably interferes with the enjoyment of life or with
any lawful business or activity; or that exceeds the applicable maximum
permissible sound levels as they appear in this chapter.
UNNECESSARY: Not required or needed. (Ord. 2004-11-49, 11-4-2004)
4-4-2: EXCESSIVE, UNNECESSARY OR UNUSUALLY LOUD SOUND PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or
continued, any excessive, unnecessary, repetitive, impulsive or unusually loud
sound which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of others, within the limits of the village. The
following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary sounds in violation of this chapter, but such enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   A.   Horns, Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling device
on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place of
the village, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any such
signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound and the sounding of
any such device for an unnecessary or unreasonable period of time; or the use
of any such signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up.
   B.   Loudspeakers; Amplifiers: The playing, use or operation of, or
permitting to be played, used or operated any radio, television, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound which can be heard upon the
public streets or public ways.
   C.   Yelling; Shouting; Hooting; Whistling; Singing: Yelling; shouting;
hooting; whistling; singing on the public streets at any time or place so as to
annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office,
residence or dwelling of any persons in the vicinity.
   D.   Animals, Dogs, Birds: It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal
which disturbs the peace with loud, continuous, annoying or impulsive noises at
any time of the day or night.
   E.   Motor Vehicles: No person shall needlessly race the motor of any motor
vehicle, needlessly bring a motor vehicle to a sudden start or stop, or cause
to be made any other loud or unseemly noise, nuisance or disturbance.
   F.   Excessive Sound Near Protected Entities: The creation of any excessive
sound on any street adjacent to any school, court, church or hospital which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution or which disturbs
the individuals therein. (Ord. 2004-11-49, 11-4-2004)
4-4-3: REGULATED SOUNDS:
The following acts, among others, are declared to be sounds that must adhere to
specified hours, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive,
namely:
   A.   The use of heavy equipment or construction equipment for the erection,
expansion, renovation, alteration, repair or demolition of any privately owned
structure or property shall be limited to the hours of seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Monday through Friday, eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on Saturday, and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Sundays and holidays.
   B.   The outside or open structure use of hand, power and other tools for
the erection, expansion, renovation, alteration, repair or demolition of any
privately owned structure or property shall be limited to daytime hours. (Ord.
2004-11-49, 11-4-2004)
   C.   Powered equipment such as lawn mowers, leaf blowers, small lawn and
garden tools, riding tractors and other landscaping equipment for the
maintenance of property, so long as the sound suppression devices are kept in
good repair and maintenance, shall be allowed during daytime hours. Use of
powered equipment for the maintenance of golf courses shall be allowed between
the following additional hours provided electric powered riding greens mowers
are used instead of gas powered riding greens mowers: from the hour of five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Monday through Friday and from
the hour of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on Saturday,
Sunday and holidays from May 15 to September 15; and from five thirty o'clock
(5:30) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Monday through Friday and from five
thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on Saturday, Sunday and
holidays during the remainder of the year during which the golf course is
operating. Golf courses shall utilize and maintain accepted practices to
minimize noise whenever possible. (Ord. 2010-06-17, 6-3-2010)
   D.   Temporary sources of sound emission as may be granted a permit in
writing for a specific duration by the village manager and/or his duly
authorized representative where there is evidence of appropriate justification.
Such permit shall not exceed twelve (12) hours in duration and shall be
nonrenewable. (Ord. 2004-11-49, 11-4-2004)
4-4-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following acts, among others, are declared to be necessary or important
operations or activities which are exempt from the regulations of this chapter,
but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   A.   Operation of municipal snow removal equipment, emergency vehicles, and/
or any other municipal or utility maintenance operation serving the general
welfare of the public at any time. When feasible, reasonable steps shall be
taken by those in charge of such operations to minimize noise emanating from
the same.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sound required
specifically by law for the protection or safety of people or property.
   C.   Community events which include such things as parades, festivals, and
4th Of July celebrations that are sanctioned or sponsored in whole or in part
by local governments, schools, or charitable or service organizations. (Ord.
2004-11-49, 11-4-2004)
4-4-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Upon finding of a violation of the standards herein established, the person
causing or permitting the sound to occur shall be advised of the violation and
given an opportunity to abate the sound level to acceptable standard. Should
the person making or causing to be made the unlawful sound emission be
unavailable or unwilling to comply with a request to abate the sound level, or
should the sound level once abated return to an excessive level, there shall be
a citation of the responsible person(s), and the violation shall be prosecuted
as any other ordinance violation. (Ord. 2004-11-49, 11-4-2004)
4-4-6: PENALTY:
A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as having been committed on
each occasion when a person shall continue or permit any such violation to
exist after notification thereof. Any person convicted of a violation of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code for each offense. Any person accused of violating or
failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter may settle and compromise
the claim against him or her for such illegal actions by paying to the Village
a sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) within five (5) days after issuance of a
citation therefor. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 5
CURFEW
SECTION:
4-5-1: Curfew Established
4-5-2: Defenses
4-5-3: Parental Knowledge
4-5-4: Penalty
4-5-1: CURFEW ESTABLISHED:
It shall be unlawful for a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at
the following times:
   A.   Between one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. Saturday.
   B.   Between one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. Sunday.
   C.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive,
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day. (Ord. 2005-3-14, 3-3-2005)
4-5-2: DEFENSES:
   A.   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the minor
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      1.   Accompanied by the child's parent, legal guardian, custodian,
sibling, stepbrother or stepsister at least eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   Accompanied by an adult at least eighteen (18) years of age approved
by the child's parent, guardian or custodian;
      3.   Participating or returning from:
         a.   Employment which the laws of this State authorize a person less
than eighteen (18) years of age to perform;
         b.   A school recreational activity;
         c.   A religious event;
         d.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         e.   An activity involving the exercise of the child's rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
article 1, sections 3, 4, and 5 of the Constitution of the State of Illinois,
or both;
         f.   An activity conducted by a not for profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults.
   B.   Before issuing a citation or making an arrest for violating this
chapter, a police officer shall inquire into a minor's reasons for being in a
public place during curfew hours, and the officer may issue a citation or make
an arrest only if the officer reasonably believes that the person has violated
this chapter and that no defenses apply. (Ord. 2005-3-14, 3-3-2005)
4-5-3: PARENTAL KNOWLEDGE:
It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to knowingly permit
a person in his custody or control to violate the provisions of section
4-5-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-3-14, 3-3-2005)
4-5-4: PENALTY:
Anyone violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided in
section
13-1-4 of this Code for each offense. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 6
SMOKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Smoking In Public Places Prohibited
4-6-1: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED:
   A.   In accordance with the terms and provisions of the Smoke Free Illinois
Act 1 , as now existing or hereafter amended, which Act is adopted by reference
herein, smoking in public places or places of employment within the Village is
hereby prohibited. (Ord. 08-6-32, 6-19-2008)
   B.   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited under this
section shall be fined as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 7
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
SECTION:
4-7-1: Truancy
4-7-2: Graffiti
4-7-3: Injuring Property
4-7-4: Petty Theft
4-7-5: Retail Theft
4-7-6: Battery
4-7-7: Skateboards, Bicycles Or Scooters Prohibited
4-7-8: Trespass
4-7-9: Possession Of Cannabis Prohibited
4-7-10: Possession Of Synthetic Cannabinoids And Synthetic Alternative Drugs
4-7-11: Production, Sale And Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
4-7-12: Air Rifles And Firearms
4-7-13: Slingshots
4-7-14: Dangerous Missiles
4-7-15: Discharging Firearms Or Artillery Pieces
4-7-16: Firearms To Minors
4-7-17: Public Drunkenness
4-7-18: Loitering
4-7-19: Mob Action
4-7-20: Obstructing, Disobeying Police Officer
4-7-21: Fighting In Public Prohibited
4-7-22: Urinating Or Defecating In Public Prohibited
4-7-23: Careless Driving
4-7-24: Penalty
4-7-1: TRUANCY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
words and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: Any foster parent, person appointed guardian or given custody
of a minor by a Circuit Court of this State, or person appointed legal guardian
or given custody of a minor under the Illinois Juvenile Court Act, but shall
not include any person appointed guardian only to the estate of a minor.
MINOR, MINOR CHILD OR WARD: Any person over five (5) years but not yet eighteen
(18) years of age.
PARENTS: Means and includes the father and/or the mother of a minor child,
whether by birth or adoption, or shall be deemed to be the parent having legal
custody of the minor in the event the parents are divorced or separated. The
term "parent" as used in this section shall also be deemed to mean "legal
guardian".
   B.   Truancy Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any minor enrolled in a
public, private or parochial school within the corporate limits of the Village
of Winfield to absent himself or herself from attendance at school for a school
day or portion thereof without permission of his or her parent or legal
guardian. Emergency of unforeseen absences due to illness or other causes
beyond the control of person so absenting himself or herself from school
without permission of his or her parent or legal guardian shall not constitute
truancy if permission for such absence has in substance been obtained from the
parent or legal guardian and such permission is confirmed in writing to the
proper school authorities within twenty four (24) hours after such absence.
   C.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal
guardian to suffer or permit his or her minor child or ward to violate this
subsection. It shall be an offense under this subsection for a parent to
knowingly cause to be submitted to any school authorities written permission,
which explains the absence from school attendance of his or her minor child
that contains false information. (Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-2012)
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person ten (10) years of age or older that shall violate
subsection B of this section shall be subject to a fine as provided by sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-2: GRAFFITI:
   A.   Definition: "Graffiti" shall be defined as the inscription, drawing or
otherwise placing upon any sidewalk, street or the surface of any structure or
wall, whether publicly or privately owned, any word, phrase, diagram, symbol,
sketch or letters wherein the content thereof is visible to any member of the
general public, and contains, without limitation, but merely as illustration,
references to sexual activity or sexual organs, references to criminal
activities or groups involved in criminal activity, swearing or fighting words,
defamatory materials or words about any person, or references to relationships.
   B.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw or
otherwise place upon any sidewalk, street or the surface of any structure or
wall, whether publicly or privately owned, any "graffiti" as defined in this
section.
It shall be an affirmative defense to the alleged violation of this subsection
if such activity was undertaken with the prior written consent of the owner of
the property, which consent demonstrates that the owner was aware of the
content and method of the inscription to be placed on the sidewalk, street,
structure or wall.
   C.   Responsibility For The Removal Of Graffiti: It shall be the duty of the
owner of the sidewalk, street, structure or wall upon which any inscription or
representation prohibited in subsection B of this section to remove, eradicate
or eliminate such inscription or representation within forty eight (48) hours
from the occurrence or awareness of the offense. In the event the owner has
failed to eliminate such graffiti, the owner shall be notified via certified
mail or personal notice that he may be fined for each day the violation
continues until such graffiti is removed.
   D.   Compensation And Restitution: The owner of the property shall be
entitled to restitution and compensation for the direct costs incurred in the
repair and restoration of his property to its previous condition from any
person found liable of the offense listed in subsection B of this section,
provided that the property owner submits receipts or other evidence of the
costs for the removal or repair of the graffiti and provided further that the
adjudicator or court enters an order of restitution. (Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-
2012)
   E.   Penalty: Upon a finding of guilty for violation of subsection B of this
section, there shall be imposed a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-3: INJURING PROPERTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, remove, destroy
or in any manner cause injury to any property belonging to any person or
nongovernmental entity, which property is located on any street, alley or
private or public place, unless authorized by the owner of such property. Upon
a finding of guilty for violation of this subsection, there shall be imposed a
fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, remove, destroy
or in any manner cause injury to any property belonging to the Village, school
district, or any other governmental entity, which property is located on any
street, alley or private or public place unless authorized by the owner of such
property. Upon a finding of guilty for violation of this subsection there shall
be imposed a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-4: PETTY THEFT:
   A.   Petty Theft: A person commits theft when he knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
or
      2.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
      3.   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
      4.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another, and: a) intends to deprive the owner permanently of the
use or benefit of the property; or b) knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the
property in such manner as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or
benefit; or c) uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
No person shall commit theft of property not from the person and not exceeding
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) in value.
   B.   Theft Of Lost Or Mislaid Property: A person who obtains control over
lost or mislaid property commits theft when he knows or learns the identity of
the owner or knows or is aware of, or learns of a reasonable method of
identifying the owner, fails to take reasonable measures to restore the
property to the owner, intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or
benefit of the property or assumes control over mislaid property knowing that
it does not rightfully belong to the finder.
      1.   No person shall commit theft of lost or mislaid property.
   C.   Theft Of Labor Or Services Or Use Of Property: A person commits theft
when he obtains the temporary use of property, labor or services of another
which are available only for hire, by means of threat or deception or knowing
that such use is without the consent of the person providing the property,
labor or services.
      1.   No person shall commit theft of labor or services or use of
property.
   D.   Offender's Interest In The Property: It is no defense to a charge of
theft of property that the offender has an interest therein, when the owner
also has an interest to which the offender is not entitled.
      1.   Where the property involved is that of the offender's spouse, no
prosecution for theft may be maintained unless the parties were not living
together as man and wife and were living in separate abodes at the time of the
alleged theft. (Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-2012)
   E.   Penalty: Upon a finding of guilty for violation of subsection A, B or C
of this section, there shall be imposed a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-5: RETAIL THEFT:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them unless a contrary meaning is
clear from the context.
CONCEAL: To "conceal" merchandise means that, although there may be some notice
of its presence, merchandise is not visible through ordinary observation.
FULL RETAIL VALUE: The merchant's stated or advertised price of the
merchandise.
MERCHANDISE: Any item of tangible personal property.
MERCHANT: An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee or
independent contractor of such owner or operator.
MINOR: A person who is less than eighteen (18) years of age, is nonemancipated
and resides with his parents or legal guardian.
PERSON: Any natural person or individual.
PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Includes, but is not limited to,
the retail mercantile establishment; any common use areas in shopping centers
and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of a merchant for
the parking of vehicles for the convenience of the patrons of such retail
mercantile establishment.
RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where merchandise is displayed,
held, stored or offered for sale to the public.
UNDER RING: To cause the cash or other sales recording device to reflect less
than the full retail value of the merchandise.
   B.   Offense Of Retail Theft: A person commits the offense of retail theft,
which shall be a violation of this Code, when he or she knowingly:
      1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
      2.   Alters, transfers, or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale, in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in
consort with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      3.   Under rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise; or
      4.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale, in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      5.   Represents to a merchant that he or another is the lawful owner of
property; knowing that such representation is false, and conveys or attempts to
convey that property to a merchant who is the owner of the property in exchange
for money, merchandise credit or other property of the merchant.
   C.   Presumptions: If any person:
      1.   Conceals upon his or her person or among his or her belongings,
unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment; and
      2.   Removes that merchandise beyond the last known checkout stand or
station for receiving payment for that merchandise in that retail mercantile
establishment such person shall be presumed to have possessed, carried away or
transferred such merchandise with the intention of retaining it or with the
intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the possession, use or
benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail value of such
merchandise. (Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-2012)
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of subsection B of this
section shall be fined as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. In addition to the imposition of a fine, as herein
provided, any minor found to have violated the provisions of subsection B of
this section may be ordered to attend remedial education classes. (Ord. 2019-
02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-6: BATTERY:
   A.   Prohibition: A person commits battery, which is prohibited, if he
intentionally or knowingly without legal justification and by any means:
      1.   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
      2.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual. (Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-2012)
   B.   Penalty: Upon a finding of guilty for violation of subsection A of this
section, there shall be imposed a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-7: SKATEBOARDS, BICYCLES OR SCOOTERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions:
BICYCLE: A device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels.
IN-LINE SKATE: A manufactured or assembled device consisting of an upper
portion that is intended to be secured on a human foot, with a frame or chassis
attached along the length of the bottom of such upper portion, with such frame
or chassis holding two (2) or more wheels that are longitudinally aligned and
used to skate or glide, by means of human foot and leg power while having such
device attached to each such foot or leg.
SCOOTER: A vehicle consisting of a narrow board or a narrow metal or plastic
platform mounted between two (2) wheels tandem with an upright steering handle
attached to the front wheel, typically propelled by the foot, or a similar
motorized vehicle.
SKATEBOARD: A rectangular or surf board shaped board, constructed of wood or
any other material, with a set of four (4) or more roller skate wheels mounted
under it or any similar contrivance upon which a person may glide on roller
skate wheels over a street, sidewalk or other smooth surface.
   B.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, propel,
skate, glide or otherwise use a skateboard, in-line skates, bicycle or scooter
on any public ways or public property located in the Village of Winfield where
prohibitive signs are posted. (Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-2012)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of subsection B of this
section shall be fined as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-8: TRESPASS:
   A.   Trespasses Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to commit a trespass within this Municipality upon either public or
private property.
   B.   Specifically Enumerated Trespasses; Suppression: Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of subsection A of this section, any of the
following acts by any person, firm or corporation shall be deemed included
among those that constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of
subsection A of this section, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at
any time or from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or
violations of this section, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included being as
follows:
      1.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof;
      2.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incident to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning, or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
      3.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      4.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-2012)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of subsection A of this
section shall be fined as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-9: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibition: Within the corporate limits of the Village of Winfield, no
person shall grow, possess, sell, give away, barter, deliver, exchange,
distribute or administer any cannabis.
   B.   Definitions:
      1.   "Cannabis" means and includes marijuana, hashish and other
substances which are identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis
sativa, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any
part of such plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin, including
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives, including its
naturally occurring or synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced
directly or indirectly by extraction, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis. (Ord. 2012-
08-31, 8-2-2012)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section with respect to less than
thirty grams (30 g) of cannabis shall be fined as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-10: POSSESSION OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS AND SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS:
   A.   Prohibition: Within the corporate limits of the Village of Winfield, no
person shall grow, possess, sell, give away, barter, deliver, exchange,
distribute or administer any synthetic stimulants, cannabinoids, psychedelic/
hallucinogens and all other unregulated THC.
   B.   Definitions:
SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS (Stimulants Or Psychedelic/ Hallucinogens): Any
compound, substance, material, preparation or product(s) and their analog
containing a synthetic stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen that mimics the
effects of any Federally controlled schedule I substance, which have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous system.
SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS: Any laboratory created compound that functions similar
to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), including,
but not limited to, THC acetate ester (THCO), Delta-8 THCO, Delta-9 THCO, any
quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture, preparation or
substance and their analog (including isomers, esters, ethers, salts and salts
of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor agonist or drug substance that is
to date banned or listed by the Drug Enforcement Agency and/or considered a
schedule I drug.
   C.   Penalty For Possession: Any person, who violates this section with
respect to possession of any amount, shall be fined as provided in sections
13-1-3  and
13-1-4  of this Code.
   D.   Penalty For Sale Or Transfer: Any person, who violates this section
with respect to the sale or transfer of any amount, shall be fined as provided
in sections
13-1-3  and
13-1-4  of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-08-16, 8-17-
2023)
4-7-11: PRODUCTION, SALE AND POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires:
CANNABIS: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in subsection 4-7-9B1 of this
chapter or section 3 of the "Cannabis Control Act", as if that definition were
incorporated herein.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 102 of
the "Illinois Controlled Substances Act", as if that definition were
incorporated herein.
DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials or any kind which
peculiar to or marketed for use in or actually used in, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body
cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the "Cannabis Control Act"
or the "Illinois Controlled Substances Act". It includes, but is not limited
to, objects peculiar to and marketed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human
body including, where applicable, but not limited to, the following items:
      1.   Water pipes;
      2.   Carburetion devices;
      3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
      5.   Electric pipes;
      6.   Air driven pipes;
      7.   Chillums;
      8.   Bongs;
      9.   Ice pipes or chillers;
      10.   Roach clips;
      11.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic marijuana
or hashish pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or
punctured metal bowls, such pipes having a bowl diameter of one-half inch (1/
2") or less;
      12.   Any item, the purpose of which, as announced or described by the
seller thereof, is for use in violation of this section.
   B.   Sale Or Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell,
dispense, give away, or otherwise transfer any item of "drug paraphernalia" as
defined herein.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess "drug paraphernalia"
as defined herein, for the purpose of ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing cannabis or any controlled substance into the human body, or in
preparing cannabis or a controlled substance for that use.
      3.   In determining whether an object is "drug paraphernalia", a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
         a.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         b.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, under any State or Federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
         c.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this section; the innocence of any owner, or of anyone in control of the
object, as to a direct violation of this section shall not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
         d.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object which
explain or depict its use;
         e.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         f.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         g.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         h.   Proximity of the cannabis or controlled substances to drug
paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or a controlled substance on the drug
paraphernalia;
         i.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
   C.   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to:
      1.   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling, or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to
lawful research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale; or
      2.   Items marketed for, or historically and customarily used in
connection with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance; or
      3.   Items listed in the definition of "drug paraphernalia" in subsection
A of this section which are marketed for decorative purposes, when such items
have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used for any
illicit purpose prohibited by this section. In determining whether or not a
particular item is exempt under this subsection, the trier of fact should
consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors, the following:
         a.   The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the
item involved has been put;
         b.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the
items and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the
device upon its functioning;
         c.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
         d.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the
time and place of sale or commercial delivery;
         e.   Any national or local advertising concerning the design, purpose
or use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
         f.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was
displayed for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or
otherwise exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
         g.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         h.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community. (Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-2012)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates this section shall be fined as
provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-12: AIR RIFLES AND FIREARMS:
The provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, specifically 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/24, subsection 24-1(a)(1) through (5), 24-1(a)(10), 24-1(a)
(11), or 24-1(a)(13) as now existing or hereafter amended, except for those
provisions which by their nature can have no application to the Village, are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter with the same force
and effect as if set forth at length herein.
   A.   Definitions: As used in this chapter:
AIR RIFLE: Any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, BB gun,
paintball gun, pellet gun, or any implement that is not a firearm that:
      1.   Impels a breakable paintball containing marking colors; or
      2.   A pellet constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead, or other hard
materials with a force that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
   B.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person under eighteen (18)
years of age to carry any air rifle on the public streets, roads, highways, or
public lands within the Village of Winfield.
It shall be unlawful for any person, irrespective of age, to discharge any air
rifle from or across any street, sidewalk, road, highway or public land, or any
public place except on a safely constructed target range.
It shall be unlawful of any dealer to sell, lend, rent, give or otherwise
transfer an air rifle to any person under the age of eighteen (18), where the
dealer knows or has cause to believe the person to be under eighteen (18) years
of age, or where such dealer has failed to make reasonable inquiry relative to
the age of such person and such person is under eighteen (18) years of age.
It is unlawful for any person to sell, give, lend or otherwise transfer any air
rifle to any person under eighteen (18) years of age except where the
relationship of parent and child, guardian and ward, or adult instructor and
pupil exists between such person and the person under eighteen (18) years of
age, or where such person stands in loco parentis to the person under eighteen
(18) years of age.
   C.   Exemption: Notwithstanding any provisions of this chapter, it is lawful
for any person under eighteen (18) years of age to have in his possession any
air rifle if it is:
      1.   Kept within his house of residence or other private enclosure;
      2.   Used by the person under eighteen (18) years of age and he is a duly
enrolled member of any club, team or society organized for educational purposes
and maintaining as part of its facilities, or having written permission to use
an indoor or outdoor rifle range under the supervision, guidance and
instruction of a responsible adult, and then only if the air rifle is actually
being used in connection with the activities of the club, team or society under
the supervision of a responsible adult; or
      3.   Used in or on any private grounds or residence under circumstances
when such air rifle is fired, discharged or operated in such a manner as not to
endanger persons or property, and then only if it is used in such a manner as
to prevent the projectile from passing over any grounds or space outside the
limits of such grounds or residences.
   D.   Seizure And Removal: The Village of Winfield Police Department shall
seize, take, remove or cause to be removed at the expense of the owner any air
rifle sold or used in any manner in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-08-
31, 8-2-2012)
   E.   Penalty: Upon a finding of guilty for violation of this section, there
shall be imposed a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-13: SLINGSHOTS:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any individual to use, sell,
manufacture, purchase, possess or carry any slingshot within the Village of
Winfield.
   B.   Penalty: Upon a finding of guilty for violation of this section, there
shall be imposed a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-2012)
4-7-14: DANGEROUS MISSILES:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw stones,
missiles, or other articles or things by which persons may be injured, or
vehicles damaged or endangered or to throw any stone or other missile at any
building, railroad car or other public or private property, or at or upon any
person or on any street or public place. (Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-2012)
   B.   Penalty: Upon a finding of guilty for violation of this section, there
shall be imposed a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-15: DISCHARGING FIREARMS OR ARTILLERY PIECES:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall fire or discharge any air gun, nor any
pistol, revolver or firearm, nor any stun gun or taser, or other similar such
device, within the Village of Winfield. No person shall discharge any piece of
artillery within the Village unless:
      1.   Prior written permission has been obtained from the Village Council;
      2.   Projectiles are not used; and
      3.   The person discharging the artillery piece possesses all applicable
State and Federal permits or licenses. (Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-2012)
   B.   Penalty: Upon a finding of guilty for violation of this section, there
shall be imposed a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-16: FIREARMS TO MINORS:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall sell, loan or furnish to any minor, any
gun, pistol, firearm, rifle or any air gun. (Ord. 2012-08-31, 8-2-2012)
   B.   Penalty: Upon a finding of guilty for violation of this section, there
shall be imposed a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
4-7-17: PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be upon public streets, sidewalks,
alleyways or property of the Village, under the influence of intoxicating
liquors, or to be disturbing the peace of any individual in public while so
intoxicated. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
4-7-18: LOITERING:
Any person or persons who at any time stand, stroll or walk on any public
street, sidewalk or in and at any public place in such a manner to impede,
hinder or interfere with the normal flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on
such public sidewalk, street or property and who refuse to disburse and move
from the area from which such a person or persons is impeding or interfering
with pedestrian or vehicular traffic when lawfully directed to do so by any
member of the Police Department. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
4-7-19: MOB ACTION:
Mob action consists of one or more of the following:
   A.   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two (2) or
more persons acting together and without authority of law; or
   B.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   C.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons without authority of law for
the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to
have been guilty of a violation of the law or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
It shall be unlawful for any participant in a mob action to fail to withdraw on
being legally commanded to do so by any police officers. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-
1-2016)
4-7-20: OBSTRUCTING, DISOBEYING POLICE OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, resist, prevent or
obstruct any police officer, or any person legally authorized by such officer,
in the discharge of their official duties, or to aid, act or encourage any such
hindering, delaying, resisting, preventing or obstructing, or to neglect or
refuse to obey any lawful order or directions of any such police officer or
person legally authorized by them. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
4-7-21: FIGHTING IN PUBLIC PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to fight in any public place within the
Village. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
4-7-22: URINATING OR DEFECATING IN PUBLIC PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in or on any public
street, right-of-way, alley, sidewalk, yard, park, building, structure, utility
right-of-way, or other public place, or in any place where the urination or
defecation is within the public view. For purposes of this section the public
shall include police officers. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
4-7-23: CARELESS DRIVING:
No person shall operate any motor vehicle negligently, carelessly or without
precaution in a manner so as to endanger any person or property on any public
way, or upon any way or place in private ownership and used for vehicular
travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission by the
owner, in the Village. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
4-7-24: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined
as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code for each such offense. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 8
NUISANCE TREES
SECTION:
4-8-1: Dangerous Or Diseased Trees; Nuisance Declared
4-8-2: Duty To Trim Or Remove Trees
4-8-3: Trees Cut, Trimmed Or Removed By Village; Costs
4-8-4: Warning; Penalty
4-8-1: DANGEROUS OR DISEASED TREES; NUISANCE DECLARED:
The following trees are hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the
health, peace and comfort of the Village for any person within the corporate
limits of the Village:
Ash trees infected with the emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire).
Elm trees infected with Dutch elm disease.
Any tree that poses a threat of harm to any persons or damage to any property
on any adjoining public or private property. (Ord. 2014-11-34, 11-6-2014, eff.
1-1-2015)
4-8-2: DUTY TO TRIM OR REMOVE TREES:
All such trees shall be cut, trimmed or removed by the owner or owners of such
real estate at any time as required to abate the nuisance. The property owner
shall cut, trim or remove or cause the same within five (5) days after being
notified to do so by the Village. The failure to cut, trim or remove said tree
(s) within the designated periods shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-11-34, 11-6-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
4-8-3: TREES CUT, TRIMMED OR REMOVED BY VILLAGE; COSTS:
   A.   Village To Cut, Trim Or Remove Trees; Costs To Owner: When the owner or
owners of such real estate refuse or neglect to cut, trim or remove said tree
(s) as required by section
4-8-2 of this chapter, the Chief of Police shall cause said tree(s) to be cut,
trimmed or removed, and the owner or owners of such real estate shall pay to
the Village Collector the reasonable costs of such cutting, trimming or
removal.
   B.   Tree Cutting, Trimming Or Removal Lien: The cost to the Village of such
cutting, trimming or removal is a lien upon the real estate affected, superior
to all other liens and encumbrances, except tax liens; provided, that within
sixty (60) days after said cost and expense is incurred, the Village Clerk, or
person performing the service by authority of the Village, in his or its own
name, shall file notice of lien in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of
DuPage County. The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out: 1) a
description of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof, 2) the
amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the
service, and 3) the date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by
the Village. However, the lien of the Village shall not be valid as to any
purchaser whose rights in and to said real estate have arisen subsequent to the
tree cutting, trimming or removal and prior to the filing of such notice, and
the lien of the Village shall not be valid as to any mortgagee, judgment
creditor or other lien or whose rights in and to said real estate have arisen
prior to the filing of such notice.
   C.   Payment Of Costs And Expenses; Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the
cost and expense by the owner of or persons interested in said property after
notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the Village or
person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release may be filed of
record as in the case of filing notice of lien. (Ord. 2014-11-34, 11-6-2014,
eff. 1-1-2015)
4-8-4: WARNING; PENALTY:
   A.   Warning: The Village of Winfield will provide one warning notice on an
annual basis for a violation of this chapter before issuing a citation in
accordance with the penalty provision set forth in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 2014-11-34, 11-6-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Established; Composition
5-1-2: Appointments
5-1-3: Chief Of Police
5-1-3-1: Deputy Chief Of Police
5-1-3-2: Corporal
5-1-4: Powers And Duties Of Police Officers
5-1-4-1: Part Time Police Officer
5-1-5: Uniforms And Badges
5-1-6: Resignation From Department
5-1-7: Participation In DuPage County Emergency Call Up Plan
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
The police department is hereby established for the performance of all police
functions as may heretofore or hereinafter be authorized.
The police department shall consist of the following active positions which are
hereby established, the number of which shall be determined by the operating
budget as authorized by the corporate authorities: (Ord. 2004-9-38, 9-16-2004)
Chief of police
Deputy chief of police
Corporal
Sergeants
Patrol officers
(Ord. 2004-9-38, 9-16-2004; amd. Ord. 2016-05-14, 5-20-2016)
5-1-2: APPOINTMENTS:
All officers and men in the police department, except the chief, shall be
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Illinois Compiled Statutes
entitled "an act to provide for the appointment of a board of fire and police
commissioners" 1 . The chief of police shall be the ranking officer of the
department. (Ord. 447, 2-14-1974; amd. per correspondence dated 2-26-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.
5-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Qualifications: No person shall be eligible to hold the office of chief
of police unless he shall possess technical training in and knowledge of
principles and accepted good practices and procedures as applied to police
administration. He shall:
      1.   Have considerable knowledge of the standards by which the quality of
police services is evaluated and of the use of police records and their
application to police administration.
      2.   Have considerable knowledge of types and uses of firearms,
communications and automotive equipment in modern police work.
      3.   Have a knowledge of the function of federal, state and local
jurisdictions and authorities as related to police work.
      4.   Have the ability to plan, lay out and supervise the work of
subordinates performing police activities and to develop proper training and
instructional procedures for those employees and to maintain a high level of
discipline and morale.
      5.   Have had experience in modern police work which has afforded
progressively responsible experience in a variety of police functions,
including responsible supervisory police duties and graduation from a standard
high school, supplemented by formal training in modern police administration
and practice.
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to:
      1.   Provide for the custody, care and control of the public property of
the department of police, including all firearms and other equipment and the
books and records of the department of police.
      2.   Devote his full time to the duties and responsibilities of his
office.
      3.   Preserve the peace, order, safety and cleanliness of the village.
      4.   Execute and enforce all ordinances and police regulations and orders
of the village board of trustees.
      5.   Protect the rights of persons and property within the village.
      6.   Take notice of all nuisances and at all times render all assistance
necessary to departments of the village in abatement thereof 1 .
      7.   Take notice of all impediments, obstructions and defects in the
walks, streets, avenues and public places of the village and cause to give
immediate notice thereof to the proper person, including those whose duty it
may be to attend to the removal of the same.
      8.   Make a full and complete annual report to the village board of
trustees of all police department operations for the preceding year.
      9.   Make such rules and regulations not inconsistent with fire and
police commission rules and regulations concerning the police department;
provided, that before taking effect, such rules and regulations shall have been
submitted to and approved by the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 447, 2-
14-1974)
      10.   Keep a record of all property which may be seized or otherwise
acquired by the police department under circumstances supporting a reasonable
belief that such property was abandoned, lost or stolen or otherwise illegally
possessed, except property seized during a search and retained and ultimately
returned, destroyed or otherwise disposed of pursuant to order of a court, and
except property of which custody and disposition is prescribed by 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et seq 2 . Such property believed to be abandoned,
lost or stolen or otherwise illegally possessed shall be retained in custody by
the chief of police and he shall make reasonable inquiry and efforts to
identify and notify the owner or such persons entitled to possession thereof
and shall return the property after such person provides reasonable and
satisfactory proof of his ownership or right to possession and reimburses the
police department for all reasonable expenses of such custody. Weapons that
have been confiscated as a result of having been abandoned or illegally
possessed may be transferred to the department of state police for use by the
crime laboratory system, for training purposes, or for any other application as
deemed appropriate by the department, if no legitimate claim is made for the
confiscated weapon within six (6) months of the date of confiscation, or within
six (6) months of final court disposition if such confiscated weapon was used
for evidentiary purposes. If the identity or location of the owner or other
person entitled to possession of the property has not been ascertained within
six (6) months after the police department obtains such possession, the chief
of police shall effectuate the sale of the property for cash to the highest
bidder at a public auction, notice of which (including time, place and a brief
description of such property) shall be published at least once in a newspaper
of general circulation in the county wherein such official has authority at
least ten (10) days prior to such auction. However, if the chief of police
determines that the interests of the public would best be served thereby, he
may transfer custody of the property to the village, rather than effectuating
the sale of the property by public auction. Property offered but not sold at
such public auction may be offered and sold at a subsequent public auction
without such notice. Proceeds of the sale of the property at public auction
less reimbursement to the law enforcement agency of the reasonable expenses of
custody thereof, shall be deposited in the treasury of the village. The owner
or other person entitled to possession of such property may claim and recover
possession of the property at any time before its sale at public auction, upon
providing reasonable and satisfactory proof of ownership or right to possession
and reimbursing the law enforcement agency for all reasonable expenses of
custody thereof. No person shall be responsible for consequent damages to
another occasioned by an act or omission in compliance with this act. (1994
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 1 of this code.
2 1. See title 6, chapter 5 of this code for abandoned, wrecked vehicles.
5-1-3-1: DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   There is hereby created in and for the village of Winfield the office
of deputy chief of police.
   B.   The deputy chief of police shall be appointed by the chief of police.
   C.   The deputy chief may be appointed from any rank of sworn, full time
officers of the village's police department and must have at least five (5)
years of full time service as a police officer in the Winfield police
department.
   D.   The deputy chief of police position shall be an exempt rank subordinate
exclusively to the chief of police. Said deputy chief of police shall serve at
the discretion of the chief, and, if removed from the position, shall revert to
the rank held immediately prior to the appointment to the deputy chief
position. However the deputy chief of police, having been appointed from any
rank of sworn officers, shall be permitted, regardless of rank, to take
promotional exams and be promoted to a higher classified rank than he currently
holds, without having to resign as deputy chief of police. (Ord. 2004-9-38, 9-
16-2004)
5-1-3-2: CORPORAL:
   A.   There is hereby created in and for the village of Winfield the position
of corporal.
   B.   The position of corporal shall be appointed by the chief of police.
   C.   The corporal may be appointed from any rank of sworn, full time
officers of the village's police department and must have at least two (2)
years of full time service as a police officer in the Winfield police
department.
   D.   Anyone assigned the rank of corporal shall serve at the discretion of
the chief, and, if removed from the position, shall revert to the rank held
immediately prior to the appointment to the corporal position. However the
corporal, having been appointed from any rank of sworn officers, shall be
permitted, regardless of rank, to take promotional exams and be promoted to a
higher classified rank than he currently holds, without having to resign as
corporal. (Ord. 2016-05-14, 5-20-2016)
5-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Generally: The members of the police force of the village while on duty
shall devote their full time and attention to the discharge of their duties
according to the laws of the state and ordinances of the village and the rules
and regulations of the department to preserve order, peace and quiet and
enforce the laws and ordinances throughout the village. (Ord. 447, 2-14-1974)
   B.   Arrest Powers: The members of the police force shall have power to
arrest as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1-2(a).
   C.   Serve Warrants And Processes: The members of the police force shall
have power and authority and it shall be their duty to serve and execute
warrants and other processes in the village for the summoning, apprehension and
commitment of any person charged with violation of any provision of the village
ordinances, or with any crime or misdemeanor, or offense against the laws of
the village or state.
   D.   Assist Fire Department: It shall be the duty of members of the police
force to aid the fire department by giving alarms in case of fire and by
clearing the streets and grounds in the immediate vicinity of a fire so that
the members of the fire department shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties.
   E.   Restrictions On Duties: No member of the police force shall be assigned
to any duty other than that strictly in line of police work. (Ord. 447, 2-14-
1974; amd. 1994 Code)
5-1-4-1: PART TIME POLICE OFFICER:
   A.   The chief of police is hereby authorized to appoint not more than five
(5) part time police officers. The chief of police shall have full authority to
discipline or discharge part time police officers. Part time police officers
shall be at will employees and may be discharged with or without cause by the
chief of police at any time. Part time police officers shall be subject to the
direction and control of the chief of police at all times during the
performance of their duties. Part time police officers shall further abide by
all rules, regulations, policies and general orders of the Winfield police
department, as promulgated from time to time.
   B.   Hiring standards for part time police officers shall be as follows:
      1.   An applicant for the position of part time police officer must have
reached twenty one (21) years of age and possess a high school diploma or its
equivalent and pass a physical exam, a psychological exam, and other exams as
directed by the chief of police to determine fitness for duty. The applicant
must also submit to a preemployment background check, which includes a
fingerprint check through the Illinois state police and the federal bureau of
investigation.
      2.   A person hired to serve as a part time police officer must have from
the Illinois law enforcement training standards board a certificate: a)
attesting to his or her successful completion of the part time police training
course; b) attesting to his or her satisfactory completion of a training
program of similar content and number of hours that has been found acceptable
by the board; or c) attesting to the board's determination that the part time
police training course is unnecessary because of the person's extensive prior
law enforcement experience.
      3.   A person hired to serve as a part time police officer shall have a
valid Illinois driver's license.
   C.   Part time police officers shall be members of the police department,
but are excluded from the police pension fund pursuant to 40 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-109(a)(1), and are excluded from the provisions of the Illinois
municipal code, article 10, division 2.1., board of fire and police
commissioners, pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-26. Part time
police officers shall not be assigned under any circumstances to supervise or
direct full time police officers of the police department. Part time police
officers shall not be used as permanent replacements for permanent full time
police officers.
   D.   Part time police officers shall be trained under the intergovernmental
law enforcement officer's in-service training act, in accordance with the
procedures for part time police officers established by the Illinois law
enforcement training standards board. (Ord. 2016-05-13, 5-20-2016)
5-1-5: UNIFORMS AND BADGES:
   A.   Uniforms Required: No member of the police force, except members
thereof assigned to detective or confidential duty, shall wear citizen's dress
while on duty.
   B.   Badges: Every member of the department of police shall wear a suitable
badge to be furnished by the village and any member who shall lose or destroy
the same shall be required to pay the cost of replacing it. Whenever any member
shall leave the department, he shall immediately deliver his badge to the chief
of police. (Ord. 447, 2-14-1974)
5-1-6: RESIGNATION FROM DEPARTMENT:
No person shall resign any position on the police force except upon fifteen
(15) days' notice in writing, given to the chief of police. Any person
withdrawing without leave shall thereafter be deemed disqualified to become a
member of the department. (Ord. 447, 2-14-1974)
5-1-7: PARTICIPATION IN DUPAGE COUNTY EMERGENCY CALL UP PLAN:
The Winfield police department is hereby authorized and directed to participate
in the "DuPage County emergency call up plan" and the Winfield police
department agrees to abide by the rules and regulations set forth for the
operation of this plan as it is now in effect or as it is amended from time to
time. (Res., 12-9-1966)
CHAPTER 2
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Declaration Of Emergency; Procedures
5-2-3: Interpretation Of Provisions
5-2-4: Comprehensive Emergency Operations Plan Adopted
5-2-5: Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: A. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate
power to execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority
of law; or
   B.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village,
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to said civil emergency. (Ord. 369, 5-10-1968)
5-2-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Authority To Declare Emergency: Whenever an emergency, as defined in
section
5-2-1 of this chapter, exists, the mayor shall declare the existence by means
of a written declaration setting forth the facts which constitute an emergency.
   B.   Curfew May Be Ordered: After proclamation of a civil emergency by the
mayor, he may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of
the village or to the village as a whole as he deems advisable and applicable
during such hours of the day or night as he deems necessary in the interest of
the public safety and welfare.
   C.   Prohibitions May Be Ordered: After the proclamation of a civil
emergency, the mayor of the village may also, in the interest of public safety
and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
      1.   Liquor Stores: Order the closing of all retail liquor stores,
including taverns and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption
of intoxicating liquor and beer is permitted.
      2.   Liquor Sales: Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic
liquor by any wholesaler or retailer.
      3.   Sales Of Combustibles: Order the discontinuance of selling,
distributing or giving away gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible
products in any container other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a
motor vehicle.
      4.   Firearms Sales: Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing,
dispensing or giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character
whatsoever.
      5.   Other Orders: Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary
for the protection of life and property. (Ord. 369, 5-10-1968)
   D.   Term Of Proclamation: The proclamation herein authorized shall be
effective for a period of seven (7) days unless sooner terminated by a
proclamation of the village president indicating that the civil emergency no
longer exists. The village president, with the consent of the board of
trustees, shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency
at the end of each seven (7) day period during the time the said civil
emergency exists. (Ord. 96-11-43, 11-21-1996)
   E.   Media To Be Notified: Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized,
the Chief of Police shall notify the news media situated within the Village,
and shall cause three (3) copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of
the emergency to be posted at the following places within the Village: the
Village Hall, the Police Station and the Post Office. (Ord. 369, 5-10-1968)
5-2-3: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in any existing ordinances of the Village giving powers to the Police
and Fire Departments, but shall be construed together with existing ordinances
now in effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the Village. (Ord.
369, 5-10-1968)
5-2-4: COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN ADOPTED:
The document captioned "Comprehensive Emergency Operations Plan", consisting of
the basic document (pages BD-11 through BD-30, annexes A, B, C and D and
administration, consisting of pages 3 through 30) be and the same is hereby
adopted as the comprehensive emergency operations plan for the Village. (Ord.
91-12-1, 12-12-1991)
5-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or executive order issued
pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against the Village, and shall be
fined as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Rabies Inoculation Required
5-3-3: Running At Large; Other Restrictions And Prohibitions; Reports Of
Incidents
5-3-4: Loud, Continuous, Annoying Or Impulsive Noises Prohibited
5-3-5: Animal Bites
5-3-6: Dog Nuisance Prohibited
5-3-7: Cat Regulation
5-3-8: Penalties
5-3-9: Wild Animals
5-3-10: Impoundment And Redemption
5-3-11: Costs To Be Paid By Responsible Persons Or Entities
5-3-12: Animal Cruelty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following terms are used as herein defined:
ATTACK: Any aggressive, menacing, or vicious physical contact between any dog
and either a person or another dog, including, but not limited to, contact of
the mouth or teeth of the dog with the victim of the attack and any striking or
scratching of the victim of the attack by the paws of any dog.
BITE: Seizing with the teeth or jaws so that the person or other dog seized has
been nipped, gripped, cut, wounded, or pierced, and further includes the
contact of saliva with a break or abrasion of the skin.
CONFINEMENT STRUCTURE: A securely locked pen, kennel, or other structure
designed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the standards herein.
Such pen, kennel, or other structure must have secure sides and secure top
attached to the sides and must be locked with a key or combination lock when
dogs are within the structure. Such structure must have a secure bottom or
floor attached to the sides, or the sides of the structure must be embedded in
the ground no less than two feet (2'). All such structures must comply with all
zoning and building regulations of the village and be adequately lighted,
ventilated, and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
DISTURBANCE OF THE PEACE: Activity by a dog that results in upsetting the quiet
and good order on public or private property, particularly through loud noise,
by fighting, aggressive and/or other unsocial behavior which frightens or
upsets people.
DOG: A member of the family Canidae.
DOG, DANGEROUS: Any dog which, unmuzzled, in a vicious or terrorizing manner,
approaches any person or other dog in an apparent attitude of attack upon any
street, sidewalk, or any public grounds or place, or any premises other than
those of its owner; provided, that such approach is unprovoked.
DOG, MENACING: Any dog whose conduct places a person in reasonable fear of
physical injury or death, and/or because of said behavior denies the peaceful
and legal use of private property.
DOG RUNNING AT LARGE: Any dog not securely restrained by a leash and not on the
premises of its owner.
DOG, VICIOUS: Any dog which has, when unprovoked, bitten or attacked any person
or other dog on public or private property; has a known tendency, propensity or
disposition to attack persons or dogs without provocation; or has been found to
be a dangerous dog upon three (3) separate occasions.
FENCE: A permanent metal or wood structure for the purpose of this chapter to
contain a dog, which otherwise complies with the standards set forth elsewhere
in this code for location and design. A recognized fence for the purpose of
this chapter shall not include a buried electrical wire, marketed as an
"invisible fence", designed to transmit an electrical charge to the animal
wearing a receptor collar, which is conceived to train said animal to not leave
the area enclosed with the wire installation.
GUIDE DOG: A dog trained and used to aid the blind or hearing impaired;
provided, that the owner of such dog complies with the provisions contained in
510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8.
K-9 DOG: A dog trained and used in the performance of official police duties
authorized by the chief of police; provided, that any such dog shall be
currently inoculated against rabies as provided for in 510 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8.
KENNEL: As defined in section
10-1-4, "Rules And Definitions", of this code.
LEASH: A cord, rope, strap or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of the dog and which shall be of sufficient strength to keep
the dog under control.
MUZZLE: A device constructed of strong, soft material or metal which will
prevent a dog from biting any person or dog; provided, that such muzzle must be
made in a manner which will not cause injury to the dog nor interfere with its
vision or respiration.
OWNER: Any person, partnership, corporation, or any other entity having or
exercising a right of property in a dog, or who keeps or harbors a dog, or who
has it in his care or acts as its custodian, or who knowingly permits a dog to
remain on or about premises occupied by him whether temporary or permanent, but
does not include the owner or operator of a kennel.
PREMISES: Any enclosed area, including building or fences that can properly
contain an animal. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
5-3-2: RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of the owner or person in custody of any dog kept in the
village to have the dog inoculated against rabies at least once each year. No
license for a dog shall be issued unless the applicant exhibits a certificate
by a veterinarian showing compliance with this section within one year prior to
the issuance of the license. A current rabies vaccination tag shall be attached
to a collar or harness and worn at all times by the dog for which the
certificate and tag have been issued, except when such dog is confined. (Ord.
2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
5-3-3: RUNNING AT LARGE; OTHER RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS; REPORTS OF
INCIDENTS:
   A.   Running At Large: Any dog found running at large in the village shall
be deemed to be a public nuisance. No dog owner or owner or operator of a
kennel shall allow a dog, whether licensed or unlicensed, to run at large in
the village. For the purposes of this section, any dog which is not on a leash
and under the control of a person physically able to control it, shall be
deemed to be running at large.
   B.   Damage Of Vegetation: No person shall, without the consent of the owner
of the property concerned, permit any dog in his custody and control to enter
upon the premises of another within the village or permit any dog in his
custody or control to injure, destroy or carry away any vegetable, plant,
fruit, shrub, tree, flower or other thing which may be on such premises or
which may be planted or seeded there.
   C.   Impoundment: All dogs found to be running at large shall be promptly
impounded by the chief of police or any person authorized by the chief of
police for this purpose. Any person owning, having custody, possession, or
control over any dog which violates any provision of this section shall be
guilty of an unlawful act. Notwithstanding any provision contained in this
chapter to the contrary, K-9 and guide dogs shall be exempt from the provisions
of this section, when performing its duties as expected.
   D.   Dangerous Dogs:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any dangerous dog to leave the premises of
the owner, unless such dog is securely muzzled, restrained on a leash and under
the direct care and supervision of the owner; provided, that in no event shall
such dog be under the direct control and supervision of any person under the
age of sixteen (16) years.
      2.   If any dangerous dog, when it is necessary for the protection of any
person or property, cannot safely be taken up and impounded, such dog may be
slain by any police officer of the village; provided, however, that in all
cases where any dog so slain has bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the
skin of any such person, it shall be the duty of the police department slaying
such dog to immediately deliver the carcass and brain of such dog to the state
department of public health.
      3.   No owner or keeper of a dangerous dog shall sell or give away any
such dog unless the person receiving the dog is given a written notice that the
dog has been found to be a dangerous dog.
      4.   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post a warning sign, which is
readable from not less than one hundred feet (100'), in a prominent place in
front of the owner's premises, to inform the public of the presence of the
dangerous dog. Such sign shall be of metal, with black letters at least two
inches (2") in height on a white background. Such sign shall state:
   WARNING: DANGEROUS DOG ON PREMISES.
   E.   Vicious Dogs:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, maintain, own or in any way
possess within the corporate limits of the village any vicious dog unless such
dog is at all times kept in a confinement structure.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection E1 of this section, a
vicious dog may be allowed out of a confinement structure if it is necessary in
order to obtain veterinary care or to comply with the order of a court of
competent jurisdiction. Any time that a vicious dog is outside a confinement
structure, such dog shall be securely muzzled, restrained on a leash, and under
the direct care and supervision of the owner; provided, that in no event shall
such dog be under the direct control and supervision of any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years.
      3.   No owner of a vicious dog shall sell, or otherwise transfer, set
free, abandon, or give any vicious dog to any person who resides in the
village.
      4.   The owner of a vicious dog shall post a warning sign, which is
readable from not less than one hundred feet (100'), in a prominent place in
front of the owner's premises, to inform the public of the presence of the
vicious dog. Such sign shall be of metal, with black letters at least two
inches (2") in height on a white background. Such sign shall state:
   WARNING: VICIOUS DOG ON PREMISES.
      5.   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away any
vicious dog unless the person receiving the dog is given a written notice that
the dog has been found to be a vicious dog.
   F.   Menacing Dogs:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, or maintain a menacing dog so
as to allow said dog to continue its menacing behavior or otherwise violate the
standards of this code.
      2.   If the police chief or designated representative finds that a dog is
menacing, said dog shall be temporarily contained within an owner's residence
or other structure to immediately alleviate the menacing behavior.
      3.   If the police chief or designated representative finds that a dog is
menacing, said dog shall be restrained by being placed within a fenced area and
under the supervision of the owner on a leash, chain, or braided wire lead,
with a tensile strength suitable to the weight of the dog, provided, that in no
event shall such dog be under the direct control and supervision of any person
under the age of sixteen (16) years. Any leash, chain, or braided wire lead
shall be sufficient to limit the movement of the menacing dog so as to prevent
the dog from getting within ten feet (10') of any adjacent property line.
   G.   Report Of Incident; Investigation:
      1.   Any person or persons who witness an incident involving a bite,
attack, or menacing behavior by any dog occurring in the village shall file a
sworn affidavit of complaint with the police department, setting out the nature
and date of the incident, the owner of the dog, the address of the owner, and a
description of the dog.
      2.   The police department, upon receipt of an affidavit of complaint,
shall investigate the complaint to determine whether the dog is menacing,
dangerous or vicious. If the police department finds that the dog is menacing,
dangerous or vicious, the owner shall be notified by certified mail of such
finding. No dog shall be found to be menacing, dangerous or vicious if the
attack or menacing behavior was directed at a person who was, at the time in
question, committing a wilful trespass or other tort upon the premises of the
owner; or was provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog; or who has
in the past provoked, tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog; or was
committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      3.   The owner of a dog found to be menacing, dangerous or vicious may,
within seven (7) days of the mailing of a notice by the police department, make
a written request to the police department for a review of such finding. Such
review shall be made by the chief of police within seven (7) days of such
request and shall be based upon the sworn affidavit of complainant and any
statements or evidence presented by the owner, witnesses to the incident,
police department personnel, or any other person possessing information
relevant to such finding. The chief of police shall issue the written findings
within five (5) days after the review, sustaining or overruling the findings
made by the police department. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
5-3-4: LOUD, CONTINUOUS, ANNOYING OR IMPULSIVE NOISES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any dog which disturbs the peace with
loud, continuous, annoying or impulsive noises at any time of the day or night.
For the purposes of this section, "impulsive noise" shall mean a sound of short
duration, usually less than one second with an abrupt onset and rapid decay.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
5-3-5: ANIMAL BITES:
   A.   Reports of dog bites shall be maintained by the police department and
the offending animal shall be maintained or impounded as required or directed
by the DuPage County rabies control regulations until the animal is deemed to
be free of disease.
   B.   A person having knowledge that any person has been bitten by a dog,
cat, or other animal shall notify the police department promptly. Failure to
notify in a prompt fashion is unlawful. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
5-3-6: DOG NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be illegal for any person having control, custody, or ownership of a
dog to allow a dog nuisance. The term "dog nuisance" shall mean:
   A.   Permitting any dog to habitually snap, growl, snarl, jump upon or
otherwise threaten persons lawfully using any common thoroughfare, sidewalk,
passageway, bypath, play area, park or any place where people congregate or
walk;
   B.   The appearance of any dog that has previously been declared dangerous,
vicious or menacing upon a public street or public area, or upon any premises
other than those of the person owning such dog that is not wearing a muzzle
securely fastened about its mouth in such a manner that it cannot bite, and is
on a leash securely fastened to a collar or harness. The overall length of the
leash including the handle shall not exceed six feet (6'), and be held by its
owner or other person able to control such dog;
   C.   A dog which, because of noise, odor, disease, or other unwholesome
factors, is offensive, harmful, or injurious to the public health, comfort, or
welfare;
   D.   The accumulation of dog feces or other dog waste in any yard, pen, or
premises in or upon which a dog shall be confined;
   E.   The failure of any person having custody, control, or ownership of a
dog to remove feces deposited from said dog, except guide dogs, upon the public
ways or within the public places of the village, or upon the premises of any
person other than the owner without the person's consent;
   F.   Permitting any dog to howl, yelp, whine, bark or make noise in such a
manner as to disturb the peace of any person or neighborhood;
   G.   Maintaining more than four (4) dogs over the age of four (4) months,
unless as a licensed kennel;
   H.   A vicious or dangerous dog that is not kept, harbored, maintained,
owned, or possessed within the corporate limits of the Village in strict
conformance with the provisions of this chapter; or
   I.   A dog otherwise in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-
2016)
5-3-7: CAT REGULATION:
No cat shall be permitted on streets or other places within the Village, except
upon the premises of the owner, without a valid, current license or tag, issued
by proper governmental authorities, indicating that the cat has been inoculated
against rabies. The Chief of Police or designee is authorized to capture,
impound, and destroy any such cats in the manner provided in section
5-3-10 of this chapter. An owner may redeem a cat which has been impounded upon
the payment of the redemption fee as set forth in section
5-3-10 of this chapter and upon proof that the animal has been or will
immediately be inoculated against rabies. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
5-3-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Unless otherwise specified, any person violating any provisions of any
section of this chapter shall be fined as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
5-3-9: WILD ANIMALS:
Wild animals are regulated by State law under 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes,
the Illinois Dangerous Animals Act.
   A.   Definition:
    WILD ANIMAL: Any species of mammal, reptile, amphibian, arachnid, or
predatory animal which is not naturally tame or gentle but is of a wild nature
or disposition, and which because it is carnivorous in its wild state, or is
poisonous, or because of its size, physical makeup, vicious nature or other
characteristics would constitute a danger to human life, domestic animals or
property, including lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay,
mountain lion, lynx, bobcat, jaguarundi, and other wild cats of the family
Felidae, hyena, bear, wolverine, badger, wolf, coyote, boar, alligator,
crocodile, and poisonous or venomous biting or injecting species of amphibian,
arachnid, or reptile or any life threatening reptile. While this definition may
encompass certain animals which may also be defined as "dangerous" under this
chapter, any animal which is of a species listed specifically shall be
considered a wild animal. Any poisonous, venomous biting or injecting species
of amphibian, arachnid or reptile or life threatening reptile shall be
considered a wild animal, and the provisions of this section regarding such
wild animals shall apply.
   B.   Prohibition Against Keeping Wild Animals: It shall be unlawful for any
person or entity to harbor or keep any wild animal in the Village, except the
provisions of this section shall not apply to any keeping of such animals in a
bona fide licensed veterinary hospital for treatment, bona fide educational
institutions, museums, circus, carnival, zoo or other event for entertainment,
which is authorized by the proper and responsible officials or officers of the
Village in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, and provided
that proper bond and/or insurance has been posted in accordance with Village
ordinances, all Federal, State, County, and local permits and licenses have
been procured and the applicant thereunder is in compliance with all Federal,
State, County, and local rules, regulations, laws and ordinances. It shall not
be a defense to a violation of this section that the person or entity violating
said section has attempted to, or has in fact, domesticated the wild animal.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for a person to harbor
or keep a wild animal in an escapeproof enclosure that is constructed and
maintained in compliance with all zoning and building regulations of the
Village, provided, that the wild animal is otherwise harbored or kept in a
manner consistent with State law.
   C.   Notice Of Keeping Of Wild Animals: Upon the written complaint of any
person that a person, firm, or corporation procured, owns, possesses, or
harbors a wild animal on premises in the Village, the Chief of Police shall
forthwith cause the matter to be investigated, and if after investigation the
facts indicate that such person, named in the complaint, is in fact the owner
or is keeping or harboring any such wild animal in the Village, the Chief of
Police shall forthwith send written notice to such person, requiring such
person to safely remove said wild animal from the Village within ten (10) days
of the date of said notice. Notice as herein provided shall not be required
where such wild animal has previously caused physical harm or death to any
person, or has escaped and is at large, in which case the Chief of Police shall
cause said wild animal to be immediately seized and impounded according to the
provisions of subsection D of this section, or killed, if seizure and
impoundment are not possible without risk of physical harm or death to any
person, domestic animal or property.
   D.   Seizure Of And Impounding Wild Animals: The Chief of Police shall
forthwith cause to be seized and impounded any wild animal where the person
owning, keeping, or harboring such animal has failed to comply with the notice
sent pursuant to subsection C of this section. Any Health Officer or any police
officer of the Village shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of
this section, including, but not limited to, taking possession of any wild
animal the officer reasonably believes is being kept, possessed, or harbored in
violation of this section. If the person in possession refuses to relinquish
possession of the wild animal the Health Officer or police officer shall so
notify the Chief of Police and the Chief of Police shall obtain an appropriate
court order, with the assistance of the Village Attorney, to obtain possession.
This section shall not be interpreted to authorize or attempt to authorize
entry into places not open to the public, without either the consent of the
owner or person in possession or warrant to other court order. Upon seizure and
impoundment, said animal may be delivered to a place of confinement for
safekeeping with a qualified zoological park, humane society, veterinary
hospital, or animal refuge for safekeeping, authorized by law to accept, own,
keep or harbor such wild animals.
   E.   Nuisance, Injunction: Any violation of this section is hereby declared
to be a nuisance. In addition to any other relief provided by this section, the
Village Attorney may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an
injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation of this section. Such
application for relief may include seeking a temporary restraining order,
preliminary injunction and/or permanent injunction, including forfeiture of the
animal for permanent disposition to a zoological or animal refuge authorized by
law to accept, keep or harbor such animals, if reasonably possible, or if not,
for destruction of said wild animal. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
   F.   Penalties: Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of
this section shall be fined as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
2016-12-28, 12-1-2016; amd. per correspondence dated 7-31-2018)
5-3-10: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION:
Any dog in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter may be impounded.
Any other animal in violation of any provisions of this chapter may be
impounded as well, if possible, and accepted by the poundmaster.
If any dangerous, fierce, or vicious animal cannot be safely taken up and
impounded, such animal may be destroyed only by a police officer.
   A.   For every animal taken up and impounded as provided herein, there shall
be paid to the poundmaster whatever fees are currently in effect based on the
duration of time the animal is impounded, as well as any necessary redemption
fees, and other costs which may be assessed.
   B.   Whenever an animal has been impounded in accordance with this chapter,
the Chief of Police or his authorized agent shall give notice to redeem of not
less than seven (7) days to the owner of such animal if known. Such notice
shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner. An affidavit or
testimony of the Chief of Police or his authorized agent who mailed such notice
shall be prima facie evidence of receipt of such notice by the owner of such
animal. In case the owner of any impounded animal desires to make redemption
thereof within the time prescribed, he may do so on the following conditions:
      1.   He/she must present proof of current rabies inoculation or he/she
must pay for the rabies inoculation; and
      2.   He/she must pay for the board of the animal for the period it has
been impounded. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
5-3-11: COSTS TO BE PAID BY RESPONSIBLE PERSONS OR ENTITIES:
Any reasonable costs incurred by the village in seizing, impounding, and/or
confining any vicious, dangerous, or wild animal shall be charged against the
person or entity who or that owns, keeps, or harbors such animal and shall be
collected by the village attorney. Such charge shall be in addition to any
fine, penalty, or equitable relief provided for violating this chapter. (Ord.
2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
5-3-12: ANIMAL CRUELTY:
   A.   A person is cruel to an animal or animals whenever they shall do, or
allow to be done under their supervision and control, any one or more of the
following to any animal:
      1.   Overloading, overworking or overdriving.
      2.   Beating, torturing, mutilating or killing.
      3.   Working any old, maimed, infirm, sick or disabled animal.
      4.   Failing to provide as owner, or otherwise responsible caretaker,
proper food, drink and shelter.
      5.   Abandoning.
      6.   Carrying, driving or keeping in a cruel manner.
      7.   Fighting or causing to fight or being a spectator at any fight
purposely started by an individual. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
CHAPTER 4
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
SECTION:
5-4-1: Offense Defined
5-4-2: Penalty
5-4-1: OFFENSE DEFINED:
Any person who knowingly engages in any of the following activities shall be
guilty of the offense of disorderly conduct:
   A.   Does an act or makes an utterance, display, or gesture in such an
unreasonable manner or offensive manner as to provoke alarm, make or aid in
making a breach of the peace.
   B.   Assembles with three (3) or more persons for unlawful purposes likely
to produce a breach of the peace.
   C.   Fails to obey a lawful order to disperse by a police officer when
knowing said person to be a police officer where one or more persons are
committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity and the public
safety is imminently threatened.
   D.   Engages in any violent, tumultuous, offensive, or disorderly conduct by
threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to fight, or fighting, or uses
obscene, offensive, profane language to the annoyance, disturbance, or vexation
of another in an effort to provoke a violent reaction. (Ord. 2005-10-42, 10-20-
2005)
5-4-2: PENALTY:
Any person found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 5
MOTOR VEHICLE TOWS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Application For Tow List
5-5-3: Investigation And Approval
5-5-4: Insurance
5-5-5: Duties And Requirements Of Tow Operators On Rotation Tow List
5-5-6: Seizure And Impoundment
5-5-7: Operation Of Rotation Tow List
5-5-8: Tow Trucks For Semitractor Trailer Vehicles
5-5-9: Removal From Rotation Tow List
5-5-10: Fees
5-5-11: Solicitation Of Business
5-5-12: Tow Truck Operation
5-5-13: Storage Facility
5-5-14: Tow Operator Personnel Qualifications
5-5-15: Violation And Penalty
5-5-16: Termination Of Rotation Tow Procedure
5-5-17: Impoundment Procedures
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
EXTENDED SERVICE: Any tow which requires the operator to perform services
beyond those required in a "normal tow". For the purpose of this definition a
"normal tow" is a tow where the vehicle's wheels are on the ground and the
vehicle may be readily towed.
HEAVY DUTY: Involving vehicles forty thousand (40,000) GVWR or heavier.
LIGHT DUTY: Involving vehicles up to, but not including, twelve thousand
(12,000) GVWR.
MEDIUM DUTY: Involving vehicles from twelve thousand (12,000) up to, but not
including, forty thousand (40,000) GVWR.
ROTATION TOW LIST: A list maintained by the Winfield police department
containing the names of those tow operators approved by the chief of police to
respond to requests by the DuComm police department dispatcher for the towing
of vehicles which are disabled where the person in charge of the vehicle has no
preference for any particular tow service or is unable to make such a decision.
The list shall also be utilized: a) to tow village owned vehicles in need of
service to a location designated by the police department; and b) to tow
vehicles impounded by the police department for evidentiary reasons.
TOW OPERATOR: A person or firm engaged in the business of, or offering the
services of, vehicle towing whereby motor vehicles are or may be towed or
otherwise removed from one place to another by use of a tow truck.
UPRIGHTING: Bringing a vehicle that is either overturned or on its side to the
upright position in tow.
WINCHING: Bringing a vehicle that is completely off of the road surface onto
the road surface for the purpose of towing. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-2: APPLICATION FOR TOW LIST:
Any person desiring to perform towing work at the request of the police
department shall submit an "application for rotation tow list" to the chief of
police. Application forms may be obtained from the police department. The tow
list application period will be from January 1 to December 1 of each year, with
the tow rotation list established and in effect from January 1 to December 31.
Each operator applying must have a completed and correct application returned
to the police department by December 1. After the list is established, an
operator on the list will only need to submit a letter of intent, update any
changed information on the application, and supply a new certificate of
insurance to reapply each year during the application period. There will be no
less than two (2) nor more than four (4) tow operators maintained on the
rotation tow list at any given time except in cases when a tow operator may be
removed temporarily from the list as defined in section
5-5-9 of this chapter. Applications shall include the following information:
   A.   Name of tow operator.
   B.   Business and home address.
   C.   Business and home phone numbers.
   D.   The name of the firm under which the tow operator will operate.
   E.   The location, size and security features of the storage lot on which
the towed vehicles will be stored.
   F.   The location to which the public must come to claim stored or impounded
vehicles.
   G.   A statement of willingness to provide full service to the police
department on a twenty four (24) hour a day basis each day of the year.
   H.   A list of towing equipment and its size and capacity.
   I.   Insurance policies.
   J.   Carriers, agents, and subcontractors that the owner would place into
effect upon approval.
   K.   A description of the communication system to be used on each tow truck
and at the office where calls are received.
   L.   A disclosure of beneficiaries statement.
   M.   Equal employment opportunity statement. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-3: INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL:
Within sixty (60) days after receiving an application for rotation tow list,
the police department shall conduct an investigation to determine the truth and
accuracy of the information contained in said application. Additionally, towing
equipment shall be inspected and if the tow operator is placed on the rotation
tow list the equipment will be inspected every six (6) months. Upon completion
of its investigation, the tow operator will either be placed on the rotation
tow list or notified in writing that the application is disapproved and state
the reasons for such disapproval. No tow operator's application shall be
disapproved unless:
   A.   The applicant has knowingly furnished false or misleading information,
or withheld relevant information on the application;
   B.   The applicant does not and will not acquire insurance as required by
section
5-5-4 of this chapter;
   C.   The applicant or any of its owners have been permanently removed from
the rotational tow list for cause pursuant to section
5-5-9 of this chapter;
   D.   The applicant fails to qualify under section
5-5-14 of this chapter;
   E.   At any time the towing equipment does not meet the standards required
by the village for towing. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-4: INSURANCE:
The tow service shall maintain, at its cost, general liability insurance
coverage for the use and operation of any truck(s) of two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($250,000.00) per person, five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) per occurrence. The tow service shall further maintain an
umbrella liability policy in the minimum amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00). The tow service shall cause the village to be named an
additional insured under all such policies. The tow service shall deliver
evidence of such insurance to the village prior to being placed on the rotation
tow list in the form of a certificate of insurance. All insurance policies
shall cover the operator, its carriers, agents and subcontractors. In addition,
the tow service shall keep in full force, at all times during the life of the
agreement, insurance coverage meeting minimum requirements as follows:
   A.   Comprehensive General Liability: Must include the following industry
standard forms of insurance:
      1.   Premises/operation coverage;
      2.   Products and completed operations coverage;
      3.   Blanket contractual liability;
      4.   Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) combined single limit,
or five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) bodily injury and two hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) property damage.
   B.   Comprehensive Auto Liability: Must include the following endorsements:
      1.   All owned autos, hired car coverage, and employers' nonowned auto
coverage;
      2.   The policy shall not contain a radius restriction of less than fifty
(50) miles;
      3.   Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) on-hook liability.
   C.   Garage Keepers' Legal Liability Or Motor Truck Cargo: The vendor shall
provide coverage for the vehicles in their custody. Either a motor truck cargo
policy, listing all storage lots as terminal locations, or garage keepers'
legal liability shall be required. The minimum amount of coverage shall be no
less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
   D.   Workers' Compensation And Employers' Liability: Statutory limits for
workers' compensation and a one hundred thousand dollar ($100,000.00)
employers' liability limit.
Each vendor shall supply the village with a certificate of insurance, which
indicates coverage for the above mentioned minimum insurance requirements which
carries the provision that said insurance shall not be canceled without giving
the village at least thirty (30) days' notice of cancellation or material
change. The certificate of insurance shall also name the village as additional
insured. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-5: DUTIES AND REQUIREMENTS OF TOW OPERATORS ON ROTATION TOW LIST:
   A.   The tow operator is responsible for providing a secured lot where the
vehicles are stored, with an office at that location and staffed during
reasonable business hours. The storage lot shall be located within five (5)
miles of the village limits.
   B.   All tow trucks shall be equipped with warning lights and all other
equipment required by state law including one or more brooms and shovels, oil-
dry chemical, one or more trash cans at least eighteen inches (18") in height,
and one fire extinguisher of a dry chemical or carbon dioxide type with an
aggregate rating of at least 4B.C units and bearing the approval of a
laboratory qualified by the division of fire prevention for this purpose; and
have working two-way communication equipment on the same commercial frequency
as the base station located at the point where calls are received. All tow
trucks shall be equipped to safely transport motorcycles.
   C.   The towing operator shall possess a valid certification from the
Illinois commerce commission.
   D.   Each tow operator shall provide twenty four (24) hour per day service
each day of the year for police related tows. There shall be an attendant or
answering service on duty at all times for the purpose of receiving calls, and
there shall be a person on call at all times for the purpose of releasing
stored vehicles or for receiving vehicles.
   E.   The tow operator shall sign an agreement to indemnify and save the
village harmless from any liability for damages sustained by vehicles by being
towed or stored and for all personal injuries occurring to any of the firms,
employees or other persons and shall maintain the required insurance policies.
   F.   Tow companies will permit vehicle owners to remove personal property as
defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-203(g): "Any personal property
belonging to the vehicle owner in a vehicle subject to a lien under this
subsection (g) shall likewise be subject to that lien, excepting only: food,
medicine, perishable property, and operator's licenses; any cash, credit cards,
or checks or checkbooks; and any wallet, purse, or other property containing
any operator's license or other identifying documents or materials, cash,
credit cards, checks or checkbooks", from vehicles stored at their facility
during business hours at no charge. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-6: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Violations Authorizing Impoundment: A motor vehicle, operated with the
permission, express or implied, of the owner of record, that is used in
connection with the following violations, shall be subject to seizure and
impoundment by the village, and the owner of record of said vehicle shall be
liable to the village for an administrative fee, as provided elsewhere in this
section, in addition to any towing and storage fees as hereinafter provided:
(Ord. 2006-11-50, 11-2-2006)
      1.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the criminal code of 1961; or
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination thereof, in violation of
section 11-501 of the vehicle code; or
      3.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the cannabis control act; or
      4.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois controlled
substances act; or
      5.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of section 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1
of the criminal code of 1961; or
      6.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of the vehicle
code; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if
the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure
to comply with emission testing; or
      7.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the cannabis control act or the Illinois controlled substances act; or
      8.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of section 6-101 of the vehicle code, if the period of
expiration is greater than one year; or
      9.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of the vehicle
code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's
license or permit due to a person's age; or
      10.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the vehicle
code; or
      11.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 or 16A of the criminal
code of 1961; or
      12.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
criminal code of 1961, when so provided by local ordinance. (Ord. 2012-08-20,
8-2-2012)
   B.   Towing And Storage Charges: The collection of towing and storage
charges from the owner or driver of the towed and/or impounded vehicle shall be
the sole responsibility of the tow operator or his employee. In addition, the
village will only be responsible for paying towing fees to a towing operator
listed on the most current version of the rotation tow list where the vehicle
in question is: 1) village owned or is a lawfully seized vehicle, after
forfeiture has been approved by a court, pursuant to the provision of chapter
4, article II of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-
201 et seq.; or 2) an abandoned vehicle that remains unclaimed and may be
disposed as junk, pursuant to the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/4-209. In no event shall the village be responsible for any storage costs for
any abandoned vehicle, as that term is defined in 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-101.05. (Ord. 2006-11-50, 11-2-2006)
   C.   Administrative Fee: The release of vehicles towed and/or impounded by
the police department requires the expenditure of village resources to properly
process. The owner of a towed and/or impounded vehicle shall pay an
administrative fee to enable the village to recover its cost for said release.
The amount of the administrative fee shall be four hundred fifty dollars
($450.00), which shall be paid at the time the vehicle is released pursuant to
section
6-5-11 of this code, during regular village business hours. (Ord. 2012-08-20,
8-2-2012)
   D.   Releasing Vehicles; Records: All tow operators on the most current
version of the rotation tow list shall maintain complete records and a system
of releasing vehicles that assures vehicles are released only to the rightful
owner, or authorized person. All records involving towing from the rotation tow
list shall be open to the police department for inspection during normal
business hours or at such time as there exists a dispute concerning the amount
or validity of any towing or storage charges. In addition, all tow operators
shall use receipt forms of a type and manner that contain adequate information
pertaining to the date, time and location of the tow, the description,
registration and VIN number of the vehicle, the charges incurred, and the
person(s) to whom the vehicle was released. (Ord. 2006-11-50, 11-2-2006)
5-5-7: OPERATION OF ROTATION TOW LIST:
The police department shall ensure that tow trucks on the rotation tow list are
called in rotation as far as is practicable. The police department shall not,
except upon request of the owner, operator or person legitimately in possession
of the vehicle to be serviced, call any tow truck not on the rotation tow list
unless all such tow trucks are unavailable. It is specifically permitted for
the police department to call a tow truck out of sequence in a life threatening
emergency where there is an urgent need for services of a tow truck in the
proximity to the location or estimated response time makes it more practical to
do so. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-8: TOW TRUCKS FOR SEMITRACTOR TRAILER VEHICLES:
A separate rotation tow list of tow trucks capable of towing semitractor
trailer vehicles shall be maintained which shall operate the same as the
standard rotation list. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-9: REMOVAL FROM ROTATION TOW LIST:
   A.   Chief Of Police To Remove: The chief of police may remove any tow
operator temporarily or permanently from the rotation tow list when he finds:
      1.   Placement on the list was secured by fraud or concealment of a
material fact, which if known would have caused disapproval of the application;
      2.   The tow operator has violated any of the provisions of this chapter;
      3.   The service provided by the tow operator has been substantially
inadequate, which shall include, but not be limited to, failing to be available
for or not accepting calls, slow response time, excessive damage claims,
repeated complaints from citizens or inadequate towing equipment.
      4.   Failing to be available or not accepting calls as mentioned in
subsection A3 of this section will be defined to mean five (5) occasions within
a thirty (30) day period.
   B.   Temporary Removal: If the removal of the tow operator from the rotation
tow list is temporary, such temporary removal shall not be for more than thirty
(30) days at any one time.
   C.   Pending Suspension/Removal: If the chief of police determines the
alleged offense does not constitute an immediate threat to the health, safety
or welfare of the public, the police chief shall provide the tow operator with
written notice at least fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date of the
temporary or permanent removal by delivering said notice to the tow operator's
place of business. Said written notice shall include: 1) the effective date of
the removal; 2) whether the removal is temporary or permanent; 3) the
allegations which form the basis of the removal; 4) the actions, if any, the
tow operator may take to prevent the removal from occurring; and 5) the
procedure which the tow operator must follow to request a hearing to appeal the
removal. If a hearing is requested, the village manager, or the village
manager's designee, shall act as the hearing officer. The hearing shall be
informal and provide both sides with the opportunity to present all evidence
relevant to the removal. The hearing officer shall issue a written decision
based upon a preponderance of the presented evidence within seven (7) days of
the hearing. The opinion will be sent to the tow operator's business address
with a copy retained in the tow operator's application file at the police
department. The municipality or the tow operator may contest the decision of
the hearing officer in any manner provided by law.
   D.   Immediate Suspension/Removal: If the chief of police determines that a
tow operator presents an immediate threat to the health, safety or welfare of
the community, or if the tow operator has not provided proof of valid insurance
in the amounts required by this chapter, the chief of police may remove the tow
operator from the tow rotation list prior to any hearing. If the chief of
police finds just cause, he shall provide written notification to the tow
operator that the tow operator is being removed from the tow rotation list
immediately. Said written notice shall be delivered to the tow operator's place
of business on the first day the removal is effective, and shall state: 1) that
the removal is effective immediately; 2) whether the removal is temporary or
permanent; 3) the allegations forming the basis of the removal; and 4) the
procedure which the tow operator must follow to request a hearing to appeal the
removal. If a hearing is requested, the Village Manager, or the Village
Manager's designee shall act as the Hearing Officer. The hearing(s) shall be
informal and provide both sides with the opportunity to present all evidence
relevant to the removal. The Hearing Officer shall issue a written decision
based upon a preponderance of the presented evidence within seven (7) days of
the hearing. The opinion shall be sent to the tow operator's business address,
with a copy retained in the tow operator's application file at the Police
Department. If the decision favors the tow operator, the Hearing Officer shall
notify the Police Department so that towing privileges may be reinstated as
soon as possible. The Village or the tow operator may contest the decision of
the Hearing Officer in any manner provided by law.
   E.   Method Of Requesting Hearing: A tow operator must request a hearing by:
1) calling the Village Manager's Office within ten (10) days of receiving a
notice of removal; and 2) scheduling a hearing. Leaving a message with the
Village Manager's Office will not satisfy this requirement. The Village
Manager's Office shall, within three (3) business days of the request, set a
date and time for the hearing, and further, the hearing shall be held within
ten (10) business days from the date of the request for the hearing. If the tow
operator is unavailable at the time provided by the Village, the Village shall
not be bound by the time period as stated above, and the removal will not be
stayed. If the Village is unable to provide a hearing within the applicable
time as stated above, all action on the removal shall be stayed until the
hearing. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-10: FEES:
The following schedule of maximum fees shall be in effect for all tows received
off the rotation tow list:
Service Description Price
Service Description                                              Price
Extra manpower for off loading, etc.:                             
 Additional cleanup fee (oil-dry, accidents)                    $35.00
 After hours release (at discretion of tow company)             35.00
 Lienholder notification fee                                    30.00
 Medium and heavy duty vehicles                                 25.00/hour
Mileage:                                                          
 Within Village limits or to storage facility designated on         No charge
  application
 To storage facility other than as designated on application:    
  First 5 miles                                                    Free
  Light duty                                                   $3.00/mile
  Medium and heavy duty vehicles                               5.00/mile
Standby:                                                          
 Light duty tow per half hour after first half hour on scene        Included
 Each additional half hour                                      $30.00
 Medium and heavy duty per truck                                50.00
Storage:                                                          
 For first 24 hours                                                 No charge
 After 24 hours:                                                 
  Light duty                                                   $ 30.00
  Light duty inside storage                                    35.00
  Medium and heavy duty                                        60.00/day
  Medium and heavy duty inside storage                         70.00/day
  Tow fee for police light duty vehicles                       50.00
Towing rates (lift or flatbed):                                   
 Heavy duty extended service tow                                275.00/hour
 Heavy duty vehicle tow                                         250.00
 Light duty vehicle tow                                         150.00
 Medium duty extended service tow                               200.00/hour
 165.00                                                          
 Service call (lockout, vehicle starting, tire changing, out of 50.00
  gas)
Winching/uprighting vehicle:                                      
 First half hour                                                75.00
 Each additional half hour                                      50.00
 
Every tow operator on the most current version of the rotation tow list shall
have a placard posted in the cab of the tow vehicle at all times that describes
available services and fees, which fees shall be as established in this
section. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, if, in the
sole and absolute opinion of a police officer at the scene, special or unusual
circumstances require an exceptional amount of extra work or equipment, the tow
operator may charge an additional reasonable fee; provided, however, that the
owner or operator of the vehicle to be serviced, if available, is first
informed of any such additional reasonable fee. In the event that the owner or
operator is not available, the fees for services shall be as established in
this section. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005; amd. Ord. 2017-12-31, 12-21-2017;
Ord. 2023-02-05, 2-16-2023)
5-5-11: SOLICITATION OF BUSINESS:
No tow operator may respond to the scene of an accident or emergency for the
purpose of towing vehicles unless called there by the Police Department or
persons involved in the accident or emergency. Tow operators responding to an
accident or emergency at the request of a person other than a police officer,
must record the name and address of the person and make such information
available to the Police Department upon request.
This section is intended only to prohibit the soliciting of business at the
scene of accidents and emergencies, and shall not be construed to prohibit any
tow operator from contracting with any person; provided, that the tow operator,
his agents and employees do not solicit tow contracts at the scene of accidents
or emergencies. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-12: TOW TRUCK OPERATION:
   A.   Every tow operator or driver of a tow truck shall remove or cause to be
removed all glass and debris deposited on any street or highway by the disabled
vehicle being serviced, and shall, in addition, spread oil-dry upon that
portion of any street or highway where oil or grease has been deposited by the
disabled vehicle being serviced. No fees for this service shall be charged
unless it is a special or unusual spill that requires special handling for its
removal.
   B.   No tow operator or driver of a tow truck shall respond to a call for
service while under the influence of intoxicants.
   C.   Towed vehicles shall be taken to such location designated by the
vehicle owner, driver or agent, should such person not wish to store the
vehicle at the tow operator's facility; provided, however, that vehicles towed
upon the direction of the Police Department shall be towed to such a place as
designated by the police officer in charge at the scene.
   D.   When a tow operator tows a vehicle pursuant to a DUI arrest, the tow
operator shall hold that vehicle in storage for twelve (12) hours or less as
stated in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-203(e) and may only then release
the vehicle to the owner or as otherwise allowed with a police release during
normal business hours. Vehicles may be impounded longer as provided for by law
by order of the arresting officer.
   E.   When a tow operator tows a vehicle pursuant to a traffic arrest or
criminal arrest, the vehicle cannot be released until the registered owner
shows a police release.
   F.   Once notified of a tow, the tow operator will provide the Police
Department an approximate time it will take to arrive at the scene of a tow. If
a tow operator is unable to respond to a tow request within twenty (20)
minutes, the tow operator or his employee shall advise the Police Department
that he is not available. The tow operator will be marked unavailable. The
police dispatcher will then call the next tow operator on the list.
   G.   When a tow truck is canceled after being dispatched off the rotation
tow list, it shall be put back at the head of the list. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-
2005)
5-5-13: STORAGE FACILITY:
Each tow operator shall maintain a secure storage lot where all towed vehicles
can be safely stored. Said lot shall be enclosed by a fence not less than six
feet (6') in height and shall have a locked gate. All storage facilities must
meet all zoning and fire ordinances and restrictions. When instructed by the
Police Department that a vehicle in storage must be secured from tampering, the
operator shall store said vehicle so that it is not accessible to any person
except upon specific approval of the tow operator or his agent. A clearance of
twenty four inches (24") must be maintained around all vehicles from the
rotation tow list calls. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-14: TOW OPERATOR PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS:
No person who has been convicted under the laws of this State or any other
state of an offense which under the laws of the State of Illinois would be a
felony theft of a vehicle or a felony offense under article 1, chapter 4 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, shall be approved as a tow operator to be placed on the
rotation tow list, nor shall any tow operator knowingly permit such a person to
operate a tow truck on the rotation tow list calls; provided, however, that a
person whose last conviction was more than four (4) years past, and who has
shown evidence of rehabilitation, may be approved if otherwise eligible.
Each tow operator shall furnish to the Police Department a complete and current
list of all drivers who may respond to rotation tow list calls. No driver shall
be permitted to respond to any rotation tow list call unless his name, date of
birth and driver's license number have been furnished to the Police Department
at least twenty four (24) hours in advance by the tow operator on forms
provided by the Police Department. (Ord. 2005-12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-15: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code for each offense. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
5-5-16: TERMINATION OF ROTATION TOW PROCEDURE:
The Village reserves the right to terminate its rotation tow procedure
unilaterally at any time without any notice and without recourse. (Ord. 2005-
12-44, 12-1-2005)
5-5-17: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice Of Impoundment; Hearing: Within ten (10) days of a vehicle being
towed or impounded pursuant to this chapter, the Village shall notify the
driver and/or owner of record, via hand delivery or certified mail, at the
address of the owner as it appears in the records of the Secretary of State, of
their entitlement to an administrative tow hearing. The hearing shall be
scheduled within thirty (30) days from the date of impoundment and be conducted
by a Hearing Officer designated by the Village Manager. The owner shall appear
at the hearing and provide evidence, testimony or documentation to whether
there was cause to tow and/or impound the vehicle for violations set forth in
subsection 5-5-6A of this chapter. All interested persons shall be given an
opportunity to be heard at the hearing. At any time prior to the hearing, the
Hearing Officer may, at the request of the Village or the owner, direct
witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing. The formal rules of
evidence shall not apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be
admissible only if it is the time commonly relied upon by reasonable prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs. The finding order shall be final and
if the Hearing Officer enters a finding of liable; the fees that have been
previously collected by the Village and tow operator, shall remain the property
of the Village and tow operator. If no fees have been collected, then the
vehicle shall remain impounded until such time that the owner of record pays
the administrative tow fee to the Village and all applicable towing and storage
charges to the tow operator. If the owner of record fails to appear at the
hearing, the Hearing Officer shall enter a default order in favor of the
Village. If the Hearing Officer finds by preponderance of the evidence that the
vehicle was not used in connection with a violation as set forth in subsection
5-5-6A of this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall order an immediate return of
the owner's vehicle or administrative fee without towing or impound fees.
   B.   Vehicle Impoundment General Regulations: When an officer has probable
cause to believe that a vehicle is subject to impoundment, the officer shall
comply with the following procedures:
      1.   Notify DuComm and request a tow for administrative impoundment.
      2.   The vehicle shall be released at the scene when a responsible,
unimpaired, licensed driver who is immediately available prior to the removal
of the vehicle from the scene, with the consent of the owner/driver.
      3.   Conduct an inventory of the vehicle in accordance with current
Winfield Police Department policy.
         a.   Digital photographs may be taken to document vehicle damage or
specialized equipment.
      4.   Complete the appropriate tow forms and have the vehicle towed to the
approved impound facility by the approved tow service.
      5.   Property of value not attached to the vehicle shall be returned to
the owner (after booking/processing) or placed in evidence for return to the
owner by an evidence custodian.
      6.   Items identified as evidence or contraband shall be processed in
accordance with Winfield police department policy.
      7.   Complete the written notice of vehicle impoundment (on file with the
police department) and provide to the driver.
      8.   Complete the arrest/processing procedures in accordance with
department policy, as outlined in general order 72A holding facility.
      9.   If the vehicle operator is not the registered owner, the owner shall
be provided a copy of the notice of vehicle impoundment (on file with the
police department) at the time of the vehicle release or via U.S. postal mail.
      10.   A completed copy of the incident reports, notice of vehicle
impoundment (on file with the police department) and a tow sheet shall be
completed and filed in the appropriate department locations.
   C.   Release Of Vehicles: Vehicle owners wishing to post bond to retrieve a
vehicle towed under this code shall be advised of the following required
payments before a vehicle can be released:
Four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) bond; payable in an acceptable currency.
Applicable towing/storage fees; payment methods shall be determined by the
authorized tow company.
      1.   Sworn officers or trained records personnel shall be authorized to
accept the appropriate bond while on duty and inside the police building.
      2.   The officer who accepts bond for the release of the vehicle will
complete the vehicle administrative impoundment bond form (on file with the
police department), collect the appropriate bond amount, and serve a copy of
the notice of vehicle impoundment (on file with the police department) upon the
owner/operator of the vehicle.
      3.   Complete the tow report form and request the vehicle information be
removed from LEADS.
      4.   Provide the vehicle owner with a copy of the tow report.
      5.   The employee collecting the bond may sign the tow report release and
provide the village hall front desk with the name and report number for the
administrative fee record. (Ord. 2012-08-20, 8-2-2012)
CHAPTER 6
FEES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Bail Bond Administrative Fees
5-6-1: BAIL BOND ADMINISTRATIVE FEES:
   A.   The Police Department shall charge a fee as provided in section
13-1-3-1 of this Code for posting bail or bond in any legal process, civil or
criminal, or on any bookable arrest, including a warrant arrest. (Ord. 2019-02-
01, 2-7-2019)
   B.   In the event the arrestee is acquitted or the case is dismissed, the
fee shall be refunded within thirty (30) days of the arrestee's written request
to the Police Department for such refund.
The Chief of Police shall develop a procedure for persons not convicted to
request a refund of the fee which procedure shall be in writing and shall be
provided to all persons arrested. (Bail bond administrative fee schedule on
file with the Police Department.) (Ord. 2012-08-23, 8-2-2012)
CHAPTER 7
FALSE ALARMS
SECTION:
5-7-1: False Alarms And Response Charges
5-7-1: FALSE ALARMS AND RESPONSE CHARGES:
   A.   When the Village's Police Department responds to a false alarm received
from the same premises or business location more than three (3) times in a
twelve (12) month period of a calendar year (January through December), which
are not due to factors beyond the control of the alarm user, the alarm user or
subscriber shall pay the Village an amount as established in section
13-1-3 of this Code for the fourth and subsequent false alarms. (Ord. 2016-12-
28, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
   B.   If payment is not received within the thirty (30) day period, as
provided above, the charge for such response shall be increased to double the
amount of the initial response charge.
   C.   If payment is not received within a one hundred twenty (120) day
period, as provided above, the charge for such response may be forwarded to the
Village's collection agency and additional collection fees as paid by the
Village may be included in the fee paid by the subscriber. (Ord. 2016-12-28,
12-1-2016)
CHAPTER 8
GAMBLING
SECTION:
5-8-1: General Provisions
5-8-2: Definitions
5-8-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Gambling Defined: A person commits gambling when he or she:
      1.   Knowingly plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing
of value, unless excepted in subsection B of this section;
      2.   Knowingly makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or any
political nomination, appointment or election;
      3.   Knowingly operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents,
sells, bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any
gambling device;
      4.   Contracts to have or give himself or herself or another the option
to buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or
other commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it
is at the time of making such contract intended by both parties thereto that
the contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof; however,
the issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through
a person registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to section 8 of the
Illinois Securities Law of 1953, or by or through a person exempt from such
registration under said section 8, of a put, call, or other option to buy or
sell securities which have been registered with the Secretary of State or which
are exempt from such registration under section 3 of the Illinois Securities
Law of 1953 is not gambling within the meaning of this subsection A4;
      5.   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he has received in the course of a bet or
wager;
      6.   Knowingly sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of
skill or chance, political nomination, appointment or election;
      7.   Knowingly sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      8.   Knowingly sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to
sell or knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record,
document or other similar device;
      9.   Knowingly drafts, prints or publishes any lottery ticket or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or foreign
government;
      10.   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state;
      11.   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this subsection A11
prohibits transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting
of sporting events or contests; or
      12.   Knowingly establishes, maintains, or operates an internet site that
permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of
value by means of the internet or to make a wager upon the result of any game,
contest, political nomination, appointment, or election by means of the
internet. This subsection A12 does not apply to activities referenced in
subsection B6 of this section.
   B.   Exceptions: Participants in any of the following activities shall not
be convicted of gambling:
      1.   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance.
      2.   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants in
any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest.
      3.   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this State.
      4.   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this State when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable Federal law; or the
manufacture, distribution, or possession of video gaming terminals, as defined
in the Video Gaming Act, by manufacturers, distributors, and terminal operators
licensed to do so under the Video Gaming Act.
      5.   The game commonly known as "bingo", when conducted in accordance
with the Bingo License and Tax Act.
      6.   Lotteries when conducted by the State of Illinois in accordance with
the Illinois Lottery Law. This exemption includes any activity conducted by the
Department of Revenue to sell lottery tickets pursuant to the provisions of the
Illinois Lottery Law and its rules.
         a.   The purchase of lottery tickets through the internet for a
lottery conducted by the State of Illinois under the program established in
section 7.12 of the Illinois Lottery Law.
      7.   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this subsection B7, an antique slot
machine is one manufactured twenty five (25) years ago or earlier.
      8.   Raffles and poker runs when conducted in accordance with the Raffles
and Poker Runs Act.
      9.   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with the Charitable
Games Act.
      10.   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under the Illinois Pull Tabs
and Jar Games Act.
      11.   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized by the
Riverboat Gambling Act.
      12.   Video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment, or licensed
veterans establishment when conducted in accordance with the Video Gaming Act.
      13.   Savings promotion raffles authorized under section 5g of the
Illinois Banking Act, section 7008 of the Savings Bank Act, section 42.7 of the
Illinois Credit Union Act, section 5136B of the National Bank Act (12 USC 25a),
or section 4 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 USC 1463). (Ord. 2018-03-05, 3-1-
2018)
   C.   Penalty: The penalty for each violation of this section shall be as
provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
5-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
GAMBLING DEVICE: Is any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost. A "gambling device" includes sweepstakes kiosks or electronic
product promotions sweepstake kiosks. A "gambling device" does not include:
   A.   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property.
   B.   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
   C.   A crane game. For the purposes of this subsection C, a "crane game" is
an amusement device involving skill, if it rewards the player exclusively with
merchandise contained within the amusement device proper and limited to toys,
novelties and prizes other than currency, each having a wholesale value which
is not more than twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   D.   A redemption machine. For the purposes of this subsection D, a
"redemption machine" is a single- player or multi-player amusement device
involving a game, the object of which is throwing, rolling, bowling, shooting,
placing, or propelling a ball or other object that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights into, upon, or against a hole or
other target that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights, or stopping, by physical, mechanical, or electronic means, a moving
object that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights into, upon, or against a hole or other target that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights, provided that all of the
following conditions are met:
         1. The outcome of the game is predominantly determined by the skill of
the player.
        2. The award of the prize is based solely upon the player's achieving
the object of the game or otherwise upon the player's score.
         3. Only merchandise prizes are awarded.
         4. The wholesale value of prizes awarded in lieu of tickets or tokens
for single play of the device does not exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00).
         5. The redemption value of tickets, tokens, and other representations
of value, which may be accumulated by players to redeem prizes of greater
value, for a single play of the device does not exceed twenty five dollars
($25.00).
   E.   Video gaming terminals at a licensed establishment, licensed truck stop
establishment, licensed fraternal establishment, or licensed veterans
establishment licensed in accordance with the Video Gaming Act.
LOTTERY: Is any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name, excluding savings promotion raffles authorized
under section 5g of the Illinois Banking Act, section 7008 of the Savings Bank
Act, section 42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act, section 5136B of the
National Bank Act (12 USC 25a), or section 4 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12
USC 1463).
POLICY GAME: Is any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt.
SWEEPSTAKES KIOSK OR ELECTRONIC PRODUCT PROMOTIONS SWEEPSTAKE KIOSK: Means any
electronic video machine which, upon the insertion of payment, is used to
purchase a bona fide product from a sponsor and offers or awards a prize as a
means to promote that sponsor that includes the option to insert payment and
play a game of chance for money. (Ord. 2018-03-05, 3-1-2018)
TITLE 6
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
6-1-2: Traffic Safety Report
6-1-3: Truck Traffic
6-1-4: Permit Required For Movement Of Overweight And Overdimension Vehicles
6-1-5: Block Parties; Street Closures
6-1-6: Corner Setback Areas; Right-Of-Way Obstructions
6-1-6-1: Corner Setback Area Defined
6-1-6-2: Prohibition Of Obstructions In Corner Setback Area
6-1-6-3: Prohibition Of Obstructions In Public Right-Of-Way Traffic Areas
6-1-6-4: Enforcement
6-1-6-5: Nuisance Abatement; Prohibited Obstructions
6-1-6-6: Penalty
6-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   The provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 , as now existing or
hereafter amended, except for those provisions which by their nature can have
no application to the Village, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this chapter with the same force and effect as if set forth at length
herein. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of
the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   B.   Citations for violations of the aforesaid chapters of the Illinois
Vehicle Code adopted by reference herein may be issued by authorized personnel
of the Village, using the appropriate Illinois Vehicle Code section which
shall, by the effect of this section, represent identically and specifically
numbered sections of the Winfield Village Code.
   C.   Without limiting the generality of subsection A of this section:
      1.   The following provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as may be
amended from time to time, are hereby expressly adopted by reference pursuant
to the authority granted in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-204: sections
11-501, 11-501.1, 11-501.2, 11-501.4, 11-501.4-1, 11-501.5, 11-501.6, 11-501.7
and 11-501.8, excepting section 11-501(d).
Reference to this section can be made in the following manner: Winfield Village
Code, title 6, chapter 1, section
6-1-1, followed by the applicable Illinois Vehicle Code section number, e.g.,
section
6-1-1 of the Winfield Village Code/IVC 11-501(a).
      2.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection C3 of this section, the
court, upon making a finding of guilty for any offense under this subsection,
in addition to any sentencing alternative selected by the court, shall impose a
fine of not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such
offense. In the event the Illinois Vehicle Code imposes a minimum fine greater
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for such an offense, the statutory
fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) may be imposed by the court.
(Ord. 2013-01-03, 1-24-2013)
      3.   With respect to vehicle equipment compliance violations, upon making
a finding of guilty, the court or the Administrative Hearing Officer shall
impose a fine in accordance with the fine schedule set forth in section
13-1-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2013-01-03, 1-24-2013; amd. per correspondence dated
7-31-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
6-1-2: TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT:
The Police Department shall, annually, prepare a traffic report which shall be
filed with the Village President. Such report shall contain information on
traffic matters in the Village as follows:
   A.   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured and other pertinent traffic accident data.
   B.   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent data
on the safety activities of the police.
   C.   The plans and recommendations of the department for future traffic
safety activities. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
6-1-3: TRUCK TRAFFIC:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   Terms used and rules referred to in this section have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 .
      2.   In addition to the terms defined in the Illinois vehicle code, for
purposes of this section, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context
clearly indicates a different sense, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings defined in this section:
    CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT STREETS: Certain streets or sections of streets,
as specified in this section, shall be known as central business district (CBD)
streets as follows:
         a.   Jewell Road, between Winfield Road and Highlake Road.
         b.   Winfield Road, between Fleming Drive and the Winfield Creek
Bridge.
         c.   Highlake Road, between Jewell Road and the west branch of the
DuPage River Bridge.
         d.   Beecher Avenue, between Church Street and Park Street.
         e.   Church Street, between Liberty Street and Highlake Road.
   RESIDENTIAL STREETS: Those streets located within the village which are
predominately of a residential character and which include all streets within
the village except those streets specifically listed and identified as "truck
routes" and central business streets, as defined herein.
   TRUCK ROUTES: Those streets located within or adjacent to the village on
which truck or other heavy vehicle traffic is allowed to pass through the
village and which consist of the following streets:
         a.   Roosevelt Road (Illinois Route 38).
         b.   St. Charles Road.
         c.   Geneva Road.
         d.   Illinois Route 59.
         e.   Prince Crossing Road.
         f.   County Farm Road. (Ord. 89-4-1, 4-13-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
         g.   (Rep. by Ord. 2000-6-16, 6-1-2000)
         h.   Highlake Road; west of the west branch of the DuPage River
Bridge.
         i.   Winfield Road; south of Roosevelt Road (Illinois Route 38).
   B.   Operation Of Trucks On Residential And Central Business Streets
Prohibited:
      1.   Prohibition: No person shall operate or cause to be operated a
second division motor vehicle licensed for a gross weight including vehicle and
maximum load of twelve thousand one (12,001) pounds or more or motorized
equipment licensed for a gross weight of twelve thousand one (12,001) pounds or
more on any residential or central business street, except as provided in
subsection B2 of this section.
      2.   Exceptions: The prohibition in subsection B1 of this section shall
not prohibit:
         a.   Emergency Vehicles: The operation of emergency vehicles upon
residential and central business district streets;
         b.   Public Utilities: The operation of vehicles owned or operated by
the village, public utilities, or any contractor or material person while
engaged in the repair, maintenance or construction of streets, village owned
utilities or privately owned utilities within the village or vehicles owned or
operated by other public bodies, public utilities or any contractor or material
person while traveling to or from streets, public or private utilities or
facilities owned and maintained by such other public body or utility where the
only access to such utilities or facilities owned and maintained by the other
public body or utility is over village residential streets;
         c.   Local Destination Or Origination: The operation of vehicles upon
residential and central business streets where necessary to the conduct of
business or the service of an occupant at a destination or origination point
within the village and requiring travel on residential and central business
streets or within another municipality or unincorporated area where the only
access thereto is over village residential and/or central business streets; and
         d.   Detoured Vehicles: The operation of vehicles upon residential and
central business streets which are officially established as a detour for a
truck route.
      3.   Enforcement:
         a.   Street Maps: The village manager shall keep and maintain accurate
maps showing the location of truck routes, residential and central business
streets.
         b.   Maps Available To The Public: The map shall be kept on file in
the office of the village manager, and shall be made available to the public.
         c.   Signs Posted: All streets upon which truck traffic is prohibited
(residential and central business streets) shall be clearly posted at points of
entry from truck routes to the village to give notice that this section is in
effect.
         d.   Failure To Post: No person shall be charged with violating the
provision of this subsection by reason of operating a motor vehicle or
motorized equipment contrary to the prohibition contained in this subsection on
a residential street unless appropriate signs are posted on such street or
along the route traveled by the vehicle.
      4.   Penalty: Any violation of this subsection shall be punishable by a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for the first offense. Persons having been convicted of this
violation more than once shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per offense. (Ord. 89-4-
1, 4-13-1989, eff. 5-1-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
6-1-4: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR MOVEMENT OF OVERWEIGHT AND OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES:
   A.   Permit Required; Exemptions: Permits shall be required for the movement
of any vehicle and/or nondivisible load (one which cannot be reasonably
disassembled) or combination of vehicles on roadways and bridges within the
jurisdiction of the village not in conformance with the limitations and
regulations stated in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-102 (width), 5/15-103
(height), 5/15-107 (length), and 5/15-111 (weight).
The permit is not valid on any highway or bridge posted for a load limit less
than the gross weight of the move, on any highway closed to traffic, and on any
highway not under the jurisdiction of the village of Winfield. In an emergency
declared by resolution of the village board, the requirement to obtain permits
may be waived.
Exempt from permits are the following:
      1.   Fire department vehicles;
      2.   Those vehicles operating under an emergency declaration;
      3.   Village owned vehicles engaged in emergency utility repair;
      4.   Equipment used for snow and ice removal owned, operated or
contracted by any governmental body.
   B.   Conditions Of Permit: Permits shall be issued only in the name of a
person, firm, business or corporation that owns and operates the transporting
vehicle or that operates the vehicle under a bona fide lease agreement. The
permit is nontransferable and applies only to the permittee.
All applications for permits shall be given full consideration. Permits for
proposed moves may be issued:
      1.   When the village roadways and bridges will not be unduly damaged;
and
      2.   When the safety of the traveling public will be adequately
protected.
Application for a permit to move an oversized and/or overweight vehicle, and/or
load, must be made to the village of Winfield. Permits shall be applied for
during normal business hours of the Winfield police department. Applicants are
urged to contact the village promptly to ensure the proper paperwork is in
place (including, but not limited to, security bond, certificates of insurance,
etc.). Permits shall be applied for with a minimum of seventy two (72) hours'
advance notice to the village of Winfield. The following information should be
included on the permit:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of the applicant and the applicant's
business name, address and phone number;
      2.   Whether the permit is for a single trip, round trip or for multiple
moves;
      3.   Whether the applicant is an authorized carrier under the Illinois
motor carrier of property law and if so, the registration and certificate
number issued by the Illinois commerce commission;
      4.   The description of the vehicle and/or load making the move;
      5.   The route, including points of origin and destination;
      6.   Whether the vehicle and/or load are being transported for hire;
      7.   The Illinois department of transportation's state permit number and/
or the DuPage County department of transportation permit number;
      8.   The vehicle's and/or trailer's registration number, state and year.
The village of Winfield may issue revisions to permits:
      1.   To correct an error attributed to the village;
      2.   To correct an error attributed to the applicant, discovered before
the move;
      3.   To adjust weights, dimensions or routes as issued on the permit
before the move is made.
Any revisions made at the request of the permittee for purposes of changing
weights, dimensions, routes or load description shall be made before any move
is made at a cost of ten dollars ($10.00) per permit.
   C.   Permit Regulations: The permit, when issued, constitutes an agreement
between permittee and the village of Winfield that the move described in the
application will take place only as described. The permittee has the
responsibility to report to the village any inaccuracies or errors on the part
of either the village or the permittee before starting any move. Undertaking
the move shall constitute acceptance by the permittee of the permit as issued
and its terms.
The route prescribed in the permit constitutes the sole extent of the authority
granted by the permit for the use of village roads, and any vehicle and/or load
found to be off route will be considered off route and without a permit.
Permits shall be in the driver's possession at all times unless otherwise
directed by the village of Winfield, and presented upon demand to any and all
police officers for the purpose of inspection.
If required, arrangement shall be made by the permittee to have the proper
utilities notified, property moved, bridges or highways analysis performed and
completed in advance of any permit movement. All movements under the permit
shall be made in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations.
Insofar as practicable, movements shall be confined to a single traffic lane
and shall be made in such a manner that the rest of the roadway will be open at
all times so the flow of other traffic will not unnecessarily be obstructed.
Also insofar as practicable, other traffic will be given the right of way over
this movement. The driver shall remove the vehicle from the roadway when
necessary to allow an accumulation of traffic to pass or when so directed by a
police officer.
Movements are authorized from one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise to one-half
(1/2) hour after sunset, Monday through Friday, and from one-half (1/2) hour
before sunrise until twelve o'clock (12:00) noon, Saturday. Movements are
prohibited on specified holidays. Movements are further restricted beginning at
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon the day preceding the holiday or beginning at
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon the Friday before the holiday weekend, including
holidays that fall on a Monday. The specified holidays are: New Year's Day,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
Movements shall not be made when visibility is unduly impaired by rain, snow,
fog, smog, or at any time travel conditions are considered to be unsafe by the
Winfield police department. Movements shall not be made when highway is covered
with snow or ice.
The extremities of all oversize vehicles, vehicle combinations and/or loads,
and all protruding objects shall be marked with clean red flags not less than
eighteen inches (18") square.
   D.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
apply:
LIMITED CONTINUOUS USE MOVEMENTS: Movements generally to one site over a period
of three (3) months made by overdimension vehicles which do not exceed the
weight limits specified within this section. Limited continuous use permits may
be issued for up to ten (10) trips generally to the same site during the time
period allowed. Limited continuous use permits are not available for overweight
vehicles.
MULTIPLE MOVES: Those in such close proximity to each other in distance or in
time, that the village would consider incorporating two (2) or more permit
moves as one move. Multiple move permits, when granted by the village, shall be
for a period of time not to exceed thirty (30) days from the date of issuance.
Multiple moves must be identified prior to obtaining a permit. When required,
police escorts shall be used for each of the multiple moves.
ONE-WAY OR SINGLE TRIP MOVEMENT: One move from the point of origin to the point
of destination. Any additional stops between the point of origin and the point
of destination are expressly prohibited. Single trip permits are valid for five
(5) consecutive days from date of issuance unless otherwise directed by the
village of Winfield.
ROUND TRIP MOVEMENT: Two (2) trips over the same route in opposite directions.
Round trip permits are valid for ten (10) consecutive days from the date of
issuance.
   E.   Police Escorts: Police escorts are required for certain vehicles and
loads as indicated in the fee schedule herein. The total number of police
officers necessary to provide for a safe move shall be determined by the
village based upon the size and weight of the permit move. Fees for escorts
shall be in addition to the permit fees set forth herein. Fees for said escort
shall be forty dollars ($40.00) an hour per police officer assigned and shall
provide for a minimum of two (2) hours of service.
   F.   Liability: The permittee shall assume total liability for any and all
damages to streets, bridges, village owned appurtenances and private or public
property while engaged in a permit movement. The measure of liability is the
cost for all repairs or the cost of replacement of property damaged beyond
repair together with all other expenses incurred by the authorities in control
of the highway structure in providing a temporary detour, including a temporary
structure, to serve the needs of traffic during the period of repair or
replacement of the damaged highway or highway structure by the permittee. The
applicant(s) must provide a cash bond in the amount of two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) in a certified or cashier's check made in favor of
the village of Winfield, or in lieu of a cash bond, at the discretion of the
village, provide a valid license and permit bond, with a surety approved by the
village, in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to cover any
damages to village roadways, bridges or property. If a portion of the bond must
be used to pay for such damages, no future applications for permits under this
section will be considered until restitution is made and a new bond issued.
Bonds are returnable within ten (10) days after request provided there are no
outstanding permits or debts to the village. No further permits shall be issued
to said applicant without redeposit of such bonds. The permittee's liability
for any damages shall not be limited by the amount of the bond.
Whenever such driver is not the owner of such vehicle, object, or contrivance,
but is so operating, driving, or moving the same with the express or implied
permission of the owner, then the owner and driver are jointly and severally
liable to the extent provided herein this subsection.
   G.   Insurance: The permittee shall indemnify and hold harmless the village
from any costs, judgments or settlements, including attorney fees, arising from
physical injuries, including loss of life, or damage to or loss of property
related to acts or omissions by permittee, its officers, agents or employees,
pursuant to the permit. Upon application for a permit(s), each applicant shall
provide evidence of a valid comprehensive general liability insurance policy,
with an insurance company approved by the village, for protection against
personal injury or property damage, in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence. The village shall be named as an additional,
noncontributory coinsured on all policies of insurance. The village shall
receive written notice of cancellation or reduction in coverage of any
insurance policy thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of cancellation
or reduction. The permittee will be responsible for obtaining new insurance
coverage in this event.
In addition, the permittee shall carry, at its own expense, at least the
following insurance coverage:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance:
         a.   Bodily injury, personal injury, and property damage with limits
of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each occurrence/two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate.
         b.   Contractual insurance - broad form, with limits of not less than
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each occurrence/two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) aggregate.
      2.   Business automobile liability: One million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
combined single limit per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
   H.   Denial Of Permit: Permits are void if altered for the purpose of
deception. The permits issued under this section constitute the grant of a
privilege by the village and may be denied, suspended or revoked after notice
to the permittee and an opportunity to be heard, for such reasons as the
village may deem rationally related to its governmental interests including,
but not limited to:
      1.   A permittee knowingly providing incorrect information in an
application for a permit;
      2.   A permittee, its agents or employees acting on a permit which has
been altered for purposes of deception;
      3.   Noncompliance by permittee, its agents or employees with federal,
state or local laws pertaining to the transport of goods or operation of a
vehicle engaged in the transport of goods;
      4.   Moving on village streets without a valid permit as is required
under this section.
In addition to other remedies the village may seek, a permittee, its officers,
agents or employees found guilty of moving an overdimension or overweight
vehicle and/or load on village streets on a permit altered for purposes of
deception, or without a valid permit as required by this section, shall be
subject to a fine, as hereinafter provided, for each day during which a move
was so made.
Suspension or revocation of a current permit shall be for the time determined
appropriate by the village; however, reinstatement may be made upon conditions
determined by the village and payment of all outstanding settlements or
judgments. The charges for reinstatement are:
 
Denial    No charge
Suspended $50.00
Revoked   75.00
 
The village of Winfield police department shall administer and enforce this
section and shall have the authority to grant, deny, suspend, revoke and
reinstate permits. Suspended permits shall be reinstated for good cause shown
to the Winfield police department and shall be charged a fifty dollar ($50.00)
fee to reinstate the existing permit. Revoked permits, if reinstated for good
cause shown to the Winfield police department, shall require a seventy five
dollar ($75.00) fee as well as the standard application fees. Any applicant or
permit holder who receives a notice of denial, revocation, or suspension may
file an appeal with the village manager as provided herein. Such appeal shall
be filed with the village manager in writing no later than ten (10) business
days following receipt of the notice, and shall include a response to the
notice. Such response shall include a brief statement addressing the
substantive deficiencies cited in the notice and shall set forth the basis for
why the license or permit should not be denied, revoked, or suspended. If an
appeal is filed of an order of the police department suspending or revoking an
application or permit, such suspension or revocation shall be stayed pending
final order of the village manager, as provided in this section.
Upon filing of an appeal by the applicant or permit holder, the village manager
shall convene a hearing, with no less than fifteen (15) days' written notice to
the individual, and shall hear the appeal and shall accept such evidence and
hear such testimony from involved village staff, the applicant or permit
holder, and such other interested parties as may have relevant information to
offer regarding the case. The village manager, following the hearing, shall
make a finding based upon the testimony and evidence submitted and if the
village manager determines that the violation(s) or reasons for denial,
suspension, or revocation occurred, the manager shall then deny such applicant
or suspend or revoke the existing permit, effective immediately. A copy of such
order shall be served upon the applicant or permit holder by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the applicant or permit holder at the business or
home address identified in the latest application or renewal form on file with
the village.
The decision of the village manager as provided in this paragraph shall be the
final administrative action of the village with respect to the permit or
application, and shall be subject to the immediate appeal by the permit holder
or applicant to the circuit court. Such appeal to the circuit court shall be
filed no later than thirty five (35) days following receipt of the village
manager's findings and order. Failure to file such an appeal as provided herein
shall render the village manager's decision final.
Permit Fees: The village, with respect to highways under the village's
jurisdiction, shall collect a fee as shown herein from applicants for the
issuance of a permit to operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicle(s),
and/or loads, which fit the categories shown below:
FEE SCHEDULE
       TABLE A
 
Permit Size               Single Trip Round Trip Multiple
Gross weight (with load):                       
    Up to 88,000 pound$ 50.00     $ 75.00    $150.00
    88,001 - 100,000  75.00       100.00     175.00
    100,001 - 120,000 100.00      125.00     225.00
    120,001 - 150,0002125.00      150.00     300.00
    Over 150,0001,2   125.00      150.00     300.00
 
      TABLE B
 
Permit Size        Single Trip Round Trip Multiple
Width (with load):                       
    Up to 12'  $ 50.00     $ 75.00    $150.00
    12'1" - 13'75.00       100.00     175.00
    Over 13'6" 75.00       100.00     175.00
 
      TABLE C
 
Permit Size         Single Trip Round Trip Multiple
Height (with load):                       
    13'6" - 14'6$ 50.00     $ 75.00    $150.00
    Over 14'6" 150.00       75.00      150.00
 
      TABLE D
 
Permit Size         Single Trip Round Trip Multiple
Length (with load):                       
    Up to 75'   $ 50.00     $ 75.00    $150.00
    75'1" - 100'75.00       100.00     175.00
    Over 100' 1,75.00       100.00     175.00
 
   Notes:
       1.    In order to prevent damage to village streets or disruption of
traffic, the village may require a special permit before authorizing the
applicant to operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or
weight specified or otherwise not in conformity with the provisions of this
section upon any roads under the jurisdiction of the village if such load is
composed of a single object that cannot reasonably be dismantled or
disassembled. These special permits may require additional administrative,
engineering, and road damage fees.
       2.    Vehicles shall require a police escort. The number of police
escorts shall be determined by the village based on the density of the area and
other safety concerns at the sole discretion of the village. The fees for each
escort shall be $40.00 per officer per hour and a minimum of 2 hours' payment
is required.
If a vehicle requires a permit due to multiple weight and/or dimensions issues,
the total fee shall be based on the largest individual weight or dimension
factor only.
   J.   Drawn Accounts: A drawn down account, or escrow account, can be
established by the permit applicant for the purposes of depositing money for
use, as needed, to be automatically withdrawn upon request of the applicant for
payment of permit fees. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
maintain a current balance in their draw down account to cover any and all fees
for permit requests.
   K.   Temporary Load Limits: In order to prevent potential damage to village
streets and bridges, the village manager shall have the power to impose
temporary vehicle load limits on streets or portions thereof, in order to allow
the village engineer time to investigate the situation. Any such temporary
limitation shall be reviewed as soon as possible by the village board of
trustees at their next regular meeting.
The village manager shall have the power to limit temporarily the use of
streets or portions thereof to certain types of vehicles and shall post or have
posted in conspicuous places signs showing the limitations thus imposed.
   L.   Penalty: In addition to other village remedies set forth herein, any
person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to a fine of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and each day that the violation occurs or
continues shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2002-9-39, 9-5-2002)
6-1-5: BLOCK PARTIES; STREET CLOSURES:
Upon receipt of an application for a block party or similar event, not less
than thirty (30) days before the proposed event, the village manager, after
consultation with the chief of police, may authorize a permit to allow the
temporary closure of specific streets to general traffic for the event. The
permit shall be valid only for a specific period of time, which shall be set
forth in the permit. The applicant shall be responsible for the payment of any
costs incurred by the village in providing equipment or services for the event,
and said payment shall be made prior to the issuance of the permit. The permit
application shall be denied if, in the reasonable discretion and determination
of the village manager or the chief of police, the proposed closure of the
specific streets would have a materially adverse effect on the free flow of
traffic in the area adjacent to the event or would otherwise jeopardize the
health, safety or welfare of the village or its residents. (Ord. 2005-02-01, 2-
3-2005)
6-1-6: CORNER SETBACK AREAS; RIGHT OF WAY OBSTRUCTIONS:
6-1-6-1: CORNER SETBACK AREA DEFINED:
   A.   At the intersection of any village street improved for public traffic,
there shall be a corner setback area. The corner setback area shall be
established using the measurements found in figure 1 of this section. The
village's setback areas reflect the different classifications of streets in the
community, and the concomitant maximum speeds of traffic that may be found on
the particular street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2150.gif]
   B.   The village manager shall designate each street within the corporate
limits of the village as a local, collector or arterial street for the purpose
of this code, which shall be on file in the office of the village clerk. The
following definitions shall apply to said designations:
ARTERIAL STREETS: Designated state of Illinois or DuPage County routes or major
village streets that allow traffic movement between area service highways and
state routes, and roads of lesser importance. They serve as principal routes
between retail, commercial, and industrial sites. The typical width of arterial
streets is in excess of fifty feet (50').
COLLECTOR STREETS: Connect residential subdivisions and gather traffic from
local streets and channel it onto the arterial road network. The typical
pavement width of a collector street is between thirty six (36) to forty eight
feet (48').
LOCAL STREETS: Provide direct access to adjacent properties and are most
commonly found within residential subdivisions. The typical width of a local
street is less than thirty six feet (36'). (Ord. 2007-8-43, 8-16-2007)
6-1-6-2: PROHIBITION OF OBSTRUCTIONS IN CORNER SETBACK AREA:
The corner setback area shall be maintained free of sight distance obstructions
to promote safe movement of vehicle, bicycle and pedestrian traffic through the
intersection. It shall be a violation of this Code for any property owner or
other responsible party to maintain trees, shrubs or other landscaping elements
or to erect, or cause to be erected, any obstruction such as a fence, awning,
sign, or other structure that is at a height greater than thirty inches (30")
above the top of the adjacent curb grade, or at a height greater than thirty
six inches (36") above the nearest pavement surface where there are no curbs.
(Ord. 2007-8-43, 8-16-2007)
6-1-6-3: PROHIBITION OF OBSTRUCTIONS IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY TRAFFIC AREAS:
The public right-of-way traffic area shall be maintained free of sight and
mobility obstructions to promote safe movement of vehicle, bicycle and
pedestrian traffic. The public right-of- way traffic area shall also be
maintained free of obstructions which adversely affect improvements installed
to facilitate the movement of vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians or adversely
affect public utility mains, service laterals and other appurtenances. (Ord.
2007-8-43, 8-16-2007)
6-1-6-4: ENFORCEMENT:
When any prohibited obstruction as defined in this Code exists, a notice shall
be sent by the Police Chief or his/her designated representative, by first
class United States mail to the owner or responsible party. Such notice shall
describe the condition, state the work necessary to remedy the condition, and
specify the time within which the necessary work must be performed. Failure of
the property owner or responsible party to correct such condition within the
specified time shall be deemed a violation of this Code. (Ord. 2007-8-43, 8-16-
2007)
6-1-6-5: NUISANCE ABATEMENT; PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Any manmade or geologic features that pose obstructions as defined in
this Code are hereby grandfathered.
   B.   Notwithstanding the above provisions, if the owner or responsible party
fails to abate any of the obstructions described in this Code in a timely
manner or the condition is a recurring one requiring undue Village personnel
time to monitor and correct, the Police Chief or designee may invoke the
procedures to abate a nuisance pursuant to this Code, including summary
abatement of a condition that causes or constitutes an imminent or immediate
danger to the health, welfare or safety of the public or interferes with or
jeopardizes the public's use of any street, sidewalk, path or right-of-way
through the use of Village or contractual forces. (Ord. 2007-8-43, 8-16-2007)
6-1-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section
6-1-6, shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code for any offense. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 2
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
6-2-1: No Parking Places
6-2-2: General Parking Restrictions
6-2-3: Parking Restrictions Or Prohibitions On Certain Streets
6-2-4: Method Of Parking
6-2-5: Passenger And Freight Loading Zones
6-2-6: Municipal Parking
6-2-1: NO PARKING PLACES:
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
         b.   On a sidewalk.
         c.   Within an intersection.
         d.   On a crosswalk.
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the traffic authority indicates a different length by signs or markings.
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
         h.   On any railroad tracks.
         i.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
         j.   On the left side of a two-way street.
         k.   In any parking space, including private or public off street
parking facility, specifically reserved by the posting of an official sign for
motor vehicles bearing registration plates or decals issued to a handicapped
person or to a disabled veteran unless the motor vehicle bears registration
plates or decals issued to a handicapped person or to a disabled veteran. (Ord.
689, 4-25-1985)
         l.   On a front, side or back yard area, unless parked on an improved
surface, as defined in subsection 10-9-4H8c(1)(D) of this code. (Ord. 2014-12-
41, 12-18-2014)
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, if unoccupied:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway.
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
         c.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
         d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance (when properly signposted).
         f.   At any place where official signs or yellow painted curbs
prohibit standing.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing.
         b.   At any place where official signs or yellow painted curbs
prohibit parking.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as is unlawful. (Ord.
507, 2-9-1978)
6-2-2: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking Not To Obstruct Traffic: No person shall park any vehicle upon
a street, other than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free
movement of vehicular traffic.
   B.   Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
   C.   All Night Parking 1 : No person shall park a vehicle on any street or
along or upon any right of way of any public street for a period of time longer
than thirty (30) minutes between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any day; except, that division I vehicles may park on
streets twenty four feet (24') or more in width during those hours but only on
the side of the street posted to allow such parking.
      1.   Exemptions: Any resident who may require permission to leave a
vehicle on a village roadway during the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. must:
         a.   Contact the village of Winfield police department at 630-933-7160
or submit the request using the village online form prior to two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. of the day requested. Permission will be granted unless the vehicle will
cause a hazardous road condition, interfere with village operations or exceed
the allowable number of requests.
         b.   Requests receiving permission are limited to three (3) requests
within a thirty (30) day period.
         c.   No overnight parking permission will be granted when there are
two (2) or more inches of snowfall. (Ord. 2014-08-29, 8-21-2014)
   D.   Narrow Streets: No person shall park upon any street when the width of
the roadway does not exceed twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 625, 8-26-1982)
   E.   Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited:
      1.   Washing Or Repair: No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway
or along or upon any right of way of any public street for the principal
purpose of washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
      2.   Vehicles For Sale; Selling Merchandise: No person shall park or
permit the parking of any automobile, truck, trailer, tractor or any similar
vehicle along or upon any roadway or street or along or upon any right of way
of any public street for the purpose of displaying such vehicle for sale, or to
park any vehicle from which merchandise is being sold. Such vehicles may only
be placed for display on the driveway of private property. (Ord. 2003-11-56,
11-6-2003)
   F.   Adjacent To Schools: The village president and board of trustees are
hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon either or both
sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such parking would, in
his opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side of a
street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no person shall
park a vehicle in any such designated place.
   G.   One-Way Streets And Roadways:
      1.   One-Way Streets: The village president and board of trustees are
authorized to erect signs upon the left hand side of any one-way street to
prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles, and when such signs are in place,
no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon such left hand side in violation
of any such sign.
      2.   One-Way Roadways: In the event a highway includes two (2) or more
separate roadways and traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such
roadway, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon the left hand side of
such one-way roadway unless signs are erected to permit such standing or
parking. The president and board of trustees are authorized to determine when
standing or parking may be permitted upon the left hand side of any such one-
way roadway and to erect signs giving notice thereof.
   H.   Hazardous Or Congested Places: The president and board of trustees are
hereby authorized to determine and designate by proper signs, places not
exceeding one hundred feet (100') in length in which the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as authorized
herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such designated
place.
   I.   Bus And Taxicab Stands: The president and board of trustees are hereby
authorized to determine and designate by proper signs taxicab stands, and no
person other than a taxicab operator shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other
than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been
officially designated and appropriately signed; except, that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
   J.   After Snowfall: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the right
of way of any public street in the village at any time within twelve (12) hours
after a snowfall of two inches (2") or more has occurred, unless the snow has
been plowed off or otherwise removed from such right of way. (Ord. 507, 2-9-
1978)
   K.   Village Employees; Village Business: When a sign is erected limiting
parking except for village employees or for the transaction of business in the
village hall, no person shall park a vehicle in the area so signed except a
village employee or for the purpose described. (Ord. 681, 12-27-1984)
   L.   Public Parking Lot Permits: When signs have been erected upon any
public parking lot indicating that parking is prohibited except by permit only,
no person shall park any vehicle in or upon said lot without displaying from
the bracket supporting the inside rearview mirror at the inside center of the
windshield in a manner visible from the outside of said vehicle, a valid
parking permit issued by the village. The fee, effective with the July-
September 2010 quarter, for such parking permit shall be one hundred twenty
dollars ($120.00) per quarter. No person shall park such vehicle in any space
other than the space for which a permit has been issued and in any other
position than a head in position, so that the rear of the vehicle is closer to
the parking aisle than is the front of the vehicle. (Ord. 2010-04-11, 4-15-
2010)
   M.   Parking Commercial Vehicles In Residential Neighborhoods:
      1.   General Prohibition: Except as specifically permitted in section
6-2-5 of this chapter, no commercial vehicle as defined herein may be parked or
stored in a residential neighborhood other than in a completely enclosed garage
except for loading or unloading of household belongings between six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight for the purpose of moving a
personal residence or for deliveries, repairs, construction, maintenance, or
service calls.
      2.   Specifically Permitted Regardless Of Presence Of Commercial
Lettering Or Logos:
         a.   Pickup trucks, cargo vans, sprinter vans with a state vehicle
license of class D or less and enclosed trailers may be parked anywhere on a
private residential driveway provided the height of the vehicle/trailer,
including any attached accessories, does not exceed nine feet (9') in height.
         b.   Pickup trucks, cargo vans, sprinter vans and enclosed trailers
over nine feet (9') in height, step vans, panel vans, box trucks and extended
wheel base limousines, may be parked on private residential driveways provided:
1) any such vehicle/trailer is parked outside actual front, actual corner side,
and required interior side yard and at least ten feet (10') from the rear
property lines and 2) any such motorized vehicle either has a valid state
license of class D or less or a livery license plate.
      3.   Special Use Commercial Vehicles: The outdoor parking of a single
commercial vehicle not specifically allowed herein may be approved as a special
use under provisions for special uses in section
1-7-5 of this code. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-3-7 of this title.
6-2-3: PARKING RESTRICTIONS OR PROHIBITIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: The provisions of this section prohibiting
the stopping, standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic control device.
   B.   Parking Prohibited At All Times 1 : When signs are erected giving
notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time upon any of the
streets so marked.
   C.   Parking Prohibited During Certain Hours 2 : The village president and
board of trustees may erect traffic signs prohibiting parking on any streets or
locations within the municipality during certain hours. When such signs are
erected giving notice of the prohibition against parking, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within the area or place during the hours specified by
such signs.
   D.   Time Limit Parking: The president and board of trustees may erect
traffic signs limiting the time for parking vehicles on certain streets or
locations within the municipality. When such signs are erected giving notice of
the limitation of time for parking, no person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle for longer than the time specified by such signs. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-3-5 of this title.
2 2. See also section
  6-3-7 of this title.
6-2-4: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Standing Or Parking Close To And Parallel To Curb: Except as otherwise
provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where
there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or parked with the right hand
wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within twelve inches (12") of the right
hand curb.
   B.   Angle Parking:
      1.   Determination Of Angle Parking; Signs Posted: The president and
board of trustees shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall be
permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, but such angle parking shall not
be indicated upon any federal aid or state highway within this village unless
the state has determined by resolution or order entered in its minutes that the
roadway is of sufficient width to permit angle parking without interfering with
the free movement of traffic.
Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where passing
traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side of the
street.
      2.   Obedience To Angle Parking Signs Or Markings: On those streets which
have been signed or marked for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a
vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by
such signs or markings.
      3.   Permits For Loading Or Unloading At An Angle To The Curb: The
president and board of trustees are authorized to issue special permits to
permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such
permit. Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein.
It shall be unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the
special terms or conditions of any such permit. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
6-2-5: PASSENGER AND FREIGHT LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Authority To Designate Loading Zones: The village president and board
of trustees are hereby authorized to determine the location of passenger and
freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs
indicating the same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this
section are applicable.
   B.   Permits For Curb Loading Zones: The president and board of trustees
shall not hereafter designate or sign any curb loading zone upon special
request of any person unless such person makes application for a permit for
such zone and for two (2) signs to indicate the ends of each such zone. The
village board, upon granting a permit at no charge and issuing such signs, may,
by general regulations, impose conditions upon the use of such signs and for
reimbursement of the village for the value thereof in the event of their loss
or damage and their return in the event of misuse or upon expiration of permit.
Every such permit shall expire at the end of one year.
   C.   Standing In Curb Loading Zones:
      1.   Passenger Loading Zones: No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb
loading zone during the hours when the regulations applicable to such curb
loading zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed three (3)
minutes.
      2.   Freight Loading Zones: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and
delivery or pick up and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight
curb loading zone during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are
in effect. In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials
exceed thirty (30) minutes.
   D.   Public Carrier Stops And Stands:
      1.   Authority To Designate: The president and board of trustees are
hereby authorized and required to establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab
stands and stands for other passenger common carrier motor vehicles on such
public streets in such places and in such number as they shall determine to be
of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and every such bus stop,
bus stand, taxicab stand or other stand shall be designated by appropriate
signs.
      2.   Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands:
         a.   The operator of a bus shall:
            (1)   Not stand or park such vehicle upon any street at any place
other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
            (2)   Not stop such vehicle upon any street at any place for the
purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage other than at a bus
stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so designated as provided herein,
except in case of an emergency. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
            (3)   Enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone on a
public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right front wheel of
such vehicle not farther than twelve inches (12") from the curb and the bus
approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of
other vehicular traffic. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978; amd. 1989 Code)
         b.   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle
upon any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as
provided herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab
from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking
regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
6-2-6: MUNICIPAL PARKING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   COLLECTION/FEE BOX: A slotted box or other receptacle into which a parking
fee is deposited thereby granting a vehicle authority to park in a designated
or numbered parking space.
   MOBILE PHONE APP: A computer program designed to run on smartphones, tablet
computers and other mobile devices.
   MUNICIPAL PARKING LOT: Any off street area designated for metered, reserved,
permitted or time limit parking.
   RESTRICTED OR TIME LIMIT PARKING ZONE: A certain designated section of a
public street or Municipal parking lot in which parking is permitted for
designated periods and for which signs are posted giving notice of such
periods.
   USER FEES: A sum of money paid by the individual who chooses to access a
service or facility. Examples of user fees include parking charges the
individual directly pays for accessing and using a service which is provided.
   VEHICLE: Any device by which any person or property may be transported upon
a public highway, except those operated upon rails and permanent tracks.
   B.   Fee Or Daily Parking Lots: Fee or daily parking lots shall apply to all
public parking lots owned, leased or controlled by the Village in which charges
for parking are imposed and collected by means of the user depositing a fee as
hereinafter set forth, in United States currency or an acceptable form of
payment, in receptacles known as fee collection boxes located in respective
parking lots. Fees deposited must be appropriated to the proper numbered space
for the location which the vehicle is parked. All definitions set forth in
subsection A of this section shall also apply to the terms used in this
section.
      1.   The following lots are hereby designated as daily fee parking lots
and are authorized only for the parking of vehicles for which the proper fee
has been prepaid on a monthly basis, has been paid on a daily basis, by
depositing the proper fee in the appropriate slot of a collection box in the
form of United States currency or credit or the proper fee has been paid by
utilizing the Village approved mobile phone app, except those spaces otherwise
designated by the posting of signs:
         a.   Metra lot, situated on Jewell Road, just north of Winfield Metra
Station.
         b.   Highlake Road lot, situated along Highlake Road, just west of the
U.S. Post Office.
         c.   Church Street, situated along Church Street, between Chicago
Avenue and Liberty Street.
         d.   St. John the Baptist parking lot, situated at the corner of
Church Street and Liberty Street.
         e.   Jewell Road lot, situated on Jewell Road, just east of Church
Street.
         f.   Church Street lot, situated at the intersection of Church Street
and Chicago Avenue.
         g.   Chicago Avenue lot, situated along Chicago Avenue, north and
south sides of the one-way roadway.
   C.   Employee Parking Permits:
      1.   The Village of Winfield shall designate permanent and temporary
parking areas for employees only. The designated parking lots shall be properly
signed and all authorized users of these designated parking spaces shall
display a Village issued employee E numbered parking permit. Effective July 1,
2015, all persons eligible for an employee permit and/or persons needing a
replacement permit shall remit the fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for each
employee parking placard.
         a.   The employee permits shall only be valid during the times in
which the employee is actively engaged in their course of employment and shall
not be valid for any other purposes such as commuting on the train.
         b.   The employee permits shall only be valid to the employee to which
it was issued.
            (1)   Any person convicted of violating the terms of subsection D1a
of this section or this subsection D1b shall be fined according to the Village
schedule of fines and have their employee parking privileges revoked.
   D.   Issuance And Sale Of Parking Permits:
      1.   The Village shall cause suitable reserved parking permits to be
prepared and made available for issuance and sale. Such permits shall designate
the permit parking lot for which they are issued. Permits for different time
periods, if any, or for different lots, shall be designated by different colors
or in some other manner approved by the Village Manager.
      2.   Permits shall be offered for sale by the Finance Department during
regular business hours at the Village office in advance of the commencement of
each calendar quarter, subject to the following:
         a.   Permit purchases and renewals are issued and sold by the Finance
Department when such permits are made available for sale at the Village
offices.
         b.   Permits are sold quarterly and must be purchased by the deadline
set forth in and are subject to the regulations and policies set forth by the
Village of Winfield.
         c.   Quarterly permits must be renewed at least seven (7) days prior
to the beginning of the new quarter (quarters begin on January 1, April 1, July
1 and October 1 of each year).
         d.   Late fees for quarterly permits are as follows:
            (1)   A ten percent (10%) late fee will be charged to permits
purchased after the seventh day prior to the beginning of the new quarter, but
prior to the first day of the new quarter.
            (2)   A twenty percent (20%) late fee will be charged to permits
purchased after the first day of the new quarter has begun, but prior to the
fifth day after the new quarter has begun.
            (3)   If the appropriate payment is not received on or before the
fifth calendar day of the new quarter, the permit holder forfeits the permit. A
permit holder may not utilize the permit parking lot without a valid permit
displayed.
         e.   In the event that a current permit holder fails to renew their
permit in the time outlined above, they can appeal their case for
reconsideration to the Administrative and Finance Committee, by filing their
request in writing, to the attention of the Village Finance Director.
      The following reasons for possible consideration for failure to renew
their permit in the time outlined in subsections E2c and E2d of this section,
will be either a death in the immediate family of the permit holder or illness
of the permit holder or family member of the permit holder for which the permit
holder provided necessary care before the renewal deadline. In both cases, the
permit holder will be required to provide written documentation or evidence
supporting the above considerations.
         f.   The Village will also maintain a permit parking waiting list. The
process of the waiting list is subject to the permit parking regulations and
policies set forth by the Village of Winfield. Any person on the waiting list
who violates subsection E4, E5 or E6 of this section is subject to a fine or
penalty in accordance with title 13 of this Code and removal from the permit
parking waiting list.
      3.   Parking fees shall be as set forth in this subsection:
         a.   Permit Parking Lots: A minimum amount of one hundred twenty
dollars ($120.00) per calendar quarter will be charged for permit holders.
         b.   Daily Fee Parking Lots: Two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) per day
or increases as determined by the Village Finance and Administrative Committee
and a not to exceed amount of ten dollars ($10.00) daily.
         c.   Night Parking: Parking between the hours of four o'clock (4:00)
P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. shall be permitted in public parking lots. No
vehicle bearing a State C class registration or higher or any recreational
vehicle is permitted to utilize night parking as stipulated in this subsection
E3c.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place or situate a
vehicle in a reserved or fee parking lot owned, leased or controlled by the
Village for the storage of a motor vehicle or motor vehicles; and it shall be
unlawful for any person to in any way utilize any parking permit issued by the
Village of Winfield for the storage of motor vehicle or motor vehicles.
"Storage" is defined as the continuous presence of a motor vehicle in a
reserved or fee parking lot, owned, leased or controlled by the Village for a
period of seventy two (72) hours or longer. Any person found guilty of
violating this subsection shall be ineligible for any reserved parking permit
for a period of one year from the date of the finding of guilty.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, change, alter,
duplicate or transfer any parking permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
      6.   It shall be unlawful to share or lend a Village parking permit to
another whom was not originally issued the permit. Permits are issued to one
holder and may not be shared. The name associated with the permit displayed
must match the name on the vehicle registration. Any person convicted of any of
these violations is subject to a fine of title 13 of this Code and the Village
Manager shall have the authority to revoke any such permit, or renewal thereof,
to any permit holder who pleads guilty to, or is found guilty and is convicted
of more than three (3) violations of any of the provisions of this subsection
within any consecutive period of six (6) months.
      7.   Relief from application of subsection E2d(3) of this section shall
be available from the Village of Winfield Administration and Finance Committee
upon petition by the permit holder, to the Village Finance Director. The period
for which relief may be granted shall not exceed a cumulative period of two (2)
weeks in a calendar year. Notwithstanding provisions of this chapter to the
contrary, any person violating this subsection shall be subject to penalties
set forth under title 13 of this Code.
      8.   Notwithstanding the foregoing schedule of fines and penalties, any
person who removes any mark placed on a tire by a police officer or who parks
overtime on property owned, maintained or controlled by the Village of
Winfield, or who parks on private property without the consent of the owner, or
who interferes with, damages, removes, tampers with, disables a vehicle wheel
lock, or who parks a commercial vehicle in violation of subsection E3c of this
section, shall be fined in accordance with section
13-1-4 of this Code.
      9.   The Village reserves the right to transfer all first or second party
user fees associated with a mobile parking app or a credit card transaction,
for the purposes of payment, to the responsibility of the user.
(Ord. 2015-05-13, 5-7-2015; amd. Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017; Ord. 2019-02-01,
2-7-2019; Ord. 2025-03-03, 3-20-2025)
ARTICLE A. PARKING METERS AND PARKING BOXES
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Definitions
6-2A-2: General Parking Regulations In Meter And Box Zones
6-2A-3: Parking Time Limitations
6-2A-4: Prohibited Acts; Use Of Slugs
6-2A-5: Penalty
6-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
PARKING BOX ZONE: Any area where a parking box (a receptacle provided by the
Village for the deposit of money to pay for the privilege of parking in the
parking box zone) is installed or directed to be installed by the Board of
Trustees.
PARKING METER ZONE: Any area where parking meters are installed or directed to
be installed by order of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 655, 2-23-1984)
6-2A-2: GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS IN METER AND BOX ZONES:
It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle in a parking meter zone or parking box
zone as established by order of the Board of Trustees, except as hereinafter
provided. The Board of Trustees shall, by order, designate the hours of the day
and the days of the year when parking in a parking meter zone or parking box
zone is permitted without compliance with the provisions of this article. Each
parking meter or box shall bear thereon a legend indicating the days and hours
when the requirement to deposit money therein shall apply. (Ord. 655, 2-23-
1984)
6-2A-3: PARKING TIME LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Time limitations for parking in parking meter zones shall be
established from time to time by the Board of Trustees. Parking fees in parking
meter zones shall be established by the Board of Trustees; the parking rate for
spaces in daily parking lots is set at two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) per day,
effective June 1, 2010. (Ord. 2010-04-11, 4-15-2010)
   B.   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle in a parking meter or parking
box zone for a period of time longer than is designated on the meter or box for
the value of the money deposited in such meter or box. (Ord. 655, 2-23-1984)
6-2A-4: PROHIBITED ACTS; USE OF SLUGS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to insert, or attempt to insert,
into the coin receptacle of any parking meter or box any slug, button or other
object, or to manipulate or operate, or attempt to manipulate or operate in any
manner whatever, any parking meter or box or any mechanism or device connected
or commonly used therewith with the intent to park in a parking meter zone
without paying therefor.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to insert, or to attempt to insert,
into the coin receptacle of any parking meter or box any slug, button, wire
hook or other implement or substance with the intent to obtain from such coin
receptacle any object theretofore deposited. (Ord. 655, 2-23-1984)
6-2A-5: PENALTY:
Any person accused of violating or failure to comply with the provisions of
this article shall be subject to the penalty provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Schedule I - One-Way Streets
6-3-2: Schedule II - Through Streets
6-3-3: Schedule III - Stop Intersections
6-3-4: Schedule IV - Yield Intersections
6-3-5: Schedule V - Parking Prohibited At All Times On Certain Streets
6-3-6: Schedule VI - Parking Permitted On One Side Of Certain Streets
6-3-7: Schedule VII - Parking Prohibited During Certain Hours On Certain
Streets
6-3-8: Schedule VIII - Speed Zones
6-3-9: Schedule IX - Special Speed Zones
6-3-10: Schedule X - No U-Turns
6-3-11: Schedule XI - Turning Prohibited
6-3-1: SCHEDULE I - ONE-WAY STREETS:
In accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208 of
the Illinois vehicle code, the following are one-way streets:
 
Chicago Avenue From Church Street to Winfield Road, westbound only.
Church Street  From Beecher Street to Chicago Avenue, northbound only.
Park Street    From Washington Street to Beecher Street, only northbound, on
               school days between the hours of 8:00 A.M. to 3:30 P.M.
 
(Ord. 655, 2-23-1984; amd. Ord. 98-9-27, 9-3-1998; Ord. 2009-12-36, 12-3-2009)
6-3-2: SCHEDULE II - THROUGH STREETS:
In accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208,
the following are through streets:
 
County Farm Road From the village limits on the south to the village limits on
                 the north.
Gary's Mill Road From Winfield Road to the village limits on the west.
Highlake Road    From the village limits on the west to Winfield Road.
Jewell Road      From Winfield Road to the village limits on the east.
Manchester Road  From Winfield Road to the village limits on the east.
Roosevelt Road   From the village limits on the east to the village limits on
                 the west.
Winfield Road    From the village limits on the south to the village limits on
                 the north.
 
(Ord. 655, 2-23-1984)
6-3-3: SCHEDULE III - STOP INTERSECTIONS:
In accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208,
the following are stop intersections:
   A.   Stop Intersections:
Ambleside Drive            Stop for Highlake Road traffic.
Augusta Court              Stop for Klein Creek Drive traffic.
Barnes Avenue              Stop for County Farm Road traffic.
                           Stop for Church Street traffic.
Beecher Street             Stop for Summit Drive traffic.
                           Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
                           Westbound stop for Wynwood Road traffic.
Blair-Knoll                Stop for Blair Street and Calvin Court traffic.
                           North stop for Peter Road traffic.
Blair Street               South stop for Peter Road traffic.
                           Stop for County Farm Road traffic.
Brookside Drive            Stop for Summit Drive traffic.
Calvin Court               Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
                           Stop for Parkway Drive traffic.
Carrel Street              Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Chartwell Drive            Stop for Winfield Scott Drive traffic.
Chelsea Circle             Stop for Winfield Scott Drive traffic.
Chestnut Lane              Stop for County Farm Road traffic.
Chicago Street             Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Childs Street              Stop for East Street traffic.
Church Street              Stop for Highlake Road traffic.
                           Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
Churchill Road             Stop for County Farm Road traffic.
                           Stop for Winfield Scott Drive traffic.
Cleveland Street           Stop for Roosevelt Road traffic.
Concord Lane               Stop for Geneva Road traffic.
County Farm Road           Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
                           Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
East Street                Stop for Manchester Road traffic.
                           Stop for Roosevelt Road traffic.
Enders Lane                Stop for Pleasant Hill Road traffic.
                           Stop for Fleming Drive traffic.
Ethel Street               Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
                           Stop for Manchester Road traffic.
                           Stop for Roosevelt Road traffic.
Evelyn Avenue              Stop for East Street traffic.
Fischer Lane               For Taylor Street traffic.
Fisher Lane                Stop for Golf View Road traffic.
                           Stop for County Farm Road traffic.
Fleming Drive              Stop for Robbins Street traffic.
                           Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
                           Stop for Manchester Road traffic.
Forest Street              Stop for Roosevelt Road traffic.
                           Stop for Sunnyside Avenue traffic.
                           Stop for Williams Street traffic.
Gary's Mill Road           Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Glen Eagles Drive          Stop for Pleasant Hill Road traffic.
Golf View Lane             North stop for Taylor Street traffic.
                           South stop for Taylor Street traffic.
Grant Street               Stop for Roosevelt Road traffic.
Highlake Road              Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Hospital entrance          Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
Interlachen Lane           Stop for Glen Eagles Drive traffic.
                           Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
Jefferson Street           Stop for Manchester Road traffic.
                           Stop for Sunnyside Avenue traffic.
Jewell Court               Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
                           Northeastbound stop for Highlake and Jewell Road
Jewell Road                traffic.
                           Stop for County Farm Road traffic.
                           Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Kelly Court                Stop for Kelly Court traffic entering onto Parkway
                           Drive.
Klein Creek                Stop for Pleasant Hill Road traffic.
Lancaster Drive            Stop for Waterford Drive traffic.
                           Stop for Winfield Scott Drive traffic.
Leonard Street             Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
Liberty Street             Stop for Church Street traffic.
Lincoln Avenue             Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
MacArthur Avenue           Stop for Tamarack Drive traffic.
                           Stop for Manchester Road traffic.
Madison Street             Stop for Roosevelt Road traffic.
                           Stop for Sunnyside Avenue traffic.
                           Stop for Williams Street traffic.
Manchester Road            Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Mulligan Place             Stop for Golf View Lane traffic.
                           Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
Myrtle Street              Stop for Manchester Road traffic.
                           Stop for Roosevelt Road traffic.
National Street            Stop for County Farm Road traffic.
Nicholson Avenue           Stop for East Street traffic.
Normandy Woods Lane        Stop for Roosevelt Road traffic.
Oak Court                  Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Oakwood Street             Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Park Street                Stop for Beecher Street traffic.
                           Stop for Washington Street traffic.
Parkway Drive              Stop for County Farm Road traffic.
Peter Road                 Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
                           Stop for Parkway Drive traffic.
Pinehurst Drive            Stop for Pleasant Hill Road traffic.
Prairie Path Court         Stop for Geneva Road traffic.
Prestcott Drive            Stop for Parkway Drive traffic.
Prestwick Lane             Stop for Pleasant Hill Road traffic.
Providence Road            Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Purity Lane                Stop for Wynwood Road traffic.
River Lane                 Stop for Beecher Street traffic.
                           Stop for Fleming Drive traffic.
Robbins Street             Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
                           Stop for Manchester Road traffic.
                           Stop for Williams Street traffic.
St. John Avenue            Stop for County Farm Road traffic.
Seminole                   Stop for Glen Eagles Drive traffic.
Shaffner Road              Stop for Roosevelt Road traffic.
Shelburne Farms Drive      Stop for Highlake Road traffic.
Shelburne Farms Drive West Stop for Highlake Road traffic.
Siefert Court              Stop for Geneva Road traffic.
Stanley Street             Stop for Jewell Road traffic.
Starcliff Court            Stop for Washington Street traffic.
Summit Drive               Stop for Beecher Street traffic.
                           Stop for Gary's Mill Road traffic.
Sunnyside Avenue           Stop for Church Street traffic.
                           Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Suzanne Drive              Stop for Winfield Scott Drive traffic.
Thorngate Lane             Stop for Bob-O-Link Drive traffic.
Timber Ridge Road          Stop for Geneva Road traffic.
Torrey Pines               Stop for Harriet Street traffic.
Troon Court                Stop for Glen Eagles Drive traffic.
Tuckaway                   Stop for Pleasant Hill Road traffic.
Turnberry Lane             Stop for Bob-O-Link Drive traffic.
                           Eastbound stop for Jefferson Street traffic.
Washington Street          Stop for Summit Street traffic.
                           Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Waterford Drive            Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
                           Stop for Winfield Scott Drive (4-way stop).
Willard Way                Stop for Highlake Road traffic.
Williams Street            Stop for East Street traffic.
                           Stop for Winfield Road traffic.
Wilmar Court               Stop for Gary's Mill Road traffic.
Windemere Road             Stop for Highlake Road traffic.
Winfield Road              Stop for Beecher Street traffic.
                           Stop for Highlake Road traffic.
                           Stop for Brandon Boulevard traffic.
Winfield Scott Drive       Stop for Churchill Road traffic.
                           Stop for County Farm Road traffic.
                           Northbound stop for Beecher Street traffic.
Wynwood Road               Stop for Gary's Mill Road traffic.
                           Stop for Roosevelt Road traffic.
 
   B.   Temporary Stop Intersections: For purposes of this section, a
"temporary stop intersection" is an intersection where a "Stop" sign is
activated by the Chief of Police or his designee during certain peak periods of
use in order to indicate that traffic shall stop at said intersection during
the times set forth hereinafter. The following are temporary stop
intersections:
 
Church Street Temporary stop for Beecher before and after school, church
              services, funerals, etc., at St. John's Church.
 
(Ord. 655, 2-23-1984; amd. Ord. 94-6-2, 6-23-1994; Ord. 94-9-1, 9-22-1994; Ord.
96-5-17, 5-16-1996; Ord. 96-12-46, 12-19-1996; Ord. 98-1-3, 1-22-1998; Ord.
2001-9-28, 9-6-2001; Ord. 2003-7-33, 7-10-2003; Ord. 2003-7-37, 7-24-2003; Ord.
2005-02-07, 2-3-2005; Ord. 2007-3-9, 3-1-2007; Ord. 2010-10-28, 10-7-2010; Ord.
2010-10-29, 10-21-2010; Ord. 2018-12-38, 12-20-2018; Ord. 2019-09-21, 9-19-
2019)
6-3-4: SCHEDULE IV - YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
In accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208,
the following are yield intersections:
On Barnes Avenue at Calvin Court.
On Blair Street at Woodvale Street.
On Boles Avenue at Robbins Street.
On Cleveland Avenue at Williams Street.
On Grant Street at Williams Street.
On Jefferson Street at Williams Street. (Ord. 655, 2-23-1984; amd. Ord. 2001-8-
27, 8-16-2001; Ord. 2003-7-37, 7-24-2003; Ord. 2018-12-38, 12-20-2018)
6-3-5: SCHEDULE V - PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS:
In accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208, parking is
prohibited at all times at the following locations:
Church Street, west side, from Beecher Street south to Sunnyside Avenue.
Concord Lane, both sides, between Geneva Road and Melrose Lane.
Fisher Lane, south side only, from Florida Lane to the dead end of Fisher.
Florida Lane, west side only, from Oak Court to Fisher Lane.
Gary's Mill Road, north and south sides, from Winfield Road to Summit Drive.
Glen Eagles Drive, north side, from Pleasant Hill Road to Troon Court.
Highlake Road, north and south sides, from Winfield Road to the western limits
of the Village.
Jewell Road, north and south sides, from Church Street to East Street.
Jewell Road, north and south sides, from County Farm Road to the intersection
with Highlake Road, continuing on Highlake Road on the north and south sides
from the intersection with Jewell Road to Winfield Road.
Jewell Road, north and south sides, from 100 feet west of Myrtle Street to 100
feet east of Myrtle Street.
Jewell Road, north side, from Winfield Road to Church Street, only in those
areas designated by painted yellow curbs and/or signs.
Jewell Road, south side, from Winfield Road to Church Street, but with respect
to the south side, only in those areas so designated by painted yellow curbs
and/or signs.
Myrtle Street, east side, from Jewell Road south to the north boundary of
Founder's Park and on the west side from Jewell Road south to the terminus of
Myrtle Street.
Oak Court, north side only, from Winfield Road to the dead end of Oak Court.
Pinehurst Drive, from Pleasant Hill Road west to the west lot line of 26W238
Pinehurst Drive and 26W249 Pinehurst Drive.
Roosevelt Road, north and south sides, within the corporate limits of the
village.
Summit Drive, both sides, from Washington Avenue south 200 feet and Washington
Avenue north 200 feet.
Sunnyside Avenue, south side only, from the intersection of Winfield Road to
the intersection of Church Street.
Willard Way, east and west sides.
Windermere Road, east side, from the north edge of Coniston Court, north to
0N155 Windermere Road (160 feet).
Winfield Road, east and west sides, from Beecher Street to Roosevelt Road
(Route 38).
Winfield Road, east and west sides, from Highlake Road to the Union Pacific
Railroad crossing and south of that crossing to Beecher Street in those areas
so designated by painted yellow curbs and/or signs. (Ord. 2006-12-65A, 12-21-
2006; amd. Ord. 2009-12-36, 12-3-2009; Ord. 2011-09-15, 9-1-2011; Ord. 2013-02-
05, 2-2-2013; Ord. 2014-10-30, 10-2-2014)
6-3-6: SCHEDULE VI - PARKING PERMITTED ON ONE SIDE OF CERTAIN STREETS:
In accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208,
and when signs are erected to give notice thereof, parking shall be permitted
only on one side of the following streets:
Bedford Lane.
Concord Lane.
Essex Lane.
Melrose Lane.
Providence Lane. (Ord. 655, 2-23-1984)
6-3-7: SCHEDULE VII - PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON CERTAIN
STREETS:
In accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes, and when
signs are erected to give notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle longer
than the hours specified, or at any time parking is prohibited, as follows:
   A.   The following named streets are limited to three (3) hour parking
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
daily, except Sundays and legal holidays:
Beecher Street, north and south sides, from Winfield Road to Church Street.
Beecher Street, north side, from Winfield Road to Summit Drive.
Beecher Street, south side, from Church Street east to the end of Beecher
Street.
Church Street, east side, from Beecher Street to the north side of St. John's
School building.
Church Street, west side, between Beecher Street and the Union Pacific Railroad
tracks, with angle parking only allowed on the west side of the street to a
point fifty feet (50') south of Chicago Avenue.
Highlake Road, north side, between Willard Way and Winfield Road.
Jewell Road, north and south sides, between Winfield Road and Church Street.
Jewell Road, north side, parking spaces located on the shoulder in front of
27W418 Jewell Road.
Liberty Street, north and south sides.
Winfield Road, east and west sides, between Beecher Street and the Union
Pacific Railroad tracks.
Winfield Road, east and west sides, from Highlake Road to the Union Pacific
Railroad crossing except in those areas where no parking is designated by
painted yellow curbs and/or signs. (Ord. 2006-12-65A, 12-21-2006; amd. Ord.
2009-12-36, 12-3-2009)
   B.   1. No vehicle shall be parked on school days between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M. on the following
streets at the locations described:
Beecher Street, south side, from Winfield Road to Park Street.
Park Street, east and west sides, from Beecher Street to the southern property
line of Winfield Public School. (Ord. 655, 2-23-1984; amd. Ord. 2009-12-36, 12-
3-2009)
      2.   No vehicle shall be parked on school days between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M. on the following streets at
the locations described:
Church Street, east side, from Sunnyside Avenue to the northern side of St.
John's School building. (Ord. 2013-04-12, 4-4-2013)
   C.   No vehicles shall be parked between the hours of six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except Sundays and holidays, on the following
streets at the locations described:
Beecher Street, north side, from Church Street to the west property line of the
Winfield industrial complex.
Highlake Road, south side, from Winfield Road east to Willard Way. (Ord. 655,
2-23-1984; amd. 1994 Code)
   D.   No vehicles shall be parked between the hours of two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. except on Sundays and holidays, on
the following streets at the locations described:
Both sides of: Jefferson Street from Jewell Road north to Bolles Avenue.
Quail Run Court from Robbins Drive south to its termination.
Robbins Drive from Jewell Road south to it termination. (Ord. 2015-10-31, 10-
15-2015)
6-3-8: SCHEDULE VIII - SPEED ZONES:
   A.   Alleys: It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle in any alley at
a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   B.   Highways Outside Urban Districts: It shall be unlawful to drive any
vehicle on any highway outside the urban district at speeds of more than fifty
five (55) miles per hour.
   C.   Towing Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle of the first
division towing another vehicle, outside of an urban district more than fifty
five (55) miles per hour, in an urban district at more than twenty five (25)
miles per hour, or in an alley at not more than fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   D.   Specific Speed Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to drive any motor
vehicle on any street which is both within the corporate limits of the village
and under the maintenance jurisdiction of the village in excess of twenty five
(25) miles per hour except for the following streets, and as to those streets,
it shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle in excess of the speed
hereinafter specified: (Ord. 93-1-1, 1-14-1993)
      COLLECTOR STREETS
Gary's Mill Road          From the west village limits to Winfield Road, 30
                          miles per hour.
Highlake Road             From Winfield Road to 800 feet west, 30 miles per
                          hour.
Jewell Road               From the east village limits to County Farm Road, 35
                          miles per hour.
Jewell Road/Highlake Road From County Farm Road to Winfield Road, 30 miles per
                          hour.
Manchester Road           From the east village limits to Winfield Road, 30
                          miles per hour.
Pleasant Hill             Within the corporate limits of the village between
Road                      St. Charles Road and Geneva Road, 35 miles per hour.
                          From Illinois Route 38 to 100 feet south of Williams
Winfield Road             Street, 35 miles per hour.
                          From 100 feet south of Williams Street to Manchester
                          Road, 30 miles per hour.
 
      LOCAL NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS
Beecher Avenue   From Winfield Road to Summit Drive, 25 miles per hour.
Cooley Avenue    From the east village limits to Robbins Street, 25 miles per
                 hour.
Cypress Lane     From Tamarack Drive to Timber Ridge Drive, 25 miles per hour.
East Street      From Cooley Avenue to Jewell Road, 25 miles per hour.
                 From Illinois 38 to Sunnyside Avenue, 25 miles per hour.
Evelyn Avenue    From east village limits to East Street, 25 miles per hour.
Sunnyside Avenue From East Street to Church Street, 25 miles per hour.
Windermere Road  From Highlake Road to northern terminus, 20 miles per hour.
 
(Ord. 93-1-1, 1-14-1993; amd. Ord. 95-9-18, 9-28-1995; Ord. 2001-8-26, 8-2-
2001)
   E.   Compliance With Posted Speed Limits: It shall be unlawful to drive any
vehicle on any street or highway within the village under the jurisdiction of
the state department of public works and buildings or of the county, at a speed
in excess of the posted speed limits.
   F.   Use Due Care: The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; and
speed shall be decreased as may be reasonably necessary to avoid colliding with
any person or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   G.   Second Division Vehicles: Provided further that the speed of all
vehicles of the second division as defined by statute shall be as follows:
      1.   If the vehicle is designed and used for pulling freight and has a
gross weight of eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less (including the weight of
the vehicle and maximum load), and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the
maximum is fifty five (55) miles per hour outside of an urban district, twenty
five (25) miles per hour in an urban district, and fifteen (15) miles per hour
in an alley; but if such vehicle is equipped with two (2) or more solid tires,
the maximum is ten (10) miles per hour at all times and in all locations.
      2.   If the vehicle is designed and used for carrying more than seven (7)
passengers, and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the maximum is fifty five
(55) miles per hour. (Ord. 93-1-1, 1-14-1993)
6-3-9: SCHEDULE IX - SPECIAL SPEED ZONES:
Beecher Street from Winfield Road to Summit Drive, 20 miles per hour on school
days when children are present.
Church Street from Sunnyside Avenue to Chicago Avenue, 20 miles per hour on
school days when children are present.
Fleming Drive from 27W170 Fleming Drive to 27W245 Fleming Drive, 20 miles per
hour on school days when children are present.
Jewell Road from East Street to Highlake Road, 20 miles per hour on school days
when children are present.
Jewell Road from Pleasant Hill Road to Elmwood Street, 20 miles per hour when
children are present.
Manchester Road from 27W420 Manchester Road to Ethel Street, 20 miles per hour
on school days when children are present.
Park Street from Beecher Street to Springbrook Creek, 20 miles per hour on
school days when children are present.
Summit Drive from Beecher Street to 0S455 Summit Drive, 20 miles per hour on
school days when children are present.
Sunnyside Avenue from Winfield Road to Forest Street, 20 miles per hour on
school days when children are present.
Winfield Road from 0N110 Winfield Road to 0S231 Winfield Road, 20 miles per
hour on school days when children are present. (Ord. 96-4-15, 4-4-1996)
6-3-10: SCHEDULE X - NO U-TURNS:
In accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208,
the following are streets on which no U-turn is permitted at the locations
described:
On Church Street, from Sunnyside Avenue to Liberty Street.
On Jewell Road from Winfield Road to Church Street.
On Winfield Road from Highland Road to Beecher Street. (Ord. 655, 2-23-1984;
amd. Ord. 97-6-25, 6-5-1997)
6-3-11: SCHEDULE XI - TURNING PROHIBITED:
In accordance with the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208,
the following turns are prohibited:
No left turn from Cleveland Street onto Route 38/Roosevelt Road during weekdays
from 7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 4:30 P.M. to 6:30 P.M.
No left turn from East Street onto Route 38/Roosevelt Road during weekdays from
7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 4:30 P.M. to 6:30 P.M.
No left turn from Forest Street onto Route 38/Roosevelt Road during weekdays
from 7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 4:30 P.M. to 6:30 P.M.
No left turn from Grant Street onto Route 38/Roosevelt Road during weekdays
from 7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 4:30 P.M. to 6:30 P.M.
No left turn from Madison Street onto Route 38/Roosevelt Road during weekdays
from 7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. and 4:30 P.M. to 6:30 P.M.
No left turn from Route 38/Roosevelt Road onto Cleveland Street at any time.
No left turn from Route 38/Roosevelt Road onto East Street at any time.
No left turn from Route 38/Roosevelt Road onto Forest Street at any time.
No left turn from Route 38/Roosevelt Road onto Grant Street at any time.
No left turn from Route 38/Roosevelt Road onto Madison Street at any time.
No left turn from Winfield Road into the parking lot located at the southern
property line of Winfield Public School at any time.
No left turn from Winfield Road onto Washington Street at any time.
No left turn onto Winfield Road from the parking lot located at the southern
property line of Winfield Public School at any time.
No right turn on red when pedestrians are present, all 4 corners, Winfield Road
and Highlake Road.
No turn on red when pedestrians are present, all 4 corners, Winfield Road and
Beecher Street. (Ord. 2003-10-46, 10-16-2003; amd. Ord. 2009-12-36, 12-3-2009;
Ord. 2012-04-09, 4-19-2012)
CHAPTER 4
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Right Of Way
6-4-2: Pedestrian's Use Of Roadways
6-4-3: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
6-4-1: RIGHT OF WAY:
When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if need be
to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the
pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling,
or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the
roadway as to be in danger. This paragraph shall not apply under the conditions
stated in subsection 6-4-2C2 of this chapter. Whenever any vehicle is stopped
at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit
a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. (Ord. 507, 2-9-
1978)
6-4-2: PEDESTRIAN'S USE OF ROADWAYS:
   A.   Generally: No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than
by a route at right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite
curb except in a crosswalk.
   B.   Pedestrian Crossings:
      1.   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
      2.   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk (in
the traffic control district) in any business district.
      3.   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
      4.   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   C.   When Pedestrians Shall Yield:
      1.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      2.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right
of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
The foregoing rules in this subsection have no application under the conditions
stated in subsection B of this section when pedestrians are prohibited from
crossing at certain designated places.
   D.   Pedestrians Walking Along Roadways:
      1.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any
pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
      2.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   E.   Soliciting Rides Or Business:
      1.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
      2.   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for
the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked
or about to be parked on a street or highway.
   F.   Suddenly Leaving Curb: No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or
other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so
close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
6-4-3: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED, HAZARDOUS OR UNLAWFUL VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Abandonment Prohibited
6-5-3: Leaving Wrecked, Nonoperating Vehicle On Street
6-5-4: Inoperable Vehicles Declared Nuisance
6-5-5: Duty To Comply With Notice To Dispose
6-5-6: Penalty
6-5-7: Towing Permitted
6-5-8: Authorization For Towing
6-5-9: Pretow Notice For Abandoned Or Inoperable Vehicles
6-5-10: Pretow Hearing Procedures
6-5-11: Posttow Notice For Hazardous And Unlawful Vehicles
6-5-12: Posttow Hearing Procedures
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
stated in this section. Any term not defined herein shall have the meaning
ascribed to it in other ordinances of this Municipality, and if not defined in
any other Municipal ordinances, it shall have the meaning ascribed in the
Illinois Vehicle Code 1 .
ABANDONED VEHICLE: A. A vehicle parked or otherwise located on the public way;
and
1. In such state of disrepair that it is incapable of being driven; or
2. That has been unmoved for a period of at least twenty four (24) hours and,
because of its condition or the period during which it has not been moved or
some other circumstance, appears to have been, and will be presumed to have
been, abandoned by its owner; or
   B.   A vehicle defined as abandoned, or capable of being towed, by any other
ordinances of the Municipality, and which does not fall into the categories of
"hazardous" or "unlawful" vehicles, and therefore is not subject to an
immediate tow.
HAZARDOUS VEHICLE: A. A vehicle that has been involved in an accident and is
disabled or cannot be immediately moved by the owner or operator of the
vehicle; or
   B.   A vehicle that presents an immediate danger to the health or welfare of
the members of the public; or
   C.   A vehicle abandoned or disabled on a public street, way or alley that
is impeding the orderly flow of traffic or poses a potential danger to
pedestrians and other operators of vehicles; or
   D.   A vehicle that must be moved to allow for proper Municipal snow
removal, street sweeping, or other street maintenance, from a public street,
way or alley; or
   E.   A vehicle which is parked in a fire lane on private property, provided
that the Village has entered into a specific agreement with the owner of said
property with respect to the enforcement of fire lane violations.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any vehicle from which, for a period of at least ten (10)
days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the
engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power, or because the vehicle cannot legally be driven on the public street
because it does not display a valid state registration plate.
Inoperable vehicle shall not include a vehicle that is kept within a building
when not in use, nor to operable historic vehicles over twenty five (25) years
of age, nor to a vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in
wrecking or junking of vehicles.
OWNER: A person who holds legal title to the vehicle, or the right of
possession of the vehicle.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
UNLAWFUL VEHICLE: A. A vehicle that has been reported stolen or is the subject
of a search and seizure by the Police Department; or
   B.   A vehicle parked in violation of State of Illinois Statutes or Village
ordinances which prohibit parking at the location in question, or which
prohibit parking during specified hours, or which prohibit parking for the
period of time for which the vehicle has been parked.
VEHICLE: Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street, highway or any public way, except devices
moved by human power, devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks,
and snowmobiles. (Ord. 98-3-7, 3-5-1998; amd. Ord. 2017-08-14, 8-3-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
6-5-2: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED:
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the Village, and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the Village for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned. (Ord. 98-3-7, 3-5-1998)
6-5-3: LEAVING WRECKED, NONOPERATING VEHICLE ON STREET:
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, or
junked vehicle on any street or highway in the Village. (Ord. 98-3-7, 3-5-1998)
6-5-4: INOPERABLE VEHICLES DECLARED NUISANCE:
Inoperable vehicles, whether on public or private property, are hereby declared
to be a nuisance. (Ord. 98-3-7, 3-5-1998)
6-5-5: DUTY TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE TO DISPOSE:
All persons are required to dispose of any abandoned or inoperable vehicle
under their control upon written notice received from the Corporate Authorities
or from the Chief of Police or any member of his department designated by him
commanding such disposition of said abandoned or inoperable vehicle. (Ord. 98-
3-7, 3-5-1998)
6-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the foregoing provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
6-5-7: TOWING PERMITTED:
Any hazardous, abandoned, inoperable or unlawful vehicle may be towed by the
Village or its designee from any highway, street or other public location,
provided that the procedures hereinafter set forth in this chapter are
followed. (Ord. 98-3-7, 3-5-1998)
6-5-8: AUTHORIZATION FOR TOWING:
The towing of vehicles by the Village, or by its approved towing service
operators on behalf of the Village, shall be authorized only by the Police
Department and only under the circumstances herein provided. Towed vehicles
shall be impounded at facilities designated by the Police Department until
lawfully claimed or disposed of pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
101 et seq.
   A.   Towing Without Notice; Immediate Tows: Hazardous or unlawful vehicles
may be towed without prior notice except that, when an unlawful vehicle is one
that has been reported as stolen and is not towable for some other specific
reason, the owner should be, when practicable, notified by telephone or other
means and given the opportunity to claim or move the vehicle, if he so wishes,
to avoid incurring the expenses of a police ordered tow. Provided, however,
that the vehicle may be towed if the owner permitted the tow to be made when
the vehicle was reported stolen or at any time thereafter. Within twenty four
(24) hours after towing a vehicle pursuant to this chapter, a notice shall be
sent to, or personally delivered to, the owner of the vehicle affording the
opportunity for a hearing as provided in sections
6-5-11 and
6-5-12 of this chapter.
   B.   Towing With Prior Notice; Abandoned Or Inoperable Vehicles: Abandoned
or inoperable vehicles may be towed after the mailing or delivery of prior
notice and the affording of an opportunity for a hearing as provided in
sections
6-5-9 and
6-5-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 98-3-7, 3-5-1998)
6-5-9: PRETOW NOTICE FOR ABANDONED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES:
   A.   Notice pursuant to this section shall be personally delivered to the
owner or shall be forwarded by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, to the address of the owner of the vehicle as indicated in the most
current registration list of the secretary of state. In the event that an out
of state vehicle is proposed to be towed, inquiry by computer, telephone or
letter shall be made of the secretary of state of the particular jurisdiction
for the furnishing of the most current registered name and address of the owner
of the vehicle, and notice shall be mailed as provided herein to the address
furnished, though in no case will the village be required to delay towing more
than seven (7) days after the date of the mailing or personal delivery of the
notice if no request for a hearing has been received within that seven (7) day
period.
   B.   A "notice of intent to tow" sticker, with the earliest date upon which
the tow may take place and the address and phone number of the police
department, shall be placed on the vehicle. (Ord. 98-3-7, 3-5-1998)
6-5-10: PRETOW HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Opportunity For Hearing: The owner or person entitled to possession of
a vehicle to be towed as an abandoned or inoperable vehicle shall have seven
(7) days after the date of mailing or personal delivery of the notice to
request, in writing, a pretow hearing. Subsequent to this seven (7) day period,
the vehicle may be towed if the owner has not filed a written hearing request
within the seven (7) day period, and any hearing rights under the provisions of
this chapter will be deemed waived.
   B.   Scheduling Hearings: The pretow hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of the mailing or personal delivery of the pretow
notice. The village shall not be required to delay towing longer than said
fourteen (14) day period.
   C.   Request For Pretow Hearings: Requests for a pretow hearing are to be
made to the office of the village manager. Requests for hearing by persons who
reside more than fifty (50) miles from the village may be made by mail. Forms
for such requests shall be made available at the police department. At the time
of making the request, the owner will be provided a hearing date and time by
mail or in person, as the circumstances require.
   D.   Appointment Of Hearing Officer: The village manager or his designee
shall appoint the hearing officer. In no case shall that hearing officer be an
individual who was involved in the initial decision to tow the vehicle. The
hearing officer shall have the authority to require the presence of the
enforcement officer who initiated the proposed tow or any other village
personnel. (Ord. 2012-08-25, 8-2-2012)
   E.   Nature Of Hearing: The hearing shall be informal in nature, and the
rules of evidence shall not apply. The hearing will not be determinative of, or
adjudicate, any citation relative to any vehicle. After receiving all relevant
evidence, the hearing officer shall make a written decision based upon a
preponderance of the evidence as to whether towing of the vehicle is authorized
by the laws of the state or the ordinances of the village, with a specific
statutory or ordinance section cited in the decision. The owner shall be
provided a copy of such pretow hearing decision.
   F.   Decision To Tow; Rates: If the preponderance of the evidence supports
towing and compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the hearing officer
shall direct that the vehicle be towed, with any towing and storage costs to
then be imposed upon the owner thereof. The fees to be charged for towing and
storage services shall be no more than the maximum rates set by the chief of
police pursuant to the provisions of subsection 6-5-11E of this chapter. The
owner of said vehicle having had such a hearing may avoid the towing by
immediately removing the vehicle from the improper location to a proper, lawful
location and correcting any unlawful condition of the vehicle.
   G.   Decision Not To Tow: If the preponderance of the evidence fails to
support towing of the vehicle, the Hearing Officer shall direct that the
vehicle shall not be towed. The Village shall furnish a copy of such decision
to the owner, who may place it inside the vehicle in a location plainly visible
from the outside, such as the dashboard or rear window. No vehicle about which
such a decision has been rendered shall be towed by the Village unless the
circumstances under which the decision was rendered have changed. If at some
subsequent time the Village should wish to tow the vehicle from the same
location, it shall follow the same procedures required for the towing of any
other similarly situated vehicle.
   H.   Reports And Documents Retained; Contesting Decisions: Originals or
copies of all notices, pretow hearing decisions, towing reports, and any
associated police reports or documents shall be retained by the Police
Department for a period of at least five (5) years after each hearing, or after
each tow if no hearing was requested or held. The Village or the owner may
contest the decision of the Hearing Officer in any manner provided by law.
(Ord. 98-3-7, 3-5-1998)
6-5-11: POSTTOW NOTICE FOR HAZARDOUS AND UNLAWFUL VEHICLES:
   A.   Mailing Or Delivery Of Notice: Notice pursuant to this section shall be
forwarded by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the
address of the owner of the vehicle as indicated in the most current
registration list of the Secretary of State unless the notice is personally
delivered to the owner, in which case the date and time of delivery and the
name of the police officer making the delivery shall be noted in the Police
Department records or reports. The notice shall be mailed within twenty four
(24) hours of the tow, in the manner provided in subsection 6-5-9A of this
chapter. In the event that the Village has towed an out of State hazardous or
unlawful vehicle, inquiry by computer, telephone or letter shall be made to the
Secretary of State of the particular jurisdiction for the furnishing of the
most current registered name and address of the owner of the vehicle, and
notice shall be mailed as provided herein to the address furnished.
   B.   Posting Of Signs Showing Hearing Rights: All approved towing service
operators shall prominently post at least one sign, with dimensions of at least
twelve inches by eighteen inches (12" x 18") indicating the opportunity and
procedures for a hearing to contest the validity of the towing of the vehicle.
The sign shall be placed in locations readily visible to the public transacting
business at any towing facility. If a towing service operator performs services
for more than one municipality, the information for contacting the various
appropriate village offices can be listed in one such sign.
   C.   Request For Posttow Hearings: Requests for hearings are to be made at
the office indicated on the notice within fifteen (15) days of the mailing or
personal delivery of the notification of tow, or release of the vehicle,
whichever occurs first; otherwise, the right to a hearing shall be deemed
waived. Requests for hearing by persons who reside more than fifty (50) miles
from the Village may be made in person or by mail received within the fifteen
(15) day period. (Ord. 98-3-7, 3-5-1998)
   D.   Release Of Vehicles: Before the owner or person entitled to possession
of any impounded vehicle shall be permitted to remove same, the owner or other
person entitled to possession shall furnish evidence of his identity, ownership
of the vehicle, or his right to possession, sign a receipt for the vehicle, and
pay the amount currently owed to the Village for its administrative processing
fee as required by subsection 5-5-6C of this Code and for towing and storage
fees owed to the towing service operator. The Chief of Police is authorized to
promulgate regulations as to the documents or other proof necessary to
establish these facts and collection of the administrative processing fee.
(Ord. 2006-11-50, 11-2-2006)
   E.   Establishment Of Maximum Towing And Storage Rates: The owner shall pay
fees to the towing service operator for towing and storage on police ordered
tows at rates that do not exceed maximum amounts to be administratively
established by the Chief of Police and which may be revised from time to time.
The basic rates for such fees shall be shown in the form and sign concerning
vehicle release requirements. However, nothing in this chapter is intended to
prevent a competitive towing service operator from charging less than the
established maximum rates for police ordered or any other tows. In arriving at
the maximum rates for various services, the Chief of Police shall consider such
matters as the prevalent market rates in the area for the different types of
vehicles, the types of storage and area requirements for categories such as
large trucks and commercial vehicles, and the relative difficulties and amount
of work required to perform various types of towing operations. For
particularly difficult or unusual towing jobs, such as large or serious
accidents, the Chief of Police is authorized to allow towing operators to
charge rates above those established for normal situations, which special
charges must be based upon the cost of services provided, taking into account
such matters as the man hours and equipment time required for the job. A towing
service operator must fully itemize in writing the details of such a billing at
special rates for a particularly difficult or unusual tow and supply a copy of
the itemized bill to the owner and to the Police Department. Any such special
rates charged must be customary in the towing industry in the area for the
nature and extent of the services provided. Every towing service operator and
the Police Department shall have available a copy of the complete current rate
schedule and any special rate policy established by the Chief of Police for
vehicle owners to view upon request. Pursuant to the requirements of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-216, the Chief of Police may authorize an
administrative fee of up to thirty dollars ($30.00) per vehicle if a records
search through the Secretary of State is completed and certified letter is sent
to the lienholder of record by towing service operators. (Ord. 2017-12-31, 12-
21-2017)
6-5-12: POSTTOW HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Opportunity For Hearing: The owner of a vehicle towed as an immediate
tow, by or pursuant to the authority of the Police Department as set forth
herein, shall be provided the opportunity for a posttow hearing to determine
the validity of such tow and any towing or storage charges. If the vehicle
owner desires an administrative hearing, the vehicle owner shall have ten (10)
days, weekends included from the date of the vehicle being towed to request an
administrative hearing. Said request must be in writing and be received by the
Winfield Police Department no later than the tenth day after the tow occurred.
The hearing will not be determinative of, or adjudicate, any citation issued
relative to any towed vehicle. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
   B.   Nature Of The Hearing And Hearing Officer: The nature of the hearing
and the appointment of the Hearing Officer shall be the same as set forth in
subsections 6-5-10D and E of this chapter.
   C.   Scheduling: The posttow hearing shall take place as follows:
      1.   In those instances where the vehicle has been released upon the
deposit of the full payment currently owed for towing and storage charges and
the owner has properly requested a hearing, the hearing shall take place within
fifteen (15) days after the release of such vehicle, unless the owner requests
a later date convenient to all parties.
      2.   In those instances where the vehicle remains impounded, the hearing
shall take place, at the option of the owner:
         a.   On the next day after an owner's demand for such hearing,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays; if such demand is made after three
o'clock (3:00) P.M. or if the unavailability of a necessary witness or evidence
creates a particular difficulty in conducting the hearing on the next calendar
day, then a hearing shall be held on the second day following the request,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays;
         b.   If acceptable to the owner, within fifteen (15) days of said
request on a date convenient to all parties.
   D.   Conduct Of Hearing: The Hearing Officer shall review all evidence
presented by the vehicle owner and the Police Department or other Municipal
employees and shall make a finding, based upon the preponderance of the
evidence presented, as to the lawful authority for the towing and storage of
the vehicle. The Village must establish such authority by a preponderance of
the evidence.
   E.   Hearing Decision: For each hearing, the Hearing Officer shall complete
a posttow hearing decision, attach such decision to the Police Department's
original vehicle towing report, and supply a copy of the decision to the owner
by personal delivery, if the owner is present, or by mail.
   F.   Reports And Documents Retained; Contesting Decisions: All originals or
copies of all notices, posttow hearing decisions, towing reports, and any
associated police reports or documents shall be retained by the Police
Department for a period of at least five (5) years after each hearing, or after
each tow if no hearing was requested or held. The Village or the owner may
contest the decision of the Hearing Officer in any manner provided by law.
   G.   Towing Services Subject To Ordinance: Notwithstanding any other
ordinance or statutory provisions to the contrary, any towing service operator
authorized to perform tows on behalf of the Village must perform its services
subject to the provisions of this chapter. However, the towing company shall
have the right to recover the reasonable value of its services for police
ordered tows if a tow or the charge for a tow is found by the Hearing Officer
or a court to be illegal and the towing service operator is required to return
the charge for the tow to the owner of the vehicle. (Ord. 98-3-7, 3-5-1998)
CHAPTER 6
ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Enforcement
6-6-2: Violation Citations
6-6-3: Vehicle Ownership; Prima Facie Proof
6-6-4: Records And Files Kept
6-6-5: Violations; Penalties
6-6-5-1: Nonmoving Traffic Violations
6-6-5-2: Alternative Penalty Settlement Procedure
6-6-6: Riding On Part Of Any Vehicle Not Intended For Passengers
6-6-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Police Department: It shall be the duty of the officers of the police
department or such officers as are assigned by the chief of police to enforce
all street traffic laws of the village and all of the state vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in this village.
   B.   Effect Of Traffic Control Devices On Enforcement:
      1.   No provision of this title for which official traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violation if the
official device is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by a reasonably observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that official traffic control devices are required, such section shall be
effective even though no devices are erected or in place.
      2.   Whenever official traffic control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to the provisions of this
title and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this title, unless
the contrary shall be established by competent evidence. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
6-6-2: VIOLATION CITATIONS:
   A.   Forms And Records Of Traffic Citations And Arrests:
      1.   The village shall provide books to include traffic citation forms
for notifying alleged violators to appear and answer to charges of violating
traffic laws and ordinances in the traffic court of this village, in accordance
with state law.
      2.   The village shall issue such books to the chief of police or his
duly authorized agent and shall maintain a record of every book so issued and
shall require a written receipt for every such book.
      3.   The chief of police shall be responsible for the issuance of such
books to individual members of the police department. The chief of police shall
require a written receipt for every book so issued and shall maintain a record
of every such book and each set of citations contained therein.
   B.   Illegal Cancellation Of Traffic Citations: It shall be unlawful for any
person to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any
manner other than as provided by this section. However, the chief of police is
authorized in his discretion to void a parking violation citation under the
following circumstances only:
If the person to whom a parking violation citation has been issued requests in
writing on the form provided by the Winfield police department a review of said
citation, and upon investigation of the circumstances described by complainant,
voiding the ticket appears justified, the chief of police may in his discretion
approve the request and void the citation. The written request must be received
at the Winfield police department during regular business hours prior to the
final notice date set forth on said citation or the citation cannot be voided.
(Ord. 91-6-3, 6-27-1991)
   C.   Failure To Obey Citation: It shall be unlawful for any person to
violate his written promise to appear given to an officer upon the issuance of
a traffic citation regardless of the disposition of the charge for which such
citation was originally issued.
   D.   Citation On Illegally Stopped, Parked Or Unattended Vehicle: Whenever
any motor vehicle without driver is found in violation of any of the
restrictions imposed by ordinance of this Village or by State law, the officer
finding such vehicle shall take its registration number and may take any other
information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user, and shall
conspicuously affix to such vehicle a traffic citation on a form provided by
the Village.
If a violator of the restrictions on Village vehicle license, stopping,
standing or parking under the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in
response to a traffic citation affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of
five (5) days, the Chief of Police or his agent shall send to the owner of the
motor vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a copy of the citation
informing him of the violation and warning him that in the event such copy is
disregarded for a period of five (5) days, a notice to appear in court will be
issued. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
6-6-3: VEHICLE OWNERSHIP; PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
In any prosecution charged in a violation of any law or regulation governing
the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of such law or regulation,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time
of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle
was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for
the time during which, such violation occurred. This presumption shall apply
only when the procedure as prescribed in this section and section
6-6-2 of this chapter has been followed. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
6-6-4: RECORDS AND FILES KEPT:
   A.   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of the
Traffic Ordinances of this Village or of the State Vehicle Laws of which any
person has been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all
such alleged offenses. Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types
of violations and the total of each. Said record shall accumulate during at
least a five (5) year period and from that time on the record shall be
maintained complete for at least the most recent five (5) year period.
   B.   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year, a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms. All such
records and reports shall be public records.
   C.   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable record of all traffic
accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions and complaints reported for each
driver. It shall study the cases of all drivers charged with frequent or
serious violations of the traffic laws or involved in frequent traffic
accidents or any serious accident, and shall attempt to discover the reasons
therefor, and shall take whatever steps are lawful and reasonable to prevent
the same or to have the licenses of such persons suspended or revoked. Such
records shall accumulate during at least a five (5) year period and from that
time on such records shall be maintained complete for at least the most recent
five (5) year period. (Ord. 507, 2-9-1978)
6-6-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this title shall be
punished by a fine as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
6-6-5-1: NONMOVING TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Specific Offenses Enumerated:
      1.   Any person accused of violating or failure to comply with the
following offenses:
         a.   Improper parking, except violations of subsections 6-2-2A and J
of this title;
         b.   Overtime parking in a nonmetered zone;
         c.   Parking in a no parking zone;
         d.   Leaving a motor vehicle unattended;
         e.   Overtime parking in a metered zone; (Ord. 2006-12-60, 12-7-2006)
         f.   No person shall operate any motor vehicle in the Village so as to
cause unnecessary noise by racing of the engine;
shall be fined as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code.
      2.   Any person who shall violate the prohibitions against unauthorized
parking in a handicapped zone shall be fined as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code.
      3.   Any person who shall violate subsection 6-2-2A or J of this title
shall be fined as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
   B.   Methods Of Payment: Pursuant to title 13 of this Code, all payments of
fines for nonmoving traffic violations may be made either by mailing a check or
money order for the required amount, together with the violator's copy of the
notice, to the Village of Winfield, 27W465 Jewell Road, Winfield, IL 60190, or
by paying the same in person at the Village Hall during regular business hours.
   C.   Receipts: Upon receipt of the amount of the fine, the Village Collector
shall issue a receipt for the money so paid.
   D.   Collection Agency: Upon failure to comply with a final warning notice
from the Village to pay the designated fine for a violation as described
herein, the collection of this debt may be turned over to a collection agency
or may be prosecuted as prescribed by law. The Village Manager shall promulgate
any necessary rules and regulations regarding the implementation and
administration of this practice. (Ord. 2006-12-60, 12-7-2006)
6-6-5-2: ALTERNATIVE PENALTY SETTLEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Any person, pursuant to the issuance of a uniform complaint ticket, who
is accused of a violation of any of the Illinois Vehicle Code offenses listed
in section
13-1-3 of this Code, except a traffic offense for which a court appearance is
required pursuant to rule 551 of the Illinois Supreme Court rules, may settle
and compromise that ticket by paying to the Village a sum in accordance with
section
13-1-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2012-08-21, 8-2-2012)
   B.   The alternative penalty settlement procedure shall be in lieu of
instituting a prosecution in court for the alleged offense. If the person
accused of the violation does not settle the claim, the uniform traffic
complaint or notice to appear will be processed for that violation and
otherwise that person shall be subject to the general penalties set forth by
the applicable ordinances of Winfield. (Ord. 2005-02-02, 2-3-2005)
   C.   The violations of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes, Illinois Vehicle
Code, and Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act, are adopted by reference as
shown in section
13-1-3 of this Code and shall be subject to the alternative penalty compliance
procedures described herein. (Ord. 2005-02-02, 2-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2012-08-18,
8-2-2012)
6-6-6: RIDING ON PART OF ANY VEHICLE NOT INTENDED FOR PASSENGERS:
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in a space intended for merchandise. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-
1-2016)
CHAPTER 7
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Places Of Operation
6-7-3: Exclusions
6-7-4: Limitations On Manner Of Operations
6-7-5: Equipment
6-7-6: Penalty
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings ascribed to them below:
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV): A motor vehicle, the use of which is prohibited upon
public streets, roadways and highways by the State, having any combination of
three (3) or more wheels, treads or wheels and treads, designed to traverse
varied terrain.
GO-KART: Any motorized four-wheel vehicle, the use of which is prohibited on
streets and highways by the State, which is not an ATV, and which is designed
to carry one or more persons.
MINIBIKE, INCLUDING DIRT MOTORCYCLES: Any motorized two-wheeled vehicle, the
use of which is prohibited on public streets, roadways and highways of the
State, designed to carry one or more persons.
OPERATE: To ride in or on, and control the speed and direction of any
recreational vehicle.
OPERATOR: Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of any
recreational vehicle.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
limited liability company, or group of individuals acting together for a common
purpose, or an organization of any kind.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any ATV, "go-kart", minibike or "snowmobile" as defined
herein.
SNOWMOBILE: Any motorized vehicle the use of which is prohibited upon public
streets, public roadways and highways by the laws of the State, designed for
travel on snow or ice, steered by skis or rudders. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
6-7-2: PLACES OF OPERATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any recreational
vehicle:
      1.   Within seven hundred fifty feet (750') of any residential dwelling;
      2.   On the private property of another, whether or not open to the
public, without the express written consent of the owner, lessee or other
person in control of the private property;
      3.   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, sidewalks,
recreational areas and other public property without the express written
consent of the proper public authority;
      4.   On or across railroad right-of-way;
      5.   Before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
6-7-3: EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   The operation of ATVs and snowmobiles shall not be subject to the
prohibitions set forth in section
6-7-2 of this chapter if they are:
      1.   Owned by a unit of government and operated by a public employee in
the course of that public employee's duties;
      2.   When owned and operated by the homeowner, landscaper, or contractor
and being exclusively used for landscaping or construction activities during
hours when such work is permitted under this Code. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
6-7-4: LIMITATIONS ON MANNER OF OPERATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a recreational vehicle:
      1.   At a speed greater than reasonable or prudent under the conditions
then existing and in no case at a speed greater than twenty (20) miles per
hour;
      2.   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or to cause injury or damage thereto;
      3.   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs. (Ord.
2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
6-7-5: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   No person shall operate a recreational vehicle unless it is equipped
with all of the following:
      1.   A muffler in good working order which prevents excessive noise;
      2.   Adequate brakes;
      3.   Adequate lighting. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
6-7-6: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined
as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code for each such offense. (Per correspondence dated 7-31-2018)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Village Datum
7-1-2: Sidewalk Construction
7-1-3: Driveways In Residential Districts
7-1-4: Road Extensions
7-1-5: Mailboxes On Public Rights Of Way
7-1-6: Signs On Public Rights Of Way
7-1-1: VILLAGE DATUM:
   A.   The United States geological survey (USGS) and United States coast and
geodetic survey (USC&GS) datum is hereby established as a basis to which all
levels and grades hereafter used in constructing local or public improvements
within the limits of the village shall be referred.
   B.   All grades hereinafter fixed or established shall be referred to the
datum plane herein established. (1994 Code)
7-1-2: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Permission To Construct Required:
      1.   No person shall build any sidewalk in the village without first
having obtained permission to do so from the village president, and all
sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the "Standard Specifications
For Road And Bridge Construction", latest revision as adopted by the Illinois
department of transportation. (Ord. 3, 5-26-1921; amd. 1994 Code)
      2.   Any person who shall violate this section shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) and not more than twenty
five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 3, 5-26-1921)
   B.   Construction Specifications: All sidewalks hereinafter constructed upon
the streets and avenues in the village shall be constructed according to the
following specifications:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be constructed in conformance to section 624 of the
most recent edition of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" as adopted by the Illinois department of transportation.
      2.   Sidewalks shall be five feet (5') wide and a minimum five inches
(5") thick.
      3.   Sidewalks shall be constructed with a minimum three inch (3") thick
aggregate base with a CA-6 gradation.
      4.   All newly constructed sidewalks shall be provided with concrete
approach ramps at all intersections.
      5.   All sidewalks shall be constructed at a uniform slope of two percent
(2%) from curb side (or street side) to the property side. (1994 Code)
   C.   Unlawfully Constructed Sidewalks: Any sidewalk that may have been
constructed in violation of the standard specifications referred to in
subsection A1 of this section shall be condemned and removed or altered by an
order of the president and board of trustees at the expense of the person who
may have unlawfully so constructed it. (Ord. 3, 5-26-1921; amd. 1994 Code)
7-1-3: DRIVEWAYS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Compliance With Provisions: No driveway existing on
the effective date hereof shall be enlarged, extended, altered or relocated,
and no new driveway shall be constructed unless a permit therefor is applied
for and issued by the village and the applicable fee paid and unless the
requirements of this section are met.
   B.   Restrictions On Driveways:
      1.   Width: No driveway shall exceed a width of twenty feet (20') at any
place where it comes into contact with or traverses any public easement or
right of way.
      2.   Number Of Driveways Per Lot: At no more than one location per lot,
unless the lot exceeds one hundred feet (100') in width as "lot width" is
defined in the Winfield zoning ordinance 1 , shall a driveway come into contact
with or traverse a public easement or right of way. If the lot exceeds one
hundred feet (100') in width, then one additional driveway shall be permitted.
   C.   Unlawful Acts:
      1.   Acts Deemed Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for anyone to construct,
alter, extend, relocate or use any driveway regulated by this section or cause
same to be done contrary to or in conflict with or in violation of any of the
provisions of this section.
      2.   Notice Of Violation: The building official shall serve a notice of
violation or order on the person responsible for the construction, alteration,
extension, relocation or use of a driveway in violation of the provisions of
this section or in violation of a permit issued under the provisions of this
section, and such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action
or condition and the abatement of the violation.
      3.   Prosecution Of Violation: If the notice of violation is not complied
with promptly, the building official may request the legal counsel of the
village to institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to
restrain, correct or abate such violation or to require the removal or
termination of the unlawful use of the driveway in violation of the provisions
of this section or of the order or direction made pursuant hereto. (Ord. 736,
4-23-1987)
   D.   Violations And Penalties: Any person who shall violate a provision of
this section, or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, or
who shall erect, construct, alter, extend or relocate a driveway in violation
of an approved plan or directive of the building official, or of a permit
issued under the provisions of this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code or by imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months, or both
such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense. (Ord. 2006-12-60, 12-7-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-1-4 of this code.
7-1-4: ROAD EXTENSIONS:
The procedure for road extension along property not owned by a person desiring
to extend a road shall be as follows:
   A.   Preliminary Survey; Costs:
      1.   If the owner of one or more lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of land
within the corporate limits of the village desires to construct a road fronting
on a lot, block, tract or parcel of land within the corporate limits of the
village, which the aforesaid owner does not own, he shall have the engineer for
the village make a preliminary survey of the premises and report to the village
board of trustees as to the feasibility of such construction and the property
owner desiring such construction shall pay the cost of such preliminary
engineering service.
      2.   If it appears from the report of the engineer for the village that
the road extension is feasible, the property owner requesting such extension,
if he desires to proceed with such construction fronting on land which he does
not own, shall direct the village to estimate the cost of the same, and said
property owner will deposit with the village the amount of the engineer's
estimated fee.
      3.   When the engineer for the village has completed the plans and
specifications for the construction of the extension of the roads, and
estimated the cost thereof, the property owner requesting such extension shall
be advised of the estimated cost of such work; and, if he decides not to
proceed further, the money he has deposited will be used to pay the engineer's
charges for preparing the plans, specifications and estimate of the cost of
said work.
   B.   Bids For Construction; Payment Of Costs: If the estimate of the
engineer for the village is acceptable to the property owner requesting the
road extension, the village board of trustees will take bids for the
construction of the work specified in the plans and specifications prepared by
the engineer for the village, and will exhibit such bids, when received, to the
property owner. If one of the bids is acceptable, the property owner will
deposit with the village an amount of money sufficient to pay the entire cost
of constructing said extension, including engineering, inspection and legal
fees, if any, and the village treasurer shall hold the money so deposited in a
separate bank account to be used for no purpose other than to pay for the cost
of constructing the road extension.
   C.   Village Contract For Construction: Upon the deposit of the money
provided for in subsection A2 of this section, the village board of trustees
will enter into a contract with the successful bidder for the construction of
the requested road extension, and the work shall be done under the supervision
of the engineer for the village. Payments for the work shall be made by the
village from the funds deposited therewith upon payment estimates from time to
time received from the engineer for the village, and which have been approved
by the village board of trustees.
   D.   Village Contract With Property Owner: If the road extension requested
by the property owner, and for which he is willing to pay, passes or can be
adapted to serve any property not owned by said property owner, the village
will enter into a contract with the property owner, which contract shall be in
a form prepared by the village and approved by the village board and property
owner. (Ord. 228, 6-11-1959; amd. 1994 Code)
7-1-5: MAILBOXES ON PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms are
defined:
MAILBOX: Any standard and ornamental mailbox structure which is placed, located
or maintained in, on or over any portion of the right of way.
PERMISSIBLE MAILBOX: All privately constructed and installed ornamental mailbox
installations.
PERMITTED MAILBOX: Standard mailbox installations installed in accordance with
subsection C of this section.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas existing or acquired by dedication, by
easement or by fee simple by a public body for highway, pedestrian, bicyclist
or public utility purposes.
   B.   Unauthorized Mailboxes Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
to erect or cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained within the
limits of the public right of way, any mailbox except a permitted mailbox or
permissible mailbox.
   C.   Permitted Mailboxes: The following mailboxes upon the public right of
way shall be allowed as permitted mailboxes: standard mailboxes installed in
accordance with the applicable design criteria established by the local United
States post office and with the following safety standards. Standard mailbox
installations shall: 1) be constructed to promote breakaway, bending or
otherwise yield in order to minimize damage and harm to motor vehicles and
their occupants in the event of a collision or impact with the support and 2)
utilize one of the following support structures or such other similar structure
as may be approved by the village manager or his designee as comparably safe:
      1.   Wooden post (minimum of 4 inches by 4 inches and a maximum of 6
inches by 6 inches).
      2.   Light gauge hollow cast iron, galvanized steel or painted steel pipe
(maximum of 3 inch diameter).
   D.   Permissible Ornamental Mailbox Installations: Nonstandard mailbox
installations placed or constructed in the public right of way by a private
individual after applying for a permit and complying with all applicable
village approval requirements shall be allowable as permissible ornamental
mailbox installations.
      1.   Permit Requirements: No new ornamental mailbox installations shall
be constructed in the right of way after August 31, 2014, until the required
revocable right of way permit and license agreement and a building permit has
been applied for by the adjacent property owner and issued by the village.
      2.   Design And Construction Requirements: The design of any ornamental
mailbox installation permitted and constructed in the right of way after August
31, 2014, shall comply with the following restrictions and requirements:
         a.   The maximum width of any face of the ornamental mailbox
installation shall be twenty eight inches (28").
         b.   The maximum height of the ornamental mailbox installation shall
be five feet (5') measured from the adjacent road surface.
         c.   No electrical lighting shall be incorporated into any ornamental
mailbox installation.
         d.   Reflectors shall be securely affixed to ornamental mailbox
installations as required by the village building inspector and public works
department.
         e.   All applicable design/installation criteria established by the
local United States post office.
   E.   Maintenance Requirements: All permissible and permitted mailboxes shall
be maintained by the adjacent property owner in good repair, structurally sound
and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the public health, safety or
welfare, including, but not limited to, maintaining all structural elements,
exterior elements and surface coatings, such as paint.
   F.   Village Reimbursement For Mailbox Damage: At the property owner's
option, the village will either reimburse the owner of a mailbox damaged by a
village snowplow or from any other village utility or road work up to a maximum
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) upon receipt of a sales receipt or invoice
showing the actual costs incurred by the mailbox owner for repair or
replacement of a village damaged mailbox or the village will replace the
mailbox.
   G.   Additional Provisions: This section is intended to and shall be in
addition to all other ordinances, rules and regulations concerning
encroachments and shall not be construed as repealing or rescinding any other
ordinance or part of any ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
   H.   Violations: Any person violating this section shall be fined not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
for each and every day during which a violation continues or exists. (Ord.
2014-07-24, 7-17-2014)
7-1-6: SIGNS ON PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
No sign, other than signs placed by the village or other governments or
agencies of government with jurisdiction over the public right of way, may be
posted on any public appurtenances or erected within, upon or hanging over any
public right of way or public property. (Ord. 2016-06-15, 6-2-2016)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Fee; Term
7-2-2: Bond And Insurance Requirements
7-2-3: Manner Of Excavation
7-2-4: Restoration Of Excavated Area
7-2-5: Limitations In Street Excavations
7-2-6: Exemptions From Provisions
7-2-7: Penalty
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; TERM:
   A.   No person shall make or cause to be made any excavation for the purpose
of the installation or rehabilitation of water, sanitary or storm sewer service
1  in any public easement, all or a portion of which is a dedicated street, or
any opening in any public curbs, streets, gutters or other public improvements
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the village and depositing a
cash bond and evidence of insurance as required by section
7-2-2 of this chapter.
   B.   The fee for the permit required by this section shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) and shall be paid to the village at the time the permit is
issued. Such permit shall expire on the sixtieth day after the date on which it
is issued. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8 of this code for water and sewer regulations.
7-2-2: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond: Before a permit required by section
7-2-1 of this chapter is issued, the permit applicant must deposit a cash bond
with the village in any of the following applicable amounts:
      1.   Installation or rehabilitation of water service or storm sewer
service for work that does not require any opening in any public curb, street,
gutter or other public improvement, but where damage may occur to those public
improvements as a consequence of that work: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
      2.   Installation or rehabilitation of sanitary sewer service for work
that does not require any opening in any public curb, street, gutter or other
public improvement, but where damage may occur to those public improvements as
a consequence of that work: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      3.   Installation or rehabilitation of water, storm or sanitary sewer
service where an opening in a public curb, street, gutter or other public
improvement is required: The amount of this deposit shall be determined by the
engineer for the village and shall be based upon his best estimate of the cost
to repair the opening.
   B.   Insurance: Prior to the issuance of a permit, a permittee must furnish
the village satisfactory written evidence that the permittee or his contractor
has in force and will maintain during the life of the permit and construction
public liability insurance with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for personal injury and property damage and workers'
compensation insurance in the statutory amount. (Ord. 656, 2-23-1984)
7-2-3: MANNER OF EXCAVATION:
   A.   Generally: Removal and replacement of pavement, driveways and sidewalks
shall be accomplished in accordance with applicable ordinances of the village.
   B.   Duration Of Street Opening: The permit applicant shall indicate on the
application the anticipated duration of any opening, which time shall not
exceed eight (8) consecutive hours without specific written approval from the
village. All openings in any street or sidewalk shall be backfilled to grade
before work is terminated each day, unless written approval is obtained from
the village to close and barricade the street or sidewalk or some portion
thereof.
   C.   Hours Excavations Permitted; Building Inspector To Be Notified: It is
the responsibility of the contractor to schedule his work so that any opening
of any sidewalk or street and any closing or backfilling of any sidewalk or
street will only be accomplished during hours that the Winfield Village Hall is
open for business so that the Winfield building inspector can inspect the
opening and closing or backfilling. It is also the responsibility of the
contractor to notify the building inspector twenty four (24) hours in advance
of the time the street or sidewalk will be opened and closed or backfilled.
   D.   Safety Provisions: It is the responsibility of the contractor to erect
sufficient warnings and barriers to alert motorists and pedestrians to the
construction area. If the excavation or opening remains open overnight,
appropriate barricades with flashing signals shall be erected by the
contractor. Further, the Village may require the contractor to undertake
additional safety provisions such as detour signs, metal plates over openings
and other precautionary measures. (Ord. 656, 2-23-1984)
7-2-4: RESTORATION OF EXCAVATED AREA:
   A.   It is the responsibility of the permittee to provide backfill and base
material in accordance with subsection B of this section for any excavation
created in the right-of-way. At the election of the Village, either the Village
or the permittee shall install final surfaces. If the final base course is
installed by the Village, the cost of doing so shall be paid by the permittee
and shall be deducted from the deposit required in subsection 7-2-2A of this
chapter. Costs include labor, material and any required equipment rental. If
the permittee is instructed to do the final surface, it shall be with materials
prescribed by the Village. After all work has been completed satisfactorily,
including the final surface course, the deposit or any unexpended balance due
the permittee from the deposit required in subsection 7-2-2A of this chapter
shall be refunded to him.
   B.   In the case of street openings, the permittee shall notify the Village
before backfilled and upon the completion of backfilling operations. Backfill
and base materials shall be as prescribed by the Village and in all cases
openings shall be backfilled to the existing surface of the street. If the
permittee or his contractor installs the final base course, then the Village
will retain the entire deposit or portion thereof sufficient to ensure
satisfactory restoration of all surfaces for a period not to exceed one year.
Any costs expended by the Village during the aforementioned period to restore
the surface course to grade shall be deducted from the deposit.
   C.   If the contractor fails to backfill the opening within the time
specified in the permit, the Village reserves the right to backfill the opening
and the cost of doing so will be charged to the permittee and deducted from the
deposit. Additionally, any safety measures such as barricades, detour signs,
etc., not supplied by the permittee but supplied by the Village shall be
charged to the permittee on a rental basis. (Ord. 656, 2-23-1984)
7-2-5: LIMITATIONS IN STREET EXCAVATIONS:
Excavations in streets or alleys shall not be permitted for any conduit and/or
pipe less than six inches (6") in diameter unless specifically authorized in
writing by the Village. (Ord. 656, 2-23-1984)
7-2-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   Village Contracts: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
work done by or pursuant to a contract with the Village. (Ord. 656, 2-23-1984)
   B.   Utilities: All public utilities and any quasi-public utilities
franchised by the Village shall be exempt from this chapter and shall be
subject to chapter 4 of this title or to the terms of the franchise, as
applicable. (Ord. 2006-9-45, 9-21-2006)
   C.   Driveway Extensions: This chapter does not apply to extensions of or
additions to existing driveways that do not require any cutting of any curb,
paved road surface or sidewalk. (Ord. 656, 2-23-1984)
7-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code for every day of such violation. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-
2019)
CHAPTER 3
PLANTING TREES IN PARKWAYS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Tree Planting Permit Issuance, Conditions
7-3-2: Permit Required
7-3-3: Penalty
7-3-1: TREE PLANTING PERMIT ISSUANCE, CONDITIONS:
The Village Manager is hereby authorized to issue a permit, without fee, to any
person applying for permission to plant a tree or trees in that portion of the
public right-of-way not devoted to vehicular or pedestrian traffic, upon the
following terms and conditions:
   A.   The applicant must be the owner of the property adjoining the parkway
in which the tree or trees are proposed to be planted.
   B.   The applicant shall identify the particular species of tree for which a
permit is sought, and that species must be one of the recommended tree species
set forth in the Subdivision Control Ordinance 1 .
   C.   With reasonable accuracy the application shall show the location where
the tree or trees will be planted, and that location or those locations shall
meet the restrictions for location of parkway trees as contained in the
Subdivision Control Ordinance. In addition to those restrictions, no tree may
be planted in any drainage ditch and shall not be planted at any location which
will unreasonably interfere with the public use and enjoyment of the public
right-of-way. (Ord. 88-6-1, 6-16-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-3-19 of this Code.
7-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to plant a tree in the public right-of-way
without a permit as provided herein. It is likewise unlawful to plant a tree
that violates any of the terms and conditions of this chapter and of the permit
issued pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 88-6-1, 6-16-1988)
7-3-3: PENALTY:
Anyone violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as
provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code for each offense, and each day that such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 4
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose And Scope
7-4-2: Definitions
7-4-3: Annual Registration Required
7-4-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
7-4-5: Action On Permit Applications
7-4-6: Effect Of Permit
7-4-7: Revised Permit Drawings
7-4-8: Insurance
7-4-9: Indemnification
7-4-10: Security
7-4-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
7-4-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
7-4-13: General Construction Standards
7-4-14: Traffic Control
7-4-15: Location Of Facilities
7-4-16: Construction Methods And Materials
7-4-17: Vegetation Control
7-4-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
7-4-19: Cleanup And Restoration
7-4-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
7-4-21: Variances
7-4-22: Penalties
7-4-23: Enforcement
7-4-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights of way and the village as a whole.
   B.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public
rights of way within the jurisdiction of the village, except as may be
otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or similar agreement.
   C.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   D.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   E.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all policies,
resolutions, ordinances, or parts thereof adopted prior hereto that are in
conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   F.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   G.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society For Testing And Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area shall consist of
a shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The codified ordinances of the village of Winfield.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The village director of public works or his or her
designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: Any work that obstructs the right of way or causes a
material adverse effect on the use of the right of way for its intended use.
Such work may include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other
cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment,
devices, or structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of
the soil, and shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a
manner that does not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including track and
rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances
thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights
of way under this chapter, except those owned by the village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A ground mounted facility that is not a crossing
facility, an overhead facility, or a parallel facility, such as an antenna,
transformer, pump, equipment enclosure, equipment cabinet, meter station or
similar ground mounted appurtenance.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A roadway providing access to land adjacent to the highway where
it is precluded by control of access on highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity, form,
concentration, location, or other characteristic, is determined by the director
of public works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A right of way used for vehicular traffic, including rural or urban
roads or streets, whether classified as arterial, collector, minor or local.
Highway includes all highway land and improvements, including roadways, ditches
and embankments, bridges, drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective
structures and appurtenances necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
ILCC: Illinois commerce commission.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more arterial highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
OVERHEAD FACILITY: A facility that is mounted on a pole.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or for
the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
7-4-4 and
7-4-5 of this chapter.
PERSON OR ENTITY: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by
order of court.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility to its original condition.
RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly
used for utility purposes, including utility easements in which the village has
the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of
facilities other than those of the village. Right of way shall not include any
real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include village buildings, fixtures,
and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated
in the right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
7-4-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two- way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include the provision of cable services through a cable system as
defined in the cable communications act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and
following), as now or hereafter amended, or cable or other programming services
subject to an open video system fee payable to the village through an open
video system as defined in the rules of the federal communications commission
(47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person who installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right of way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Any person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: Any person or entity owning or operating any "facility", as defined in
this section.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The village of Winfield.
VILLAGE STANDARDS: Any codes, ordinances or regulations of the village which
are applicable to construction of utility facilities in village rights of way.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 07-11-62,
11-15-2007)
7-4-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the director of public works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person and
evidence of insurance as required in section
7-4-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 07-11-
62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any village
right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the "right of way" (as defined in this chapter), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the director of public works and obtaining a permit
from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No
permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the
right of way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as proprietary or
confidential by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A description of the proposed work and the purposes and intent of
the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The scope and
detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and character of
the work to be performed, as determined by the director of public works, with
special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected or impacted by the work
proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ILCC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
7-4-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in section
7-4-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
7-4-21 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ILCC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control and the metropolitan water reclamation
district and other local or state entities with jurisdiction, have been
satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00). No
application fee is required to be paid by any telecommunications retailer that
is paying to the village the simplified municipal telecommunications tax or the
optional state telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to
the telecommunications municipal infrastructure maintenance fee act, or by any
electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure
maintenance fee pursuant to the electricity infrastructure maintenance fee act.
(Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the director of
public works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the director of public works shall reject such application in
writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the director of public works is
satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter
and all applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the
director of public works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the director of public works, that the construction proposed
under the application shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The director of
public works shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed, and subject to the variance
procedure if applicable.
      2.   Except in cases where a variance is required, in the event that the
director of public works fails to provide such specification of location to the
telecommunications retailer within either: a) ten (10) days after service of
notice to the village by the telecommunications retailer in the case of work
not involving excavation for new construction or b) twenty five (25) days after
service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case of work
involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications retailer may
commence work without obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section
7-4-4 of this chapter, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances and
regulations. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted, No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way to the
extent of the village's property rights therein. The permit does not create a
property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the rights
of others who may have an interest in the public rights of way, including,
without limitation, such rights as may exist by virtue of 605 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/9-113 (the Illinois highway code).
   B.   Duration: No permit under this chapter shall be valid for a period
longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the village, with such village
representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights of way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any material
respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and specifications
submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall submit a revised set
of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90) days after the
completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with section
7-4-21 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional noncontributory insureds on the policies
listed in subsections A1 and A2 of this section. The utility's insurance shall
be primary, and any village policies of insurance shall be deemed secondary.
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for environmental liability;
      3.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      4.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      5.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Manager of such intent to cancel or not
to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act. Self-insurance shall be
primary, and any village policies of insurance shall be deemed secondary.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-
2007)
7-4-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the sole negligence, misconduct or breach of
this chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the director of public works, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the village estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the director of
public works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals From Cash Security Funds: The village, upon fourteen (14)
days' advance written notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention
to exercise withdrawal rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount
from the security fund if the fund is a cash security fund, provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the fourteen
(14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment Of Cash Security Funds: Within fourteen (14) days after
receipt of written notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn
from the cash security fund, the permittee shall restore the cash security fund
to the amount specified in subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest On Cash Security Funds: The permittee may request that any and
all interest accrued on the amount in the cash security fund be returned to the
permittee by the village, upon written request for said withdrawal to the
village, provided that any such withdrawal does not reduce the cash security
fund below the minimum balance required in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Cash Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the cash security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the cash security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become
the property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable
costs, loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation,
provided that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be
refunded to the permittee.
   H.   Other Security Funds/Withdrawals; Replenishment: Renewal and closing of
letter of credit or surety bond security funds shall be governed by the terms
of the letter of credit or surety bond.
   I.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-
15-2007)
7-4-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the public rights of way and restore the rights
of way to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such
removal to the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice
of revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of
this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the village or a
contractor designated by the village may, at the option of the village: 1)
correct the deficiencies; 2) upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the
permittee, remove the subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less
than thirty (30) days' notice to the permittee of failure to cure the
noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the village. The permittee
shall be liable in all events to the village for all costs of correction,
removal or abandonment. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 07-11-62,
11-15-2007)
7-4-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Village Standards: In addition, all applicable "village standards", as
defined in this chapter, shall also apply to construction in the rights of way.
   C.   Interpretation Of Village Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the director of public works shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the director of public works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a
facility in the future. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the public rights of way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
7-4-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection:
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the director of public works determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
village's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Culverts Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities shall not be
located in culverts or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: If a variance has been
granted, an overhead power or communication facility may cross a highway only
if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ILCC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR 192.707 (1989)).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   Immediately upon filing a permit application which includes a
freestanding facility, the utility shall meet with the director of public works
and schedule an on site review. In accordance with the standards and purposes
of this chapter, the village may restrict the location and size of any
freestanding facility located within a right of way, as appropriate to mitigate
the impact upon the right of way and adjoining property.
      2.   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities, including
freestanding facilities may be installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location and will employ
suitable design and materials to provide the greatest protection of aesthetic
qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting safety.
Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting armless,
single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and cable.
Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever practicable;
the installation of additional utility poles is strongly discouraged.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the highway user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the director
of public works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall
be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or
jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly
marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved shall be bored under or
around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" or with village standards, whichever standards are more
restrictive.
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the director of public works.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction" or with village standards, whichever standards
are more restrictive. When excavated material is hauled away or is unsuitable
for backfill, suitable granular backfill as determined by the director of
public works shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the director of public works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
director of public works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts:
         a.   Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair shall be
permitted on a highway only if:
            (1)   Required by sound engineering judgment, as determined by the
director of public works; and
            (2)   Appropriate traffic control measures are approved by the
director of public works.
         b.   If a variance to the limitations set forth in this subsection A4
is permitted under section
7-4-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
            (1)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the director of public works.
            (2)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as
soon as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be
provided immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or
the restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
            (3)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
            (4)   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service    18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by village)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code 305 (formerly
general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled "rules for
construction of electric power and communication lines", and the national
electrical safety code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: If overhead facilities have been permitted
by the village under section
7-4-15 of this chapter, the overhead power or communication facilities shall
use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles shall
be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois" and village standards.
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way by
variance, shall be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1')
(305 mm) in width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation
free area may be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty
plastic or similar material approved by the director of public works. With the
approval of the director of public works, shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for
ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" and village standards, the
requirements of the Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established
by other official regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right of way
prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public
or an obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and
other property. If material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval
must be obtained from the village. No materials may be stored in the floodway
or floodplain.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the director of public works
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of construction
shall be between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 07-11-
62, 11-15-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
7-4-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations and, additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society Of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the director of public works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently
remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility facilities within
the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities have determined that such
removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably necessary for the
construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any village improvement
in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon, the rights of way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights of
way shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the village shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village
within ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the village may
direct the utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the director
of public works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of
the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not
direct the utility that the abandoned facility be removed, the abandoning
utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of all or any
portion of the facility by another utility or person at the village's sole
discretion. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the utility
shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain in a timely
manner and to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the director of public works. Such cleanup
and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right of way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project and as per village standards. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
director of public works or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the director of
public works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The director of public works shall decide
whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified
in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The director of public works may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the director of public works may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Director
of Public Works under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to
appeal to the Board of Trustees, or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
Village Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order,
requirement, decision or determination. The Board of Trustees shall commence
its consideration of the appeal at the Council's next regularly scheduled
meeting occurring at least seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The
Board of Trustees shall timely decide the appeal. (Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
7-4-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as provided in
section
13-1-4 of this Code. There may be times when the Village will incur delay or
other costs, including third party claims, because the utility will not or
cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the utility
shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action
is appropriate, the utility shall bear the Village's costs of damages and its
costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing the
facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or
commission may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the
Village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs
apportioned to it. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
7-4-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-11-62, 11-15-2007)
CHAPTER 5
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose And Scope
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
7-5-4: Permit Required
7-5-5: Application Fees
7-5-6: Exceptions To Applicability
7-5-7: Pre-Existing Agreements
7-5-8: Annual Recurring Rate
7-5-9: Abandonment
7-5-10: Dispute Resolution
7-5-11: Indemnification
7-5-12: Insurance
7-5-13: Security Fund
7-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards, regulations and procedures for the siting and collocation of small
wireless facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's jurisdiction, or
outside the rights-of-way on property zoned by the Village exclusively for
commercial or industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small
Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, Public Act 100-0585. This chapter only
applies to small wireless facilities for which an application for collocation
is filed on or after June 1, 2018.
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict, but only with respect to small wireless facilities
for which an application is filed on or after June 1, 2018.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to an authority for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
AUTHORITY: A unit of local government that has jurisdiction and control for use
of public rights-of-way as provided by the Illinois Highway Code for placements
within public rights-of-way or has zoning or land use control for placements
not within public rights-of-way.
AUTHORITY UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by an authority in
public rights-of-way.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the authority
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned and operated by the Village in
public rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by an authority to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust or other entity or organization, including an authority.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include authority-owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the authority.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and subject to
administrative review, except as provided in subsection 7-5-4A4 of this chapter
regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to zoning review or
approval if they are collocated: a) in rights-of-way in any zone, or b) outside
rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
(Ord. 2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the Village to
collocate a small wireless facility. An application received and processed, and
permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions and requirements:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The Village Manager or his
designee, after review and consultation with the Public Works Department,
Police Department, and other public safety agencies, shall reserve space on
Village owned utility poles for future public safety uses. Such reservation may
preclude collocation of small wireless facilities if the Village reasonably
determines that any such reserved utility poles cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the Village as a material condition of any permit
application to collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or
wireless support structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for an authority utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with subsection A5,
"Requirements", of this section to the best of the applicant's knowledge;
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation; and
         h.   A line-of-sight analysis to ensure that wireless
telecommunications equipment, either pole or ground mounted, does not obscure
the safe visibility of/by motorists, bicyclists or pedestrians.
      3.   Alternate Placements: With respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the Village may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the Village it shall provide
written certification describing the property rights, technical limits or
material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the criteria in
this paragraph. It shall be the burden of the applicant, by presentation of
legally competent evidence, to establish that the Village's alternative
proposed collocation imposes technical limits or additional material costs that
render the alternative collocation unreasonable.
      4.   Height Limitations:
         a.   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support structure on
which the small wireless facility is collocated.
         b.   Unless a variation is approved in conformance with the
procedures, terms and conditions of section
10-11-3 of this Code, the height of new or replacement utility poles or
wireless support structures on which small wireless facilities are collocated
shall be limited to the higher of: 1) ten feet (10') in height above the
tallest existing utility pole, other than a utility pole supporting only
wireless facilities, that is in place on the date the application is submitted
to the Village, that is located within three hundred feet (300') of the new or
replacement utility pole or wireless support structure and that is in the same
right-of-way within the jurisdictional authority of the Village, provided that
the Village may designate which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred
feet (300') of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility, or 2) forty five feet (45')
above ground level.
      5.   Requirements:
         a.   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy to problem in a
manner consistent with the abatement and resolution procedures for interference
with public safety spectrum established by the FCC including 47 CFR 22.970
through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR 90.675.
The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not complying with the Code of Federal
Regulations cited above. The burden to establish the good faith effort shall be
on the wireless provider which shall timely deliver to the Village all
information necessary to determine its efforts to resolve the interference
consistent with the sections of the Code of Federal Regulations cited above.
Failure to remedy the problem as required herein shall constitute a public
nuisance and violation of this section subjecting the wireless provider to
injunctive relief and fines consistent with this Code.
         b.   The wireless provider shall comply with requirements that are
imposed by a contract between the Village and a private property owner that
concern design or construction standards applicable to utility poles and ground
mounted equipment located in the right- of-way.
         c.   The wireless provider shall comply with applicable spacing
requirements in applicable codes and ordinances concerning the location of
ground mounted equipment located in the right-of-way, which requirements
include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses wireless provider
requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit granting of such
exceptions or variances.
         d.   The wireless provider shall comply with local code provisions or
regulations concerning undergrounding requirements that prohibit the
installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles in a right-
of-way without prior approval, which requirements include a waiver, zoning, or
other process that addresses requests to install such new utility poles or
modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the replacement of
utility poles.
         e.   The wireless provider shall comply with generally applicable
standards that are consistent with PA 100-0585 and adopted by an authority for
construction and public safety in the rights-of- way, including, but not
limited to, reasonable and nondiscriminatory wiring and cabling requirements,
grounding requirements, utility pole extension requirements, and signage
limitations; and shall comply with reasonable and nondiscriminatory
requirements that are consistent with PA 100-0585 and adopted by an authority
regulating the location, size, surface area and height of small wireless
facilities, or the abandonment and removal of small wireless facilities.
         f.   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on Village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution
or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole
or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subsection A5f, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
The wireless provider shall be required to accept maintenance responsibility of
the Village's traffic signal or street lighting equipment for the duration or
the installation activity. The transfer of maintenance shall be to a qualified
contractor that is prequalified by IDOT in the electrical category. All traffic
signal maintenance activity must be completed by personnel certified by IMSA as
a level II traffic signal technician. Any subsequent routine maintenance and/or
modification to the wireless telecommunications facility may require a
maintenance transfer of the Village's traffic signal or lighting equipment at
the discretion of the Village Manager or his duly authorized designee.
         g.   The wireless provider shall comply with the applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
         h.   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment, and aesthetic requirements that are identified by the
Village in an ordinance, written policy adopted by the Governing Board of the
authority, a comprehensive plan, or other written design plan that applies to
other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a
historic district.
         i.   Subject to section
7-5-3 of this chapter, and except for facilities excluded from evaluation for
effects on historic properties under 47 CFR 1.1307(a)(4), the Village requires
reasonable, technically feasible and non-discriminatory design or concealment
measures in a historic district or historic landmark.
         j.   Identification signage shall be affixed onto each wireless
telecommunication facility identifying the wireless services provider, contact
phone number and unique identifier. Installation of other signs on a wireless
telecommunication facility shall be prohibited, unless they are for warning
labels or otherwise are required by law or regulations.
         k.   The base of the equipment, antenna or appurtenances of a wireless
telecommunication facility collocated on a structure shall be located no lower
than ten feet (10') above grade and at a location and height that meets the
requirements of the American Disabilities Act (ADA) and the clearances set
forth in the Public Rights-of-Way Accessibility Guidelines (PROWAG) or the
subsequent regulations on accessibility in public rights-of-way. Collocation on
Village-owned infrastructure shall also not interfere with or obscure existing
traffic control devices including signal heads and signage. For traffic signals
or street lights, no elements of a wireless telecommunication facility shall be
mounted onto the signal mast arm or lighting luminaire arm.
         l.   Wires and cables connecting the antenna to the remainder of the
facility shall be installed in accordance with the version of the National
Electric Code and National Electrical Safety Code in effect at the time of
application. In no event shall wiring and cabling be installed by a cable
television or video service operator, electric utility or telephone utility.
The applicant shall be required to provide written sign-off by each owner/
operator that a proposed collocation will not adversely impact their existing
facilities. Said sign-off must be provided at the time of application
submittal.
         m.   The wireless telecommunication facility shall be grounded in
accordance with the requirements of the most current edition of the National
Electrical Code currently in effect.
         n.   No guy or other support wires shall be used in connection with a
wireless telecommunication facility unless the facility is proposed to be
attached to an existing structure that incorporated guy wires prior to the date
that an applicant has applied for a permit.
         o.   The wireless telecommunication facility, including the antenna,
pole extension and all related equipment shall be designed to withstand wind
forces and ice loads in accordance with applicable standards established in
chapter 25 of the National Electric Safety Code for structures, rule 250-B and
250-C standards governing wind, ice, and loading forces on structures, in the
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) in TIA/EIA section 222-
G established by the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) and the
Electronics Industry Association (EIA) for steel structures and the applicable
industry standard for other existing structures. The applicant shall provide
the Village with a structural evaluation of each specific location affirming
that the proposed installation passes the standards described above. The
evaluation shall be prepared by a professional structural engineer licensed in
the State of Illinois.
         p.   The wireless telecommunication facility shall include an
electrical service disconnect switch to allow Village personnel and agents to
shut off power in the event of an incident or other abnormal conditions. The
switch shall be located a minimum of ten feet (10') from the wireless
telecommunication facility and accessible to Village and emergency response
personnel without restriction.
         q.   Other related improvements including, but not limited to, buried
electrical service, and buried fiber optic or cable connections that are needed
to service the wireless telecommunication facility and are installed within
Village rights-of-way beyond the physical pole or structure require additional
and separate permits. These types of connections shall be applied for
concurrently by the respective utility provider providing that service or
connection.
         r.   The wireless service provider shall be responsible for making
adjustments, relocations and/or removal of its facilities within the Village
rights-of-way due to highway construction, reconstruction or maintenance work
within ninety (90) calendar days of receipt of written notification as directed
by the Village Public Works Superintendent or the duly authorized designee. If
such facility is not removed or relocated as directed within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
through whatever actions are provided by law for removal and cost recovery.
         s.   If the structure or attached wireless telecommunications facility
is damaged, the wireless telecommunications facility operator shall make the
equipment safe or clear the equipment from the right-of-way within one hour of
notification to the wireless services provider designee.
         t.   The wireless services provider shall be financially responsible
for any damage to Village infrastructure or property caused by the
installation, maintenance, or operation of wireless telecommunication
facilities.
         u.   Upon completion of the work authorized by permit under this
chapter, all disturbed or damaged areas of the right-of-way shall be promptly
restored to their original condition or better. Said restoration shall include,
but is not limited to, repairs to shoulders, ditches, parkways, curbs, and
pavements and/or any special landscaping, hardscaping, or enhanced areas that
existed in the rights-of-way prior to the commencement of the permitted work.
The Village shall bear no responsibility for costs associated with such
restoration work.
         v.   The wireless provider shall install, maintain, repair and modify
its small wireless facilities in safe condition and good repair and in
compliance with the requirements and conditions of this chapter. The wireless
provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or contractors that perform
work in connection with its small wireless facilities are adequately trained
and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry and governmental
standards and regulations.
      6.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the Village must determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the Village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information, and fees specifically
enumerated in the Village's permit application form are submitted by the
applicant to the Village.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the Village sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      7.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   Multiple applications by different applicants for collocation on
the same utility or wireless support structure shall be processed based on a
first fully complete application first served basis.
         b.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Village fails to approve or
deny the application within ninety (90) days.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this section.
         c.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Village fails to approve or
deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this section.
         d.   The Village shall deny an application not meeting the
requirements of this chapter.
If the Village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations that
concern public safety, or the requirements of subsection A5 of this section
require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced before
the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the replacement of
the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of the provider.
The Village must document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial was based, and send
the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the Village denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the Village and resubmit
the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is
sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The Village
shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require a new application, new full application fee and recommencement of the
Village's review period.
The applicant must notify the Village in writing of its intention to proceed
with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted
with the resubmitted application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application cure does not apply if the
cure requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
      8.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   The express agreement in writing by both the applicant and the
Village; or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      9.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of a single authority shall be
allowed, at the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and
receive a single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small
wireless facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same
type of small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
Each consolidated application shall provide all the information required by
subsection A2 of this section for each small wireless facility at each
location.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      10.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for an authority utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
      11.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities
or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable codes or
local code provisions or regulations in subsections A5 and A7c of this section.
If PA 100-0585 is repealed or found unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, all permits granted by the Village under this chapter shall
terminate at the end of their current term.
      12.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information, and notices by personal delivery or as
otherwise required by the Village.
      13.   No Implied Warranties: As to Village-owned infrastructure onto
which wireless telecommunications facilities are to be considered for
installation upon, no implied or expressed warranty is given, granted,
inferred, etc., as to its capability to accept, support, etc., and/or provide
for the needs of the wireless telecommunications facility installation. The
complete responsibility for assuring the support element's ability will rest
and lie entirely with the permit applicant. In the event the permit applicant's
selected Village-owned infrastructure is deemed inadequate by the permit
applicant or applicant's consultant, the Village will be under no obligation to
augment or create a new element for the installation of the wireless
telecommunication facility. (Ord. 2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-5: APPLICATION FEES:
   A.   Application fees are hereby imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application
to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing utility poles or
wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The Village shall not require an application, approval, or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights- of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with the requirements of subsections 7-5-4A2a through A2g
of this chapter; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or
replacement of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables that are
strung between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety
Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a separate Village permit to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures. (Ord. 2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-6: EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed, and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter. (Ord. 2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-7: PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS:
Agreements between the Village and wireless providers that relate to the
collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of- way, including the
collocation of small wireless facilities on authority utility poles, that are
in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless facilities
collocated on the Village's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to
the Village before June 1, 2018, subject only to applicable termination
provisions contained therein.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the Village on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the Village
makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the Village
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the Village's
utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the Village before the
wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this
paragraph. (Ord. 2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-8: ANNUAL RECURRING RATE:
A wireless provider shall pay to the Village an annual recurring rate to
collocate a small wireless facility on a Village utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals: a) two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year, per pole
or b) the actual, direct, and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the Village utility pole. If the Village has not
billed the licensee actual direct and reasonable costs the fee shall be two
hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to occupy and on
each annual anniversary date thereafter. (Ord. 2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-9: ABANDONMENT:
A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety (90) days after receipt
of written notice from the Village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for authority
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the Village if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village.
Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-10: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of DuPage County has exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all
disputes arising under this chapter. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning
rates for collocation of small wireless facilities on authority utility poles
within the right- of-way, the authority shall allow the collocating person to
collocate on its poles at annual rates of no more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year per authority utility pole, with rates to be determined upon
final resolution of the dispute. (Ord. 2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-11: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
authority improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify
or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused
by the sole negligence of the Village or its employees or agents. A wireless
provider shall further waive any claims that they may have against the Village
with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused,
based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-12: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance: a) property insurance for its property's
replacement cost against all risks; b) workers' compensation insurance, as
required by law; or c) commercial general liability insurance with respect to
its activities on the authority improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of authority
improvements or rights-of way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional non-
contributory insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide
certification and documentation of inclusion of the Village in a commercial
general liability policy prior to its collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the Village. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide the Village evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self- insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the Village. (Ord. 2018-07-23, 7-19-2018)
7-5-13: SECURITY FUND:
   A.   Purpose: The wireless provider shall establish a Security Fund in a
form and in an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the wireless
provider's sole cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized
under the permit. The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the wireless provider of all the
requirements of this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the Village occasioned
by the wireless provider's failure to comply with any codes, rules,
regulations, orders, permits and other directives of the Village issued
pursuant to this chapter; and
      3.   The payment by wireless provider of all liens and all damages,
claims, costs, or expenses that the Village may pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by wireless provider in violation of this chapter
including, without limitation, any damage to public property or restoration
work the wireless provider is required by this chapter to perform that the
Village must perform itself or have completed as a consequence solely of the
wireless provider's failure to perform or complete, and all other payments due
the Village from the wireless provider pursuant to this chapter or any other
applicable law.
   B.   Form: The wireless provider shall provide the Security Fund to the
Village in the form, at the wireless provider's election, of cash, a surety
bond in a form acceptable to the Village, or an unconditional letter of credit
in a form acceptable to the Village. Any surety bond or letter of credit
provided pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
Village and the wireless provider;
      2.   Not require the consent of the wireless provider prior to the
collection by the Village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Provide a location convenient to the Village and within the State of
Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Public Works Superintendent, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the Village estimates are likely to be
incurred if the wireless provider fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the Village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Public Works
Superintendent may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the wireless
provider to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each
phase of the construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for
phased construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection C for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The Village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund if
the fund is a Cash Security Fund, provided that the wireless provider has not
reimbursed the Village for such amount within the fourteen (14) day notice
period. Withdrawals may be made if the wireless provider:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the wireless
provider hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the Village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the Village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the wireless provider; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the Village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the Village that any amount has been withdrawn from the Cash
Security Fund, the wireless provider shall restore the Cash Security Fund to
the amount specified in subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The wireless provider may request that any and all interest
accrued on the amount in the Cash Security Fund be returned to the wireless
provider by the Village, upon written request for said withdrawal to the
Village, provided that any such withdrawal does not reduce the Cash Security
Fund below the minimum balance required in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the wireless provider shall be entitled to the
return of the Cash Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on
deposit, within a reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets
necessary to compensate the Village for failure by the wireless provider to
comply with any provisions of this chapter or other applicable law. In the
event of any revocation of the permit, the Cash Security Fund, and any and all
accrued interest therein, shall become the property of the Village to the
extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs, loss or damage incurred by the
Village as a result of said revocation, provided that any amounts in excess of
said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to the wireless provider.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the Village with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the Village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the Village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 2018-07-23,
7-19-2018)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1-1: Systems Combined
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Waterworks And Sewerage Department
8-1-4: Water And Sewer Connections
8-1-5: Sewer Extensions
8-1-6: Restrictions Involving Sewer Work
8-1-7: Access To Premises
8-1-8: Tampering With System
8-1-9: Penalties
8-1-1: SYSTEMS COMBINED:
   A.   The existing waterworks system in its entirety, together with all
additions, improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made and
the sanitary sewerage system in its entirety, together with all additions,
improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made, of the Village,
are hereby declared to be a combined system, as authorized under 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-139.
   B.   All property, real, personal and mixed, comprising the now existing
waterworks system and sanitary sewerage system of the Village as in the
preamble to ordinance 237 more fully described is hereby found, determined and
declared to constitute the properties of the combined waterworks and sewerage
system of the Village.
   C.   From and after the effective date hereof, said existing waterworks
system and the sanitary sewerage system shall be owned and operated by this
Village as a combined utility, known as the combined waterworks and sewerage
system of the Village, and all improvements and extensions to said waterworks
or sewerage systems, either or both, shall be considered as improvements and
extensions to said combined utility; and all the properties, assets,
obligations and liabilities of all kinds of the waterworks system and of the
sanitary sewerage system existing, outstanding and accruing or to accrue shall
be held, used, confessed and acknowledged as the properties, assets,
obligations and liabilities of said combined utility. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-
2017)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
APPLICANT: An owner (owners) of premises who has made written application to
the Village President and Board of Trustees for permission to have a water or
sewer connection, a house connection or extension installed.
EXTENSION: A water or sanitary sewer main or lateral installed by a private
person (persons), firm, association, corporation or partnership for the purpose
of extending the original water or sanitary sewer mains or laterals of the
Village or the water or sewer mains or lateral of the Village which have been
extended from time to time.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food and
from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
HOUSE CONNECTION: The water or sewer line or pipe extending from that part of
the water or sewer connection located at approximately the property line of the
premises to be served to the house or building to be served.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
LICENSED PLUMBER: A plumber licensed and certified by the State of Illinois to
do plumbing work.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, or interceptors, mains
or laterals owned or proposed to be constructed which carry sewage and to which
storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWER CONNECTION: The sewer line or pipe extending from a sanitary sewer main
or lateral of the Village to approximately the property line of the premises to
be served.
STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
SUPERINTENDENT: That person appointed by the President and Board of Trustees to
verify compliance with the provisions of this chapter and supervise the
management of the system.
VILLAGE: That area within the corporate limits of the Village of Winfield,
DuPage County, Illinois.
VILLAGE BOARD: The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Winfield.
(Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
8-1-3: WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Department Designated: The sewerage system in the Village shall be
maintained and operated in combination with the waterworks system of the
Village and hereafter in this chapter shall be referred to as the Waterworks
and Sewerage Department.
   B.   Jurisdiction Of Department: The Waterworks and Sewerage Department,
under the direction of the President and Board of Trustees and such other
officers and employees designated by them, shall have the supervision,
management and control, subject to the Village Board, of the maintenance,
enlargement and operation of the combined system owned and controlled by the
Village, and all matters and things connected with the operation, maintenance
and extension of said system and preserving the property belonging thereto.
(Ord. 267, 8-15-1961)
8-1-4: WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Duty To Connect To Combined System:
      1.   At such time that a private potable water supply well serving any
building within the corporate limits of the Village is determined to be
inadequate as a source of potable water by the DuPage County Department of
Health and/or the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or their successor
organizations, and these regulatory agencies bar installation of a replacement
private potable water supply well in accordance with their regulations, and a
public water supply is available, the building shall be connected directly with
the public water main in accordance with the provisions of Village ordinances.
The term "available" as used herein shall mean that the water main is located
adjacent to the property in a public right-of-way or easement. Operation and
maintenance of any private well shall be discontinued upon connection of the
building to the public water main, except as provided elsewhere in this
subsection. When a private water supply well becomes unsuitable and a public
water main becomes available, the building shall be connected to said system
within one hundred eighty (180) days, and the private well shall be
disconnected from the building's plumbing in an approved manner. Prior to and
following the disconnection of the well, a representative of the Village shall
inspect the system for compliance. Failure to notify the Village for inspection
shall cause the property owner to unearth the system, at the owner's expense,
to show the inspector that the owner has complied with the provisions of this
subsection. Former private wells may be maintained for nonpotable purposes.
      2.   At such time that a private septic field serving any building within
the corporate limits of the Village is determined to be inadequate as a means
of disposing of sanitary waste by the DuPage County Department of Health and/or
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or their successor organizations,
and these regulatory agencies bar installation of a replacement private septic
field, and a public sanitary sewer collection system is available, the building
shall be connected directly to the sanitary sewer main. The term "available" as
used herein shall mean that the sanitary sewer main is located adjacent to the
property in a public right-of-way or easement and the sewer or service stub can
be reached without tunneling or boring for a distance of more than forty feet
(40') under a roadway, building, or flowing stream or combination of them. The
septic field shall be abandoned in accordance with the DuPage County Department
of Public Health or its successor organization's regulations. Prior to and
following the disconnection of the septic field, a representative of the
Village shall inspect the system for compliance. Failure to notify the Village
for inspection shall cause the property owner to unearth the system, at the
owner's expense, to show the inspector that the owner has complied with the
provisions of this subsection.
   B.   Permits Required; Fees:
      1.   No connection shall be made with the combined waterworks and
sewerage system without the signed permit of the Village Code Enforcement
Official. Any connection or opening made with the waterworks and sewerage
system without such signed permit or in any manner different from the mode
prescribed for such opening or connection shall subject the maker to a penalty
as hereinafter provided.
      2.   No person shall install or repair any sanitary building sewer or
water main without first obtaining written permit for such work from the
Waterworks and Sewerage Department.
      3.   The fees to be charged for a permit to tap or otherwise make a
connection with any water or sewer main shall be determined in such manner and
amounts as shall be prescribed by ordinance adopted by the President and Board
of Trustees from time to time.
   C.   Application To Use Or Connect: Any person or corporation desiring to
make any connection with the waterworks and sewerage system or have the use
thereof shall first make application to the Village Code Enforcement Official
upon a blank form or forms furnished by the Village. Said application shall
contain an agreement on the part of the applicant that all the rules,
regulations, conditions and provisions of any ordinance relating to the
waterworks and sewerage system will be complied with; that all rates,
assessments and rents and all fines and penalties assessed, charged or imposed
against said applicant upon the property described in the application will be
paid. When the applicant hereunder has complied with all of the provisions of
the ordinances of the Village, a permit shall then be issued by the Village
Code Enforcement Official authorizing the connection to be made and specifying
the size thereof and material used. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
   D.   Specifications And Rules: The President and Board of Trustees are
hereby authorized to make such rules and regulations consistent with this
chapter for the connections to the waterworks and sewerage system, specifying
the types and sizes of pipes and all the other appurtenances and extensions
thereto, and amend the same from time to time as may be deemed necessary. All
service pipes and connections to the combined waterworks and sewerage system
shall comply with the said specifications and rules for connection to the
waterworks and sewerage system or shall be subject to a penalty as hereinafter
provided. (Ord. 256, 4-27-1961)
   E.   Use Of Wells For Nondomestic Water Purposes: Notwithstanding the
foregoing, provided that: 1) approval has been obtained from all appropriate
regulatory authorities, whether County, State or Federal, for operation of the
well; 2) the Superintendent of the Waterworks and Sewerage Department annually
inspects the private well system and certifies that there is no cross
connection between the private well water supply and the Village water supply;
3) the owner annually certifies that there is no cross connection between the
private well water supply and the Village water supply system; and 4) the owner
pays for the cost of each annual inspection and certification by the
Superintendent, the following wells are permitted:
      1.   A private well which has been in existence on or before July 1,
1996, may be used for nondomestic water purposes, such as lawn sprinkling.
      2.   For a property of not less than twenty (20) acres being used for
nonresidential purposes, which is owned by a single legal entity, private water
wells may be constructed solely for the purpose of providing a supplementary
water supply for irrigation purposes of sports fields on the premises. (Ord.
2010-06-18, 6-3-2010)
8-1-5: SEWER EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Extension Permit Requirements:
      1.   Performance Bond: No permit for a sewer extension shall be issued by
the Village unless the person applying therefor or the contractor shall have
filed in the office of the Village a performance bond with corporate surety
thereon, acceptable to the Village, in a sum equal to the estimated cost of the
work to be done. Such performance bonds shall be approved by the Village,
conditioned upon the applicant indemnifying and saving harmless the Village for
any and all damage to underground utilities or to the water and sewer mains and
laterals of the Village and from any failure to restore any road, ditch,
pavement or portion thereof damaged during the construction of the sewer
extension to the condition at the commencement of construction.
      2.   Insurance: No permit for a sewer extension shall be issued by the
Village unless the person applying therefor or the contractor shall have first
procured public liability insurance in an amount of not less than three million
dollars ($3,000,000.00) for injuries, including accidental death, to any one
(1) person and, subject to the same limit for each person in an amount not less
than three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) on account of one (1) accident, and
property damage insurance in an amount not less than two million dollars
($2,000,000.00). The persons to be indemnified and saved harmless in said
insurance policy shall be the Village and the applicant for sewer extension. A
certificate of said insurance shall be filed with the Village.
      3.   Fee: There shall be a fee for the construction of an extension to
the Village sewer main or lateral in accordance with chapter 2 of this title.
   B.   Application For Connection: Applicants for sewer connections and/or
house connections shall pay all costs of labor and materials for installing the
sewer connections as provided herein, and shall pay all costs of labor and
materials for installing the house connection and installation may be made only
after issuance by the Village Code Enforcement Official of a permit, on a form
to be supplied by the Village, authorizing the sewer connection and house
connection and specifying the size, grade and materials thereof. Such
application for sewer connections and/or house connections shall impose
liability for periodic sewer charge to be billed the owner not later than
ninety (90) days after service is available to the owner's premises, whether or
not said owner makes physical connection to said sanitary sewerage system. The
permit and inspection fees for such sewer connection and/or house connection
shall be as provided by ordinance of the Village. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
   C.   Construction Requirements And Specifications: Construction requirements
and specifications shall conform to section
11-3-17 of this Code.
   D.   Inspections: Any person to whom a permit is issued for connection to
the sewer system shall notify the Village for inspection of connection during
regular Village business hours no less than twenty four (24) hours in advance
of the required inspection. (Ord. 267, 8-15-1961; amd. 1994 Code)
In all cases, the minimum fee for inspection of connection and sewer line
appurtenances to such connection shall be as provided in chapter 2 of this
title.
   E.   Changes In Ownership Of Premises: It is the duty of each owner of any
premises served by the Winfield water and sanitary sewerage system to notify
the Village of any change in ownership of those premises and such owner remains
liable for payment of all charges for said service until such notification is
provided and a final meter reading obtained. (1994 Code)
8-1-6: RESTRICTIONS INVOLVING SEWER WORK:
   A.   Existing Septic Systems: No repairs or extensions will be allowed to
present septic systems where the sanitary sewer is available.
   B.   Use Of Plumber's Name: No plumber shall allow his name to be used by
any other person or party directly or indirectly for the purpose of obtaining
permits or doing any work under his license. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
8-1-7: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
   A.   The initiation or continuation of water or sewer service to any
premises is subject to the conditions that the consumer shall permit any
authorized representative of the Village to enter upon the premises at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of reading meters or testing, examining,
repairing or replacing any pipes, fixtures or equipment or examining the
purity, use or flow of water.
   B.   Any person violating the provisions of this section will be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
and, if the offense is of a continuing nature, each day that such violation
shall continue or each occasion during a single day when the violation occurs
after a person has been notified of the violation, shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 88-10-4, 10-13-1988)
8-1-8: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the Village to tamper
with, alter or damage any part of the combined waterworks and sewerage system
of the Village or any water meter. Every person who in any way disturbs or
damages any part of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the Village
or any water meter shall be liable for all expenses incurred by the Village as
a consequence of such disturbance or damage. He shall also be responsible for
any and all damage to surrounding properties resulting from such disturbance of
or damage to any part of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the
Village or any water meter. (Ord. 2009-10-34, 10-15-2009)
8-1-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this
chapter, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine as
provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. In addition thereto, the Village shall not issue permits
of any kind within its jurisdiction to the offending party until the said party
has complied with the provisions of this chapter. In addition to any ordinance
violation prosecution authorized by law, the Village Manager is hereby
authorized to direct the Village Attorney to file suit to recover any and all
costs incurred by the Village for any damage to any part of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system of the Village or any water meter as determined
by the Public Works Director, including, but not limited to: estimated water
usage and overhead costs, any Village staff time and equipment including
overhead used to repair any damage and any Village payments to contractors for
the same. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 2
COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-2-1: General Provisions
8-2-2: Service Charges
8-2-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2-2: Waterworks Service Charges
8-2-2-3: Sanitary Sewer Service Charges
8-2-2-4: Increased Demand
8-2-2-5: Private Sewage Disposal
8-2-2-6: Use Of Funds
8-2-2-7: Interpretation
8-2-3: User Rates And Charges
8-2-3-1: Rates And Charges Established
8-2-3-2: Liability For Payment
8-2-3-3: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
8-2-3-4: Disposition Of Funds (Rep. by Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
8-2-3-5: Records Kept
8-2-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   A charge shall be made to the residents of the Village which shall be
reasonable for the use and service of such waterworks and sewerage system, and
such charges or rates for that purpose shall be established and such rates
shall be sufficient to pay the cost of the operation and maintenance of the
entire waterworks and sewerage system of the Village including an adequate
depreciation fund therefor.
   B.   All consumers, users or properties in the Village shall pay such rates
for the use and service of the waterworks and sewerage system in such manner
and amounts as shall be prescribed by ordinance by the President and Board of
Trustees from time to time. All users of the waterworks and sewerage system of
the Village occupying premises not within the limits of the Village shall be
charged rates to be determined by the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord.
2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
8-2-2: SERVICE CHARGES:
8-2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this section
8-2-2, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
as follows:
DWELLING UNIT: A group of rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling which
are arranged, designed, used or intended for use exclusively as living quarters
for one (1) family (complete single kitchen facilities, permanently installed,
shall always be included for each "dwelling unit").
FIXTURE UNIT: A design factor for demand or drainage piping so chosen that the
load producing values of the plumbing fixtures can be expressed approximately
as multiples of that factor. For the purpose of this chapter, this value is
seven and five- tenths (7.5) gallons per minute or one (1) cubic foot per
minute.
PER CAPITA DESIGN: A design factor for the average daily water consumption or
average daily waste discharge per person. For the purposes of this chapter, the
average per capita design shall not be less than one hundred twenty five (125)
gallons per day per person for water consumption and one hundred (100) gallons
per day per person for waste discharge to the sanitary sewerage system.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term to evaluate the impact of industrial or other
waste on wastewater facilities. One population equivalent is one hundred (100)
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD5 (5 day biochemical
oxygen demand) and 0.20 pounds of suspended solids. The impact on wastewater
facilities is evaluated as the equivalent of the highest of the three (3)
parameters.
SANITARY SEWER SERVICE LATERAL: The main sanitary sewer service line that
extends from the sanitary sewer to the building being served.
SERVICE CHARGE: The charge for making the waterworks and/or the sanitary
sewerage system of the Village ready for service.
STANDBY WATERWORKS OR FIRE DEMAND: The required fire flow and the duration for
which it is required that must be maintained at all times to provide this
service upon demand.
USAGE CHARGE: The charge for the use of the waterworks and/or sanitary sewerage
system of the Village.
WATER SERVICE PIPE: The building service line that extends from the main to the
building being served.
WATERWORKS BUILDING OR SANITARY SEWER BUILDING CONNECTION: The connection to an
existing water main and/or sanitary sewer for the purpose of providing service
to the individual lot, building, tract or parcel.
WATERWORKS BUILDING OR SANITARY SEWER BUILDING CONNECTION CHARGE: The charge
for making the waterworks and sanitary sewerage system ready for service and
for recapturing the capital improvement costs expended by previous extensions
of the water mains and sanitary sewers.
WATERWORKS OR SANITARY SEWER EXTENSION: The extension of the water distribution
system and/or the sanitary sewer system to make said systems ready to service
lots, tracts or parcels of land.
WATERWORKS OR SANITARY SEWER EXTENSION CHARGE: The charge for providing the
capacity in the water distribution system or the sanitary sewer system to
adequately serve the proposed extension. (Ord. 88-10-4, 10-13-1988; amd. Ord.
89-3-2, 3-23-1989)
8-2-2-2: WATERWORKS SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Connection Charges; Installation By A Private Party: Anyone desiring
the privilege of a connection to the waterworks system for the purpose of
extending said system to serve lots, tracts or parcels of land, or extending
service to additional buildings or uses shall pay the following charges at the
time the final subdivision plat is approved or when a building permit is
issued, whichever first occurs:
 
Type Of Service                            Charge
Residential, single- or multi-family        
developments:
 Dwellings with less than or equal to 50  $2,660.00 per attached or detached
  water supply fixture units               dwelling unit
 Dwellings with over 50 water supply      $53.00 per water supply fixture unit
  fixture units
Business, commercial (including offices)
and publicly operated facilities such as
fire district, library and other
government offices and buildings; uses     $760.00 per population equivalent
that combine living accommodations with
nonresidential uses, such as a hospital or
detention facility
Industrial                                 $760.00 per population equivalent
School - elementary and/or high school     $324.00 per population equivalent
 
The above charges include providing a point or points on the existing water
distribution system (even if that point(s) is on applicant's own property and
the extension is merely for the purpose of extending service to other buildings
or uses on applicant's property) where a water main extension can be made at
the applicant's cost, provided a permit has been granted by the State of
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   B.   Existing Main Connection Charge: Anyone desiring the privilege of
connection to an existing water main for domestic, process or fire demand,
which main has been installed by or at the expense of the Village, shall pay
the following charges to the Village at the time the building permit is issued:
 
Type Of Service                            Charge
Residential, single- or multi-family        
developments:
 Dwellings with less than or equal to 50  $3,413.00 per attached or detached
  water supply fixture units               dwelling unit
 Dwellings with over 50 water supply      $68.00 per water supply fixture unit
  fixture units
Business, commercial (including offices)
and publicly operated facilities such as
fire district, library and other
government offices and buildings; uses     $976.00 per population equivalent
that combine living accommodations with
nonresidential uses, such as a hospital or
detention facility
Industrial equivalent                      $976.00 per population equivalent
 
The above charges include the water system connection charge and the capital
improvement cost of the water main. Said charges do not include water meter
charges or inspection charges. If the main referred to above has not been
installed by or at the expense of the Village, then the above charges apply
only if the lot for which a connection is sought has not contributed
proportionately to the cost of the existing main.
   C.   Standby Waterworks Charges Or Fire Demand Charges:
      1.   For all properties which have an interior fire protection system
connected to the waterworks system, and all properties which have their own
water supply from private wells, but also have a standby service from the
waterworks system, there is hereby established an annual charge for such
standby service as follows:
 
2 inch  $ 200.00 per year
3 inch  330.00 per year
4 inch  390.00 per year
6 inch  580.00 per year
8 inch  1,320.00 per year
10 inch 3,360.00 per year
12 inch 6,680.00 per year
 
      2.   Failure to pay the charges on or before the due date and through the
fifty ninth day of delinquency shall result in the imposition and expectation
of the payment of a ten percent (10%) penalty on the outstanding balance and
the original charge. Failure to pay the charge on or after the sixtieth day of
delinquency shall result in the imposition and expectation of the payment of a
twenty percent (20%) outstanding balance and the original charges. Any balances
remaining after the sixtieth day will be added to the next monthly utility
bill.
      3.   The imposition of the penalty does not preclude the Village from
taking other measures to enforce the regulations of this chapter.
   D.   Meter Charges: Water meters with remote reading heads shall be
installed on all new water services as required for the particular services and
the applicable charge shall be the total cost plus fifteen percent (15%) and
shall be paid before a building permit is issued or at the time the meter is
installed, whichever first occurs.
   E.   Water Service Pipe Connection Charge: Water service pipe and
connections shall be installed by the building permit applicant at his own
expense and unless the Village has at its own expense installed a portion of
that service pipe under a street, road or highway adjoining applicant's
property, there is no charge for the water service pipe connections. If,
however, a portion of the water service pipe has been installed at Village
expense under an adjoining street, road or highway, then applicant shall pay
one hundred four dollars ($104.00) per linear foot at the time the building
(water connection) permit is issued.
   F.   Inspection Charge: An inspection charge of one hundred dollars
($100.00) shall be paid at the time the building permit is issued.
   G.   Fire Hydrant Meter Usage Charge: Fire hydrant meters may be rented for
water usage on projects to contractors/customers for uses approved by the
Waterworks Superintendent. The contractor/customer must complete an application
for rental and pay a one thousand seven hundred dollar ($1,700.00) deposit
which is refunded upon the return of the hydrant meter. The contractor/customer
is subject to a fifty dollar ($50.00) administrative fee and the actual cost of
metered water usage based on the current water usage rate, both to be paid per
rental, minimum of once per year. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
8-2-2-3: SANITARY SEWER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Connection Charges; Installation By A Private Party: Anyone desiring
the privilege of a connection to the sanitary sewerage system for the purpose
of extending said system to serve lots, tracts or parcels of land, shall pay
the following charges at the time the final subdivision plat is approved or a
building permit issued, whichever first occurs:
 
Type Of Service                            Charge
Residential, single- or multi-family        
developments:
 Dwellings with less than or equal to 50  $492.00 per attached or detached
  drainage fixture units                   dwelling unit
 Dwellings with over 50 drainage fixture  $17.00 per drainage fixture unit
  units
Business, commercial (including offices)
and publicly operated facilities such as
fire district, library and other
government offices and buildings; uses     $140.00 per population equivalent
that combine living accommodations with
nonresidential uses, such as a hospital or
detention facility
Industrial equivalent                      $140.00 per population equivalent
 
The above charges include a charge for the cost of existing interceptors,
pumping stations and wastewater treatment facilities which allow a sanitary
sewer extension to be made at the applicant's cost, provided a permit has been
granted by the State of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   B.   Existing System Connection Charge: Anyone desiring the privilege of
sewage treatment capacity and connecting to an existing sanitary sewer
installed by or at the expense of the Village, shall pay the following charges
at the time the building permit is issued:
 
Type Of Service                              Charge
Residential, single- or multi-family          
developments:
 Dwellings with less than or equal to 50    $1,239.00 per attached or detached
  drainage fixture units                     dwelling unit
 Dwellings with over 50 drainage fixture    $42.00 per drainage fixture unit
  units
Business, commercial (including offices) and
publicly operated facilities such as fire
district, library and other government
offices and buildings; uses that combine     $354.00 per population equivalent
living accommodations with nonresidential
uses, such as a hospital or detention
facility
Industrial equivalent                        $354.00 per population equivalent
 
The above charges include the sanitary sewerage connection charge, and the
capital improvement cost of the existing sanitary sewer collection system. Said
charge does not include inspection charges. If the sewer referred to above has
not been installed by or at the expense of the Village, then the above charges
apply only if the lot for which a connection is sought has not contributed
proportionately to the cost of the existing sewer.
   C.   Sanitary Building Sewer Inspection Charge: One hundred dollars
($100.00).
   D.   Lateral Connections: Sanitary sewer service laterals and connections
shall be installed by the building permit applicant at his own expense, and
unless the Village has at its own expense installed a portion of that sanitary
sewer service lateral under a street, road or highway adjoining the applicant's
property, there is no charge for the sanitary sewer service lateral connection.
If, however, a portion of the sanitary sewer service lateral has been installed
at Village expense under an adjoining street, road or highway, then applicant
shall pay a sanitary sewer service lateral connection charge of one hundred
fifteen dollars ($115.00) per linear foot at the time the building (sanitary
sewer service connection) permit is issued. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
   E.   West Chicago Wastewater Treatment Plant Capacity Charge: There shall be
a capacity charge assessed by the Village per connection per population
equivalent (PE) to all new users connecting to the Village's sanitary sewer
system that conveys waste to the West Chicago wastewater treatment plant. The
fee shall be paid at the time a building permit is sought from the Village. The
capacity charge shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per PE.
The PE for each development is based on the following chart:
Residence Type Population Equivalent
Residence Type                         Population Equivalent
Apartment or condominium with:          
 Efficiency or studio configuration   1
 1 bedroom                            1.5
 2 bedroom                            3
 3 bedroom                            3.5
Single family dwelling                 3.5
Mobile home                            2.25
                                       PE determined in accordance with the
                                       State of Illinois Administrative Code,
Commercial, industrial, and other non- title 35 - Environmental Protection,
residential uses                       subtitle C: Water Pollution, chapter
                                       III, Environmental Protection Agency,
                                       part 370.310 Basis of Design, appendix
                                       B, table 2
 
(Ord. 2019-02-02, 2-7-2019)
8-2-2-4: INCREASED DEMAND:
If, after any of the foregoing waterworks and sanitary sewerage charges have
been paid, there is a change in the use of the building or facility for which
those charges were paid, and that change results in an increase in water use
or, in the case of sanitary sewerage, an increase in water use and an increase
in organic and suspended solids loading, the difference between the service
charge appropriate for the new demand and the charge actually paid shall be due
and payable on demand. In no case shall a building permit be issued until this
difference has been paid. (Ord. 88-10-4, 10-13-1988)
8-2-2-5: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
There is hereby established a permit and inspection fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) for the filing of an application for the construction of a private
sewage disposal system. (Ord. 684, 3-4-1984)
8-2-2-6: USE OF FUNDS:
The funds collected under the provisions of this section
8-2-2 shall be used by the Village for its general utility purposes with
primary application thereof being made by the necessary expansion of the
combined waterworks and sewerage system to meet the requirements of the new
users thereof. (Ord. 88-10-4, 10-13-1988; amd. 1994 Code)
8-2-2-7: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   No Impairment Of Contracts: Nothing contained in this section
8-2-2 shall affect or impair, or be construed to affect or impair, any
contractual obligation existing between the Village and a person which is in
existence at the time of the effective date of this section.
   B.   Charges In Addition To Normal Taxes: The connection charges imposed by
this section
8-2-2 shall be in addition to those charges covered by normal taxes or usage
charges for the construction, expansion and extension of the works of the
system. (Ord. 88-10-4, 10-13-1988)
8-2-3: USER RATES AND CHARGES:
8-2-3-1: RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Metered Rates: There shall be and there hereby are established rates or
charges for the use of and for the service supplied by the combined waterworks
and sewage system of the Village, Du Page County, Illinois, based upon the
amount of water consumed, as shown by the water meters, as follows:
      1.   Water Service Only: For each user of the water service only of the
combined waterworks and sewage system within the corporate limits, the charge
shall be as follows:
 
                                     Effective Billing Date September 2022
For the first 2,350 gallons of water  $28.79
usage (minimum charge)
For all usage over 2,350 gallons, per $12.25
1,000 gallons
 
   The minimum charge shall be based upon usage for a monthly billing cycle.
   2.   Sewer Service Only: For each user of sewer service only of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system within the corporate limits, the charge shall be
as follows:
 
                                     Effective Billing Date September 2022
For the first 2,350 gallons of water  $22.67
usage (minimum charge)
For all usage over 2,350 gallons, per $9.66
1,000 gallons
 
   The minimum charge shall be based upon usage for a monthly billing cycle. In
the event that the sewer service system only user has an unmetered private
water supply only and does not use water supplied by the Village, then there
shall be a payment of the following flat rates per monthly period for each
bedroom unit in a living unit:
 
Effective Billing Date: # of Bedrooms Amount
   May 2011          1             $ 23.40
                       2             $ 46.80
                       3             $ 70.20
                       4             $ 93.60
                       5             $ 117.00
 
   The flat rate does not apply to commercial usage or any other usage. The
president and board of trustees shall determine a reasonable rate to be charged
to commercial and other nonresidential unmetered users.
   3.   Combined Water and Sewer Service: For each user of the combined
waterworks and sewage system within the corporate limits, the charge shall be
as follows:
 
                                                    Effective Billing Date
                                                     September 2022
For the first 2,350 gallons of water usage (minimum  $51.46
charge)
For all usage over 2, 350 gallons, per 1,000 gallons $21.91
 
   The minimum charge shall be based upon usage for a monthly billing cycle.
      4.   Pool Meters: A once per year credit will be allowed against metered
water usage for those residential users who require annually during a
concentrated period of time an unusually heavy water use that will not be
discharged into the sanitary sewer system. To be eligible for such a credit,
the residential user must apply for a portable water meter from the Village
which the Village will supply for a five dollar ($5.00) fee to defray the cost
of providing the meter and the billing credit to be allowed plus a sixty dollar
($60.00) deposit to ensure the return of the meter in an undamaged condition.
Only one (1) application for such credit and meter will be allowed per calendar
year per residence, and the meter will be available for a period of use not to
exceed three (3) consecutive calendar days. Based upon the volume of water use
measured by this portable meter, and upon applicant's certification that the
water so used will not be discharged at any time into the sanitary sewerage
system of the Village, credit in the amount of the then applicable rate for
sewer service only for the volume of water use measured by this portable meter,
as charged by the Village, will be allowed. Not more than one (1) application
for this portable meter will be approved per calendar year per residential
dwelling unit. If it is subsequently determined by the Village that despite the
certification of the applicant the water use so credited was discharged into
the sanitary sewerage system of the Village, the credit will be disallowed and
the applicant will be charged for the water use previously credited, and no
further credits will be allowed. Pool meters not returned within the three (3)
day period will be subject to an additional fee equal to the original rental
amount.
      5.   Defective Meters: Water will be furnished to consumers at meter
rates only, as established by ordinance. If a meter at any time fails to
register the quantity of water consumed, the amount shall be determined and the
charges based on the average quantity registered during the preceding periods
of time prior to date of such failure to register. No deduction will be made
from water bills on account of leakage.
      6.   Construction Use: Where water is to be used for construction, repair
or remodeling, or for any other purpose where a permanent meter is not
appropriate, it will only be provided in one (1) of the following manners:
         a.   Through a temporary water meter installed for the purpose,
subject to all the rules and regulations governing service and meters.
         b.   Through an existing water meter on the premises or, with the
permission of the owner, from an adjacent property.
         c.   Where water for construction purposes cannot be obtained from any
other source, a ball/gate valve, one-way flow or check valve, and a meter will
be attached to a fire hydrant by the Public Works Department of the Village,
with the understanding that the same shall be immediately removed when required
by the Village or Fire Protection District. In no case shall anyone but an
authorized agent of the Village or of the Fire Protection District operate the
hydrant main valve. In addition to consumption charges, there shall be an
administrative fee and deposit for the hydrant meter.
         d.   The charge for making water connections for water to be furnished
to buildings under construction without metering shall be the minimum charge
for combined waterworks and sewerage system service charge.
   B.   Multiple Use Accounts Within The Corporate Limits: A "multiple use
account" is defined as any additional number of residential or commercial units
located on the same premises, or being served through a single water meter such
as apartment buildings, trailer courts or commercial and residential units
located within the same building. Each multiple use account shall pay a minimum
charge for each residential or commercial unit connected through the single
water meter for the type of service set out above. This minimum charge shall be
calculated according to the following formula:
(N-1) x (the applicable minimum charge for that billing cycle)
In this formula, N represents the number of living or commercial units served.
In addition to this minimum charge, said multiple use accounts shall pay the
applicable usage charges set forth in this section for users of the water and
sewer system.
   C.   Accounts Outside The Corporate Limits: Each user of the combined system
of the Village located outside the corporate limits shall pay a surcharge in an
amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the total charges for the type of
service as set out above.
   D.   Deposit Required: A deposit in the following amount shall be paid with
each application for water and/or sewer service, this sum to be retained by the
Village to ensure prompt payment of all bills. When service to the applicant is
discontinued permanently, the deposit, less any amount due the Village for
water and/or sewer service, shall be refunded without interest. The deposit
shall be computed as follows:
Owner occupied: Sixty five dollar ($65.00) deposit with application. This
deposit will be waived if the account holder registers for direct debit payment
and the account remains in good standing. If, at any time, the direct debit
option is discontinued by the account holder, the account holder will be
required to pay the sixty five dollar ($65.00) deposit.
Residential tenant occupied: Two hundred dollar ($200.00) deposit with
application. No waiver of deposit permitted.
Business: An amount equal to three (3) months of estimated charges based upon
historical usage at that location or an estimate based on comparable properties
and/or water meter size.
   E.   Service Interruption Charge: To restore water service that has been
terminated for any reason, a service interruption charge of fifty dollars
($50.00) must be paid prior to the restoration of service if restoration will
be done during normal Village working hours. If restoration of water service is
requested to be done at any other time, a service interruption charge of one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) must be paid prior to the restoration of
service. If the Village delivered a red tag to the property pursuant to
subsection 8-2-3-3B1b of this chapter, a red tag administrative fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) will be assessed and becomes due and payable immediately.
(Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-04-06, 4-21-2022)
8-2-3-2: LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT:
   A.   The services of the system are furnished to the respective premises by
the Village only upon the condition that the owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof and the user of the service are jointly and severally liable
therefor to the Village.
   B.   No person owing waterworks or sewerage charges and removing to other
premises where there are such connections or where connections shall afterwards
be made shall be served until such charges in arrears are paid in full. (Ord.
267, 8-15-1961)
8-2-3-3: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Rendition Of Bills:
      1.   Duties Of Village: The Village shall prepare bills for use and
service of the combined system, distribute such bills, collect the rates, issue
permits, and perform such other duties as now are or may hereafter be imposed
by law or ordinance.
      2.   Billing Date; Payment Due Date: Bills for water and/or sanitary
sewer services shall be dated and sent out on or after the fourteenth day of
the month for the prior period for which service was rendered, and payment
shall be due not later than fifteen (15) days after the date the bill was
rendered.
      3.   Payment Plans: The Village Manager or designee are authorized to
enter into payment plans with customers of the Village's combined water and
sanitary sewer accounts to ensure complete payments of outstanding obligations
over an extended time period, not to exceed twelve (12) months.
   B.   Delinquent Bills:
      1.   Time For Delinquency; Service Turnoff:
         a.   Whenever the gross amount of a combined bill for water and
sewerage or a separate bill for water or sewerage is not paid on or before a
date fifteen (15) days subsequent to the due date stated on the bill, it shall
be deemed delinquent as to that portion of the gross amount unpaid. If payment
of the entire amount of said bill for such service is not received by the
Village on or before the fifteenth day after the billing date, then a late
payment penalty of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid balance of the current and
any prior unpaid amount if applicable shall be added thereto and become due and
payable.
         b.   Where water and/or sanitary sewer service billings in excess of
fifty dollars ($50.00) remain delinquent and unpaid for a period of thirty (30)
days subsequent to the due date stated on the bill, the Village Manager or his
designee shall deliver a notice of termination to the customer prior to the
termination of service. Said notice of termination may be included on the
subsequent water bill, and shall advise that the account is past due and
subject to termination of service, and shall notify the customer that he has
seven (7) days within which to challenge termination of service as being
unjustified by written notice to the Village Manager. The notice shall also be
posted on the property receiving the water and/or sanitary sewer service, to be
known as a red tag and a red tag administrative fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) will be assessed and becomes due and payable immediately. Landlords
identified on tenant applications will be notified in the event their tenant
occupied property receives a red tag notice.
         c.   If any occupant or owner of the premises receiving water or
sewerage service disputes the amount due or challenges the termination of
service, that person may obtain a hearing with respect to that dispute or
challenge by causing a written request for such a hearing to be delivered to
the Winfield Village Hall. A request for a hearing regarding a dispute of the
amount due must be delivered to the Village no later than the close of the
business day on the due date stated on the bill. The written request shall
suggest two (2) alternative hearing dates when the person making the request
will be able to appear at the Village Hall. The dates and times selected must
be during times the Village Hall is open for business and must be no later than
seven (7) days subsequent to the due date stated on the bill or the proposed
date of termination of service. The Village Manager shall select one (1) of
those alternative hearing dates and times, and notify the person submitting the
request of the date and time selected, at which time the occupant or owner will
be given an opportunity to be heard and present evidence regarding that dispute
or challenge. The Village Manager, if he is available, shall conduct that
hearing, and if he is unavailable, he shall designate another Village employee
or officer to act in his place. In the case of a dispute of the bill amount,
the Village Manager or his designated replacement shall then adjudicate the
dispute and either adjust the amount owed in accordance with the evidence
presented or determine that the entire amount remains due and owing. If the
amount so determined is not paid on or before a date fifteen (15) days
subsequent to the due date stated on the bill, then the Village Manager or his
designee is authorized to turn off the water and/or sewer service as set forth
in subsection B1d of this section. In the case of a challenge to termination of
service, the Village Manager or his designated replacement shall then
adjudicate the challenge and determine whether the termination is in compliance
with this Code. If the termination is determined to be in compliance and the
amount owed is not paid on within three (3) days subsequent to the
determination, then the Village Manager or his designee is authorized to turn
off the water and/or sewer service as set forth in subsection B1d of this
section.
         d.   The Village Manager or his designee is authorized to shut off the
water and/or sewer supply in whole or in part to the premises after compliance
with subsections B1b and B1c of this section. When shut off, full water and/or
sewer service shall not be restored except upon the payment of the gross amount
of the delinquent bill or in the case of demonstrable hardship any lesser
balance due thereon as determined by the Village Manager, plus all applicable
charges as set forth in subsection 8-2-3-1E of this chapter.
      2.   Notice Of Lien:
         a.   Whenever a combined bill for water and sewerage or a separate
bill for water and a separate bill for sewerage remains unpaid in whole or in
part for sixty (60) days after it has been rendered, the Clerk is authorized to
cause to be filed with the Recorder of Deeds of DuPage County, Illinois, a
notice of lien in the manner provided by statute. A copy of said notice of lien
shall be mailed to the user and to the owner of the premises, if the user is
not the owner and the name and the address of the owner is known to the Clerk.
         b.   The failure of the Clerk to record such notice of lien or to mail
such notice or the failure of the user or owner to receive such notice shall
not affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid combined water and
sewerage bills or separate bills for water and separate bills for sewerage, as
mentioned in the foregoing sections.
      3.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid combined
water and sewerage charges or separate charges for water and separate charges
for sewerage may be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such
sale shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case
in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be as provided by
the statutes of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
8-2-3-4: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
8-2-3-5: RECORDS KEPT:
The Village Treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept full and complete books of
accounts separate and apart from any other records of the Village showing in
detail all monies received by him with dates and sources and all matters
pertaining to his office in a clear and methodical manner. He shall also keep
such other books as the President and Board of Trustees may from time to time
direct. All such books, accounts and papers pertaining to said office shall at
all reasonable times be open to the inspection of the President and Board of
Trustees, or any member thereof. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
CHAPTER 3
EXTENSION OF SERVICES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Required Service Extensions
8-3-2: Procedures
8-3-3: Service Extension Connections
8-3-1: REQUIRED SERVICE EXTENSIONS:
The owner of one or more building sites within a lot, block, tract or parcel of
land within the corporate limits of the village which is not served by the
municipal water or sanitary sewerage system, but is within four hundred feet
(400') of existing water and/or sewer mains shall be required to extend the
water and/or sewer mains to serve the property so owned by him before obtaining
a building permit. (Ord. 88-10-4, 10-13-1988)
8-3-2: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Preliminary Survey: The engineer for the village shall make a
preliminary survey of the premises and submit a report to the president and
board of trustees as to the feasibility of such construction and connection to
the waterworks and sewerage system of the village. Property owners requiring
such extensions shall pay the cost of such preliminary engineering service.
   B.   Construction Plans And Specifications; Costs: If it appears from the
report of the engineer for the village that the waterworks and sewerage system
as it then exists is of ample size and design to accommodate the property that
will be serviced by such extension, the property owner requiring such
extension, if he desires to proceed with construction, will request the
president and board of trustees to direct the engineer for the village to
prepare plans and specifications for the construction of the water and/or sewer
extension and to estimate the cost of the same. Said property owner shall
deposit with the village treasurer the amount of the engineer's estimated fee
before the president and board of trustees direct the engineer to proceed with
the work.
The village board at its discretion may direct the property owner to have the
plans and specifications for the extension drawn by a professional registered
engineer in Illinois under the employ of the property owner. Said plans and
specifications shall be reviewed and approved by the engineer for the village.
The cost of the plan review will be borne in full by the property owner. Said
property owner shall deposit with the village treasurer the amount of the
engineer's estimated fee before the president and board of trustees direct the
engineer to proceed with the plan review.
When the engineer for the village has completed the plans and specifications
for the construction of the extension of the waterworks and sewerage system,
and estimated the cost thereof, the property owner requiring such extension
shall be advised of the estimated cost of such work and, if he decides not to
proceed further, the money he has deposited will be used to pay the engineer's
charges for preparing the plans, specifications and estimate of the cost of
said work.
   C.   Construction And Inspection; Costs:
      1.   If the estimate of the engineer for the village is acceptable to the
property owner requiring the water or sewer extension, then the president and
board of trustees shall authorize bids to be taken for the construction of the
work specified in the plans and specifications prepared by the engineer for the
village and will exhibit such bids, when received, to the property owner. If
one of the bids is acceptable, the property owner will deposit with the village
treasurer an amount of money sufficient to pay the entire cost of constructing
said extension, including engineering inspection and legal fees, if any, and
the village treasurer shall hold the money so deposited with him in a separate
bank account to be used for no purpose other than to pay for the cost of
constructing said water or sewer extension.
      2.   The village board at its discretion may direct the property owner to
have the extension constructed by a licensed contractor in Illinois under the
employ of the property owner. The engineering inspection of the construction of
the extension shall be performed by the engineer for the village. The cost of
the engineering inspection will be borne in full by the property owner. Said
property owner shall deposit with the village treasurer the amount of the
engineer's estimated fee before the president and board of trustees direct the
property owner to begin construction and the engineer to proceed with the
inspections.
   D.   Construction By The Village: Upon the deposit of the money provided for
in subsection C of this section, the president and board of trustees shall
enter into a contract with the successful bidder for the construction of the
requested water or sewer extension and the work shall be done under the
supervision of the engineer for the village. Payments for the work shall be
made by the village treasurer from the funds deposited with him upon payment
estimates from time to time received from the engineer for the village and
which have been approved by the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 88-10-4,
10-13-1988)
8-3-3: SERVICE EXTENSION CONNECTIONS:
There shall not be any permit charges required for the construction of water
and/or sewer main extensions to the system, but the regular and usual charges
as may be effective at the time of making application for connection of
individual properties to the water and sewer mains shall be applicable.
Applications for connection to the waterworks and sewerage system of the
village, including mains constructed by property owners, shall be made in the
office of the village clerk on application forms supplied by the village. No
connection to the water and/or sewer mains shall be made without such permit.
(Ord. 88-10-4, 10-13-1988)
CHAPTER 4
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Water Service Connections
8-4-2: Water Meters
8-4-3: Maintenance And Repair
8-4-4: Rules And Regulations
8-4-5: Deposit For Water Service
8-4-6: Water Conservation Measures
8-4-7: Unlawful Use Of Water
8-4-8: Penalties
8-4-1: WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
All connections to the water mains shall be made upon the following conditions,
and subject to the charges contained in chapter 2 of this title:
   A.   Contractors' Responsibilities: All preparation necessary to accomplish
water connections shall be performed by a contractor.
   B.   Excavations 1 : No street opening will be permitted for the
installation of water lines, except in those instances where, in the opinion of
the Superintendent of Water, it is impossible or infeasible to bore or push
pipe under the surface of a paved street. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 2 of this Code.
8-4-2: WATER METERS:
The meter so installed in the premises shall remain with said premises in case
of sale. (Ord. 176, 5-8-1952)
8-4-3: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
The stopcocks and other appurtenances shall be sufficiently strong to bear the
pressure and ram of the water in the mains and all persons taking the water
shall keep their own service pipes, stopcocks, meter and apparatus in good
repair and protected from frost at their own risk and expense, and shall
prevent all unnecessary waste of water, and it is expressly stipulated by the
consumer on the one hand and the Village that no claim shall be made against
them or the Village by reason of the breaking of any service cock or if from
any cause the supply of water should fail or from damage arising from shutting
off water to repair mains, making connections or extensions, or for any other
purpose that may be deemed necessary; and the right is hereby reserved to cut
off the supply of water at any time, any permit granted to the contrary
notwithstanding. (Ord. 74, 12-3-1928)
8-4-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations for the government of water consumers,
plumbers and for the performance of all work referred to in this chapter are
hereby adopted and established:
   A.   Construction Requirements And Specifications: Construction requirements
and specifications shall conform to sections
11-3-16 and
11-3-17 of this Code.
   B.   Supervision: All work done in the streets of the Village and
contemplated under this chapter must be under the supervision of the Water
Superintendent and subject to his direction and approval.
   C.   Permits Required:
      1.   Water Taps And Connections: No tap shall be inserted in and no
service pipe shall be connected with any distributing pipe or water main
without a proper permit from the Village as in this chapter provided.
      2.   Extensions Or Alterations 1 : Before any extensions or alterations
of the plumbing, beyond that for which permission may have been granted is
made, it shall be necessary to obtain a special permit from the Village.
   D.   Water Turn On And Shutoff:
      1.   No person other than a representative of the Village shall turn off
or on any water supply.
      2.   The Village shall shut off the water supply from any consumer when
such consumer shall have become delinquent in the payment of water rates or
assessments due from him, or shall have violated any of the rules and
provisions of this chapter or such others as may hereafter be adopted by the
Board of Trustees relating to the water system.
   E.   Shutoff Box: The location of the shutoff box shall be as specified by
the Village.
   F.   Inspections:
      1.   The Village shall, between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. daily, have free access through any premises into
which water is introduced for the purpose of examining the fixtures and pipes
and to ascertain whether there is any unnecessary waste of water. If any
conditions in the plumbing are found which might contaminate the water supply
in the mains, the water shall be shut off until such condition is corrected.
      2.   All the work referred to in this chapter and the materials used
(meaning and intending all work and materials from the tapping of the main to
and including the setting of the meter) must be inspected and approved by the
Village before the water supply is turned on for use.
   G.   Lawn Sprinkler Systems And Fountains: No lawn sprinkler systems or
fountains except public drinking or display fountains shall be located within
the limits of any street, nor shall such lawn sprinkler systems or fountains be
permitted to be located therein unless accepted and approved by the Village
Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title.
8-4-5: DEPOSIT FOR WATER SERVICE:
If the applicant does not own the property to be supplied with water, a cash
deposit as provided in subsection 8-2-3-1D of this title shall be made by the
applicant before water is supplied, which deposit will be refunded upon payment
in full of all charges up to and including the shutting off of the water
supply. (Ord. 176, 5-8-1952; amd. Ord. 256, 4-27-1961; Ord. 561, 1-10-1980;
Ord. 572, 7-10-1980)
8-4-6: WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES:
   A.   Statement Of Intent: The Village of Winfield receives a fixed allotment
of City of Chicago supplied Lake Michigan water from the DuPage County Water
Commission. An expanding population in the Village and very high demand during
the summer months has resulted in demand exceeding supply. This water supply is
a fixed resource and it must be managed to ensure that an adequate supply is
maintained for the health and safety of the residents of the Village of
Winfield. This section includes provisions for efficiently using existing water
resources (subsection B of this section). If efficient use of water during peak
periods is insufficient to ensure an adequate water supply then temporary
emergency regulations will be enacted during a declared water emergency
(subsection C of this section). Special provisions and enforcement of
subsections B and C of this section are outlined in subsection D of this
section. (Ord. 2006-7-30, 7-20-2006)
   B.   Use Of Water During Peak Usage Periods: Peak usage commonly exceeds the
Village's Lake Michigan water allocation during the summer from May 15 through
September 15. In order to ensure water is available to all residents during
this peak usage period the Village Manager and Village officials will enforce
the following regulations that restrict nonessential and wasteful outside water
usage:
      1.   General Watering Restrictions: During hot summer months most water
used in the outdoors in the middle of the day (10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.) is lost
to evaporation. This is inefficient and wasteful of the Village's limited Lake
Michigan water supply. The Village recognizes that residents and business
owners wish to keep lawns, trees and gardens green and healthy. Therefore,
watering of lawns, trees, and gardens may only occur from four o'clock (4:00)
P.M. (evening) through ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. (morning). Watering outdoor
lawns, gardens, and trees from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00)
P.M. during the period from May 15 through September 15 is prohibited.
Furthermore, sprinkler watering shall not occur on consecutive days. To ensure
this, the ability to water lawns and landscaping with sprinklers shall be
dependent on the address of the property; properties with odd numbered
addresses shall be permitted to use sprinklers during sanctioned hours only on
odd numbered calendar days; properties with even numbered addresses shall be
permitted to use sprinklers during sanctioned hours only on even numbered
calendar days. (Ord. 2015-11-32, 11-19-2015)
      2.   Sodding And Seeding Restrictions:
         a.   General Restriction: Establishing turf is water intensive,
particularly during hot summer months. No person shall lay or plant, cause to
be laid or planted, or permit to be laid or planted, any sod or seed in the
Village from July 1 to September 1, unless a permit has been issued by the
Village Manager. Sod or seed laid or planted prior to July 1 of the calendar
year may be watered after July 1.
         b.   Permit And Petition To Lay Sod Or Plant Seed: Notwithstanding the
provisions of subsection B2a of this section, the Village Manager may authorize
a permit for the laying of sod or planting of seed during the prohibited time
period if the Village Manager determines that the watering required for the sod
or seed will not place an undue demand upon the Village water distribution
system. This permit will be issued by the Village to the owner of the property
where the sod is to be laid or the seed is to be planted and the contractor who
will lay the sod or seed to be planted on the property. The petition will
include:
            (1)   The address and legal description of the property where the
sod is to be laid or grass seed is to be planted.
            (2)   The name and address of the owner of the property.
            (3)   The name and address of the contractor.
            (4)   The number of square feet of sod to be laid or grass seed
planted.
            (5)   The date on which the sod is to be laid or grass seed
planted.
            (6)   The source of water that will be used to water the sod or
grass seed (if other than the Village water distribution system), the method by
which the water will be transported to the site, the number of days on which
such watering shall be done, and the amount of water, in gallons, to be so
used.
            (7)   The date when the property owner will commence using water
from the Village water distribution system for lawn sprinkling purposes and the
amount of water, in gallons, which will be required at such time for the proper
care of such sod.
   C.   Emergency Regulations:
      1.   Authority Of Village Manager: The Village Manager is authorized by
the Village President and Board of Trustees to declare a state of emergency and
establish regulations restricting the use of water supplied by the Village of
Winfield distribution system whenever the water supply of the Village is
diminished such that it is likely to become dangerous to the health and safety
of the public. Water use regulations may impose limitations on days and hours
of water use for some or all purposes, and to prohibit specified water uses.
The maximum duration of the restrictions imposed by the Village Manager is
twenty one (21) calendar days.
      2.   Action By The President And Board Of Trustees: At the conclusion of
the Village Manager's emergency regulation authority or in the place of the
authority of the Village Manager, whenever the total demand for water is
greater than is consistent with the public health, safety or welfare, the Board
of Trustees may issue their own emergency water conservation regulations as
provided in this Code. (Ord. 2006-7-30, 7-20-2006)
      3.   Levels Of Emergency Restrictions: The following levels of emergency
regulations are provided:
         a.   Level One; Odd/Even Outside Water Use: The ability to use water
outside for any purpose shall be dependent on the address of the property;
properties with odd numbered addresses would be permitted to use sprinklers and
water landscaping during sanctioned hours on odd numbered calendar days;
properties with even numbered addresses would be permitted to use sprinklers
and water landscaping during sanctioned hours on even numbered calendar days.
(Ord. 2015-11-32, 11-19-2015)
         b.   Level Two; Total Ban On Water Sprinkling: No outdoor sprinkling,
watering or other uses, such as washing vehicles, would be permitted at any
time.
      4.   Public Notice Of Emergency Regulations: Public notice of a declared
water emergency and water use regulations issued by the Village Manager or
Trustees will be posted at the Village Hall, by news release to the local
newspapers, radio media and cable antenna television, and by any other
reasonable manner that the Manager or Trustees may devise. Further, the Village
Manager and Trustees are required to keep both entities mutually informed of
the nature of the emergency and the regulations that have been enacted.
      5.   Duration Of Emergency Regulations: The temporary emergency
regulations established by the Village Manager or Trustees shall remain in full
force until one or more of these conditions occur:
         a.   The Village Manager determines that the emergency no longer
exists and that the limited water supply is no longer a threat to Village
residents' health and safety. The Village Manager will then lift the water
emergency and rescind the emergency regulations by notice (see subsection C4 of
this section).
         b.   The President and Board of Trustees modifies, repeals or makes
permanent the emergency regulations by enacting an ordinance passed at any
regular or special meeting of the Village Board.
         c.   The President and Board of Trustees will review the status of the
water emergency and water use restrictions on a monthly basis. The Board of
Trustees may vote to rescind the water emergency and water use restrictions by
a majority vote. Trustees are required to notify Village residents that the
water emergency and its provisions have been rescinded by notice (see
subsection C4 of this section).
   D.   Enforcement And Special Provisions:
      1.   Violation:
         a.   The actions of subcontractors (e.g., lawn maintenance contractor)
are the responsibility of the property owner, and ordinance violations by
subcontractors will be issued to the property owner.
         b.   The Village Manager or designee shall issue a written warning to
the person or business owner that is violating the provisions of this section
and instruct them to cease the violation and to comply with this section. (Ord.
2006-7-30, 7-20-2006)
         c.   Any person who shall violate a provision of this section, or fail
to comply therewith after receiving a warning as provided in subsection D1b of
this section, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be fined as
provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2006-7-30, 7-20-2006; amd. per correspondence dated
7-31-2018)
         d.   Each day that a violation occurs, or is permitted to continue by
the violator, shall be considered a separate offense.
   E.   Appeal Process: The Village understands that there may be special
circumstances that require water use that is not in compliance with this
section. An appeal may be made by the property owner to the Village Manager.
This appeal will be reviewed by the Village Trustees and President at the next
Trustees' meeting. If approved by the Village Trustees then the Village Manager
will issue a variance based on the negotiated terms of the variance request.
The appeal submitted to the Village Manager and Trustees will include:
      1.   Name and address of the appealing party.
      2.   Address of the location where the special circumstances and
otherwise prohibited water use will occur.
      3.   Description of the circumstances of the appeal.
      4.   Description of the desired water usage, daily volumes required, and
the start and end dates of the water usage. (Ord. 2006-7-30, 7-20-2006)
8-4-7: UNLAWFUL USE OF WATER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to take or cause to be taken,
either directly or indirectly, any water from the water mains without having
first obtained lawful authority and permission so to do, by a strict compliance
with all the provisions and requirements of this chapter relative thereto; and
the taking, using and obtaining any water from the mains without first having
authority and permission so to do, by a compliance with the provisions and
requirements of this chapter, shall be and does constitute an offense and
subjects any person so offending to the penalty provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code; provided, that the taking of any water from any fireplug
to be used in extinguishing any fire shall not be considered an unlawful taking
of water under this subsection. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017; amd. per
correspondence dated 7-31-2018)
   B.   No person shall take water from any fireplug or hydrant connected with
the Winfield waterworks system, nor shall any person open any such fireplug or
hydrant for the purpose of taking water or for any purpose without a permit
unless such person is an employee of the Village or is a member of the Winfield
Fire Protection District or other personnel from an authorized fire department/
district, and is acting in the discharge of his duties as such. There shall be
a permit required and an administrative fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for an
entity to utilize the Village's water. The Village shall operate the valves,
hydrants, etc., at all times.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this subsection shall,
for the first offense, be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) or imprisoned for not more than ten
(10) days or both; and for any subsequent offense, shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) or
imprisoned for not to exceed thirty (30) days or both. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-
2017)
8-4-8: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the foregoing rules and regulations, or any
clause or provision of this chapter or such other ordinances as the Board of
Trustees may hereafter adopt, where there is no provision to the contrary,
shall, on conviction, in addition to the enforcement of the forfeitures,
liabilities, stipulations and reservations herein contained, be punished as
provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Required Use Of Sewage Disposal Systems
8-5-3: Private Sewage Disposal (Rep. by Ord. 2007-6-31, 6-7-2007)
8-5-4: Building Sewers And Connections
8-5-5: Discharges Into Sewer Systems
8-5-6: Permit Application Forms
8-5-7: Wastewater Service Charge
8-5-8: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-5-9: Overhead Sewer Installation Assistance Grant Program
8-5-10: Penalties
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
AEROBIC TREATMENT PLANT: Equipment or devices for the treatment of sewage by
the forced addition of air or oxygen.
APPROVING AUTHORITY: The president and board of trustees of the village of
Winfield acting by and through their duly authorized agents.
AVERAGE STRENGTH SEWAGE: Characteristics not exceeding a five (5) day twenty
degrees centigrade (20°C) biochemical oxygen demand of two hundred milligrams
per liter (200 mg/l), a suspended solids content of two hundred twenty
milligrams per liter (220 mg/l) and an ammonia nitrogen content of fifteen
milligrams per liter (15 mg/l) based on one hundred (100) gpcpd.
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
per liter.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy (includes a dwelling unit).
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building sewer or other approved point of discharge beginning
five feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The building inspector of the village of Winfield or his
authorized deputy, agent or representative as designated by the village
president and board of trustees.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. The purpose of a control manhole is to provide access for a village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of revenue bonds outstanding and shall be
allocated to the various waste characteristics such as volume, BOD, suspended
solids and ammonia nitrogen.
DIRECTOR: The chief administrative officer of the state of Illinois
environmental protection agency.
DOMESTIC WASTE: Wastewater derived principally from plumbing fixtures, drains
in dwellings, business or office buildings, institutions, food service
establishments and similar facilities. It shall not include industrial or
commercial processing waste.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building designed or used for human occupancy.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
EFFLUENT: The outflow from a tank or other treatment unit.
EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Defined in any applicable "NPDES permit".
EFFLUENT RECEIVING TRENCH: A seepage line of gravel or gravelless design used
to receive the treated discharge from an aerobic treatment plant or sand filter
prior to discharge to the ground surface or other location.
FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided by title II - grants for
construction of treatment works of the act.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
HUMAN WASTE: The normal excretory waste of the human body.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Any nongovernmental, nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which discharges more than the equivalent of twenty five
thousand (25,000) gallons per day (gpd) of sanitary wastes and which is
identified in the "Standard Industrial Classification Manual"; 1972, office of
management and budget, as amended and supplemented under one of the following
divisions:
 
Division A Agriculture.
           Forestry and fishing.
Division B Mining.
Division D Manufacturing.
Division E Transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary services.
Division I Services.
 
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
INFILTRATION: The water entering a sewer system, including building drains and
sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to, defective
pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. (Infiltration does not
include, and is distinguished from, inflow.)
INFILTRATION/INFLOW: The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
INFLOW: The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains and
sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellars, yards
and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges, drains
from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface runoff, street
wash waters or drainage. (Inflow does not include and is distinguished from
infiltration.)
MALFUNCTION: A condition whereby a private sewage disposal system: a)
discharges untreated or partially treated sewage to the ground surface or
effluent backs up into the building from the private sewage disposal system;
and b) the private sewage disposal system cannot be repaired or cannot be
repaired without renovation.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
administrator, or where appropriated by the director, after enactment of the
federal water pollution control amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge
of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the federal act.
OPERATION OR MAINTENANCE COSTS: All costs, direct and indirect (other than debt
service), necessary to ensure adequate wastewater treatment on a continuing
basis, conforming with related federal, state and local requirements, and
ensuring optimal long term facility management. These costs include an annual
charge for replacement of equipment computed on the basis of the cost of
equipment replacement divided by its useful life.
OWNER: Anyone having legal title to the lot, tract or parcel of land for which
usage or service from the sanitary sewerage system of the village is provided
and/or proposed.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
PERCOLATION TEST: A test at a depth of a proposed seepage system or similar
component of a private sewage disposal system to determine the water absorptive
capacity of the soil and determine the seasonal high water table.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in grams per liter of solution. It shall be determined by one of the
procedures outlined in standard methods.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day containing seventeen-hundredths (0.17)
pounds of BOD and twenty-hundredths (0.20) pounds of suspended solids.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewater from sources before introduction into
the wastewater treatment works.
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: Any sewage handling or treatment facility
receiving domestic waste from less than fifteen (15) persons or population
equivalent and having a ground surface discharge or any sewage handling or
treatment facility receiving domestic waste and having no ground surface
discharge.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PROPERTY: A tract of land for which legal title has been recorded.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer dedicated to or provided by or subject to the
jurisdiction of the village consisting of collector sewer, interceptor sewer,
force main and pumping station. It shall also include sewers within or outside
the village boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge
into the village sanitary sewer system even though those sewers may not have
been constructed with village funds.
REASONABLY AVAILABLE: An Illinois environmental protection agency approved
sewerage system shall be reasonably available for connection if: a) the
requirements of subsection 8-5-4A3 of this chapter and all other requirements
of this code are met, b) the sewerage system is located contiguous to the
property in a public right of way or easement, and c) the sewer or service stub
can be reached without tunneling or boring for a distance of more than forty
feet (40') under a roadway, building, or flowing stream or combination of them.
RENOVATION: Adding or replacing a septic tank(s) or adding to or replacing
septic fields or seepage beds. Replacement of limited sections of damaged pipe
does not constitute renovation.
REPAIR: Any change or alteration of a private sewage disposal system that does
not constitute renovation.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL USER OR NONINDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user.
SANITARY SEWAGE: The combination of liquid and water carried wastes discharged
from sanitary plumbing conveniences by reason of normal human and domestic
activities.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
SCUM: The mass of sewage solids floating at the surface of sewage.
SEEPAGE BED: A shallow pit with level bottom containing gravel and distribution
piping designed to allow septic tank effluent to seep into the ground.
SEEPAGE FIELD: A system of open jointed or perforated pipes placed in trenches
to which the effluent from a treatment unit is discharged for seepage into the
soil. The field is covered with earth.
SEPTAGE: The accumulated sludge and scum removed in the maintenance of a
private sewage disposal system.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices, structures and equipment
for treating sewage.
SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
SEWERS: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
SHALL, MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
SLUDGE: The accumulated solids settled from waste.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which concentration of
any given constituent or quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of duration
longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times the average twenty
four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water, Sewage
And Industrial Wastes", published jointly by the American Public Water Works
Association and the Federation Of Sewage And Industrial Wastes Association.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
SURCHARGE: That part of the user charge system in addition to the user charge
and debt service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes
discharges are greater than normal domestic sanitary sewage wastes and is
imposed to recover the cost of treating excess strength industrial wastes.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in standard methods.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
USER CHARGE: A charge established for users of the treatment facilities in the
proportionate share to each user of the cost of operation and maintenance
including replacement of such facilities pursuant to section 204(b) or PL 92-
500 and shall include surcharges for the treatment of any excess strength
wastes.
USER CLASS: The type of user either "residential or commercial" or "industrial"
as defined.
VILLAGE: The village of Winfield.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. It may be a combination of the
liquid and water carried domestic wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per bimonthly period established for all
users of the wastewater facilities. It shall consist of the total of the basic
user charge, the basic user rate, surcharge, if applicable, and the debt
service charge.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "wastewater treatment plant" or "sewage treatment plant" or "pollution
control plant".
WATER AND SEWER FUND: The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received and expenses incurred in the operation of the waterworks and/or
sewerage system. These revenues and expenses shall be segregated so that water
system revenues and expenses shall be recorded in the waterworks account of the
water and sewer fund and revenues and expenses of the sewerage system shall be
recorded in the sewerage account of the water and sewer fund.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 684, 3-14-1984; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 2007-6-31, 6-7-2007)
8-5-2: REQUIRED USE OF SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Public sanitary sewers or private sewage disposal systems which are in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter shall be the only lawful
means of disposing human waste or domestic waste within any area under the
jurisdiction of the village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any watercourse, pond, ditch, lake
or other body of surface or ground water within any area under the jurisdiction
of the village, any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 684, 3-14-1984)
8-5-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
(Rep. by Ord. 2007-6-31, 6-7-2007)
8-5-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections to or opening into, use, alter or disturb any village sanitary or
storm sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit
from the village. Application for such permits shall be made to the village and
shall be accompanied by the applicable fee and a statement describing the
purpose of the connection, the premises to be served, the specifications of the
pipe to be connected and of the drain from the house to the public sewer.
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Fees: There shall be two (2) classes of building
sewer permits:
         a.   For residential and commercial service; and
         b.   For industrial service to users producing industrial wastes.
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the village 1 . The permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the village. Previously utilized building sewers may be approved
for use in connection with new buildings only when they pass the exfiltration
test as set forth in subsection C of this section. Users which will discharge
industrial wastes shall provide information describing its wastewater
constituents and characteristics, its type of products or activity and its
standard industrial cost (SIC) number. A review and inspection fee is hereby
established for each class of permit and shall be revised periodically by the
village as necessary to defray the cost of reviewing the submitted information
and conducting inspections. The fees shall be as set forth in subsection 8-2-2-
3B of this title. The review and inspection fees shall be paid to the village
at the time the application is filed. The review and inspection fees are in
addition to other building, treatment plant, sewer extension, building sewer
connection and user charges and fees as set forth in this chapter or other
ordinances enacted by the village.
      3.   Restrictions On Permit Issuance: A building sewer permit shall be
issued and a sewer connection shall be allowed only if it is demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the village that the receiving sewerage facilities
including sewers, pumping stations and wastewater treatment facilities, have
sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently handle the additional
anticipated wastewater flow rate and BOD, suspended solids and ammonia nitrogen
loading.
The determination of sufficient reserve capacity shall be based on the
following:
         a.   Service zoning requirements of the property at the time
application for permit is made.
         b.   Capacity reserved through any annexation agreement.
         c.   Flow rate, BOD loading and suspended solids loading from domestic
sources shall be based on tables and figures found in the "Illinois Recommended
Standards For Sewage Works", dated March, 1980, as amended and as follows:
Resident occupancy criteria. Table no. 1, appendix A.
Commonly used quantities of sewage flows from miscellaneous type facilities.
Table no. 2, appendix B.
Ratio of peak to daily average flow. Figure 1, appendix D.
Daily average flow rates in accordance with section 22.1 (capacity of existing
sanitary sewers which will receive the planned wastewater shall be calculated
on the basis of 130 gallons per capita per day which includes allowances for
infiltration for all existing service areas).
BOD and suspended solids loading, in accordance with section 43.32.
         d.   Ammonia nitrogen loading from domestic sources shall be based on
a concentration of fifteen milligrams per liter (15 mg/l).
         e.   Flow rates, BOD loadings, suspended solids loadings and ammonia
nitrogen loadings for commercial and/or industrial waste sources shall be
submitted, with justifying data, to the village for review.
   B.   Separate Building Sewers Required: A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building or dwelling unit. No person shall be
permitted to construct or maintain any sewer connection, building sewer or
building drain connecting a building or dwelling unit owned by him to the
public sanitary sewer across or under the property of another unless easement
provisions satisfactory to the village are conveyed to the owner of the
building sewer which allows for construction, replacement and maintenance of
the sewer.
   C.   Use Of Previously Utilized Building Sewers: Previously utilized
building sewers may be approved for use in connection with new buildings only
when they pass the exfiltration test as hereinafter set forth. The exfiltration
test shall be conducted at the expense of the person seeking approval to use
the existing sewer and in the presence of an authorized representative of the
village. The exfiltration test shall be performed by plugging the end of the
building drain at point of connection with the public sewer and filling the
building drain with water and testing with six feet (6') of water.
   D.   Construction Requirements: The methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes 2  and other
applicable rules and regulations of the village.
      1.   Approved types of service connections of the building sewer to the
public sewer shall be one of the following:
         a.   Type 1: Connection to wye branches which were installed at the
time of construction. Connections to existing wye branches shall be made with
an approved type of joint material of the bituminous type or an approved
compression coupling. The connection shall be completely watertight. No
connection shall be allowed to any damaged wye branch. If damage occurs during
the making of the connection, the wye branch shall be taken out of the main
sewer by the plumber and replaced either by an undamaged wye or by straight
pipe of the same material, inside diameter and wall thickness. If straight pipe
is used in the replacement, type 2 connection methods shall be used. Concrete
encasement of the wye branch, connection joint or any other part of the
connection shall not be deemed watertight and shall not be allowed as a method
of repairing a damaged joint.
         b.   Type 2: Connections of the saddle type installed in the main
sewer connections of this type shall be made in a smooth, round hole, machine
drilled into the main pipe. The fitting used in the connection shall be made in
such a manner as to ensure that no protrusion of the fitting into the main
sewer pipe shall result. The connector shall fit perfectly the contour of the
inside of the sanitary sewer and shall be specifically designed to fit any
particular size main sewer pipe into which the connection is made. The machine
drilled hole shall be of such size to provide one-eighth inch (1/8") clearance
between the outside of the fitting and the hole. The space thus provided shall
be completely filled with joint material. The space between the shoulder of the
fitting and the face of the main sewer pipe shall be one-eighth inch (1/8")
thick and this space shall also be completely filled with joint material.
The joint material used for the type 2 service connection shall be completely
waterproof and shall be capable of withstanding any condition of stress or
strain likely to be encountered in normal sanitary sewer construction or
maintenance. Concrete encasement will not be considered waterproof. The fitting
shall be manufactured of either cast aluminum alloy, cast iron or vitrified
clay pipe and shall be capable of receiving all normally used type of pipe for
service connections.
The type 2 drilling machine herein described shall be of the type manufactured
by Smith and Loveless, Division - Union Tank Car Company, Lexana, Kansas;
Wheeler Manufacturing Corporation, Ashtabula, Ohio; or approved equal. Tapping
and connection shall be made in the presence of an authorized village
inspector.
Type 1 connections may be used in existing sanitary sewers when wye branches
previously installed are readily and conveniently available. If existing wye
branches cannot be found readily or are not located properly for providing the
needed service, type 2 connections shall be made. When new sanitary sewers are
constructed, type 1 connections may be made in cases where the connection is
made during construction and before backfilling of the sanitary main sewer
trench.
Type 2 connections shall be made in all cases where services are installed
subsequent to construction and backfilling operations. No wye branches shall be
installed and covered up for future use except when excessive depth, new
subdivision design or other unusual conditions exist, and then only with prior
approval of the village.
      2.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the Water
Pollution Control Federation (WPCF) manual of practice (MOP) no. 9 and the
American Society Of Testing Materials (ASTM) referenced in MOP no. 9 shall
prevail.
      3.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
      4.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the village
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. Each and every part of a sewer connection shall be inspected and
approved by the village before being concealed or backfilled.
      5.   Any person filling in an excavation without having first received
the written approval of the village, as provided in this chapter, shall, in
addition to suffering the fine herein imposed, expose the sewer for inspection
by the village at no cost to the village. In any case where the inspector finds
the work on any sewer not done in a satisfactory manner as herein provided, he
shall serve written notice on the person to whom the permit is issued, stating
wherein such work is deficient and ordering said person to remedy such defect
within twenty four (24) hours. In the event such person fails to comply
therewith, the village may cause such defect to be corrected and the expense of
that correction shall be borne by the person to whom the permit was issued.
      6.   All excavations for building sewer installation within streets or
parkways shall comply with the provisions of title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
   E.   Costs Of Construction, Maintenance And Repair: The responsibility to
bear construction, replacement and maintenance costs shall be divided in the
following manner:
      1.   Construction Cost: All costs and expense incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer to the public sanitary sewer
shall be borne by the property owner. The owner shall indemnify the village
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
      2.   Replacement And Repair Cost: Private property owners shall be
responsible for and bear all the costs of excavation, pipeline replacement or
repairs and surface restoration associated with replacing or repairing the
building sewer located between the sewer main and the building; except for the
portion of any building drain or building sewer under a paved or graveled
public road surface with respect to that portion under a paved or graveled
road, the village shall be responsible for those repairs.
      3.   Maintenance Costs: The private property owner shall bear all costs
of cleaning and removing obstructions within the building drain and/or building
sewer to the point of connection at the public sanitary sewer. (Ord. 684, 3-18-
1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-5-6 of this chapter.
2 1. See section
  9-1-1 of this code.
8-5-5: DISCHARGES INTO SEWER SYSTEMS:
Regulations for discharges into sewer systems shall be as provided in chapter 7
of this title. (Ord. 2000-7-18, 7-20-2000)
8-5-6: PERMIT APPLICATION FORMS:
The various permit application forms for connecting to public or private sewers
within the village shall be and remain on file in the office of the village
clerk. (Ord. 684, 3-18-1984)
8-5-7: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
Wastewater service charges shall be as provided in chapter 2 of this title.
(Ord. 684, 3-18-1984)
8-5-8: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
By connection to and use of the public sewers, the user grants permission to
representatives of the village, bearing proper credentials and identification,
to enter all properties for the purposes of inspecting, observing, measuring,
sampling and testing wastewater sources and discharges to the village sewers.
The representative of the village shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge, treatability and contaminant levels. (Ord. 684, 3-18-1984)
8-5-9: OVERHEAD SEWER INSTALLATION ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM:
   A.   Establishment And Funding Of Grant Program: An overhead sewer
installation assistance grant (the "grant") is hereby established on a first
come, first served basis for qualified residents of the village, which grant
shall amount to fifty percent (50%) of the cost of installing a new overhead
sewer, up to a maximum grant amount of four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) per
residence. Such grant shall be funded by ordinance passed by the village
president and board of trustees each budget year and may be discontinued by the
village president and board of trustees at any time, provided that any grant
funds that have been earmarked as provided in subsection C2 of this section
shall be retained in the grant program to be disbursed upon final approval of
earmarked grant project(s) by the village.
   B.   Application For Grant:
      1.   In order to qualify for the grant, an applicant shall provide
evidence of one or more backups, as follows:
         a.   The location of the residence in a backup area as confirmed by a
village representative; and
         b.   Either:
            (1)   The presence of a backup or photographs of prior backups; or
            (2)   A claim submitted through an insurance company; or
            (3)   A receipt from a cleaning company (e.g., Service Master).
      2.   Upon receipt of an application for a grant, including evidence as
set forth in subsection B1 of this section, the village plumbing inspector
shall conduct an inspection of the premises, including an inflow and
infiltration inspection if one has not been previously conducted, and the
applicant shall be notified whether or not the home qualifies for the grant.
The village shall cover the administrative costs of the village, including
inspection(s).
      3.   After receipt of notification that the home qualifies for a grant,
the applicant shall submit to the village three (3) quotations from licensed
plumbers/contractors showing the projected cost of the work to be performed,
from which a contractor shall be chosen by the applicant.
   C.   Reimbursement For Costs:
      1.   Upon receipt by the village of a detailed invoice from the plumber/
contractor, the village plumbing inspector or his designee shall conduct a
financial inspection of the premises.
      2.   At the time said final inspection is scheduled, the village shall
earmark funds for reimbursement of the applicant up to the maximum set forth in
subsection A of this section. Costs for nonplumbing related improvements (e.g.,
paint, wallpaper, carpet, tile, drywall, etc.) shall not be reimbursable.
      3.   If the applicant does not pass final inspection within thirty (30)
days of the initial final inspection, the earmarked funds shall be returned to
the grant program.
      4.   After the work has passed final inspection, the village board shall
approve funds for disbursement at a regularly scheduled meeting of the board of
trustees, and a check in the amount of the grant shall be issued. (Ord. 2009-
08-24, 8-6-2009)
8-5-10: PENALTIES:
   A.   Anyone found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the village with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations, and upon failure to do so, the Village may
terminate water service to the violator. (Ord. 684, 3-14-1984; amd. 1994 Code;
Ord. 2009-08-24, 8-6-2009)
   B.   Anyone who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
for above shall be as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 6
BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-6-1: General Policy
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Water System
8-6-4: Cross Connection Prohibited
8-6-5: Survey And Investigations
8-6-6: Where Protection Is Required
8-6-7: Type Of Protection Required
8-6-8: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-6-9: Inspection And Maintenance
8-6-10: Booster Pumps
8-6-11: Violations
8-6-1: GENERAL POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   B.   Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the village of Winfield.
   C.   Policy: The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the village manager or his authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the village manager shall give notice
to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device at each
service connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately install such
approved device or devices at his own expense; failure, refusal or inability on
the part of the consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall
constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such
device or devices have been installed. The consumer shall retain records of
installation, maintenance, testing and repair as required in subsection 8-6-5D4
of this chapter for a period of at least five (5) years. The village manager
may require the consumer to submit a cross connection inspection report to the
village or its authorized agent to assist in determining whether or not service
line protection will be required. All cross connection inspections shall be
conducted by a cross connection control device inspector certified by the
Illinois environmental protection agency. (Ord. 2010-04-09, 4-1-2010)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of these regulations:
AGENCY: Illinois environmental protection agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation For Cross-Connection Control Of The University Of Southern
California, Association Of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation, or listed in the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source, such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control. No connection to
the village's public water supply system shall be made with any other water
system without the approval of the village board.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
plumbing code and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
CCCDI (CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE INSPECTOR): A person who is a licensed
plumber in the state of Illinois and has successfully completed both written
and performance examinations administered by the IEPA, as described in IEPA
regulations, 35 Illinois administrative code 653.802, or an IEPA certified
public water supply operator who has successfully completed both written and
performance examinations administered by IEPA as described in IEPA regulations,
35 Illinois administrative code 653.802.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's premises. A
building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water system.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree that could create a health hazard.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
Direct Cross Connection: A cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
Indirect Cross Connection: A cross connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of two (2) single,
independently acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A double
check valve assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of
the assembly and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each
check valve.
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 601 et seq.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge of pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative
code 601 et seq., for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      2.   Process waters;
      3.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      4.   Cooling waters;
      5.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems;
      6.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
      7.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used
in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures owned, permitted and/or
maintained by the village through which water is obtained and distributed to
the public, including wells and well structures, intakes and cribs, pumping
stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage tanks and appurtenances,
collectively or severally, actually used or intended for use for the purpose of
furnishing water for drinking or general domestic use.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should not be an actual
plumbing inspection.
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a consumer's
water system after it has passed through the service connection and is no
longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system. (Ord.
2010-04-09, 4-1-2010)
8-6-3: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   B.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the village manager up to the point
where the consumer's water system begins.
   C.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   D.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   E.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use. (Ord. 2010-04-09, 4-1-2010)
8-6-4: CROSS CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   1. No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the agency.
      2.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
      3.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective. (Ord. 2010-04-09, 4-1-2010)
8-6-5: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Access: The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times
to the approved cross connection control device inspector for the inspection of
the presence or absence of cross connections within the consumer's premises,
and testing, repair and maintenance of cross connection control devices and
assemblies within the consumer's premises. Except in emergency situations, the
village shall give twenty four (24) hour notice of intent to inspect the
premises.
   B.   Information; Inspection: On request by the village manager, or his
authorized representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the
piping system or systems or water use within the customer's premises. The
consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the village
manager for the verification of information submitted by the consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross connection survey or inspection
results. Except in emergency situations, the village shall give twenty four
(24) hour notice of intent to inspect the premises.
   C.   Surveys: It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to
arrange periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross connections to his water system
through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public
potable water system. All cross connection control or other plumbing
inspections must be conducted in accordance with the Illinois plumbing license
law, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3(1).
   D.   Backflow Prevention: It is the responsibility of the water consumer to
prevent backflow into the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   Removal; Installation Of Control Devices: All cross connections are
removed; or approved cross connection control devices are installed for control
of backflow and back siphonage.
      2.   Proper Installation: Cross connection control devices shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Inspection: Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at
the time of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the
agency as a cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection
of mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
      4.   Testing And Records:
         a.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         b.   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/19.
         c.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)   Date of each test;
            (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            (3)   Test results;
            (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
            (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)   Service performed and date completed.
   E.   Confidential Information And Freedom Of Information Act:
      1.   Water customers that file reports with the village may request that
portions of a report which may disclose trade secrets or proprietary processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public. To the extent
permitted by law, confidential portions shall be made available upon written
request to government agencies for uses related to this section. To the extent
permitted by law, portions of a report shall be available for use by the state
or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the
water customer furnishing the report. Any information accepted as confidential
shall not be transmitted to the general public until and unless written
notification is given to the water customer. It shall be the responsibility of
the water customer to prove confidentiality to the village by timely presenting
the basis for such a claim of confidentiality. The village shall not be
required to make data available to the public except in accordance with this
code and the Illinois freedom of information act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
140/1 et seq. (1963).
      2.   Nothing herein shall be construed to limit or restrict any water
consumer from exercising any right it may have to object to any request by the
village for confidential information from such user. (Ord. 2010-04-09, 4-1-
2010)
8-6-6: WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention assembly shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving premises,
where in the judgment of the village manager, actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply system exist.
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the village manager and the
source is approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system, which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the village manager.
      3.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the village manager and the cross connection control device inspector, are not
correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
determine whether or not cross connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
   C.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the village
manager determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public water
supply system exists:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.   Car washes.
      11.   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
      13.   Facilities utilizing a village board approved auxiliary water
source. (Ord. 2010-04-09, 4-1-2010)
8-6-7: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   The type of protection required under subsections 8-6-6A, B, and C of
this chapter shall depend on the degree of hazard, which exists as follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe (high) health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or (high) health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly, or a double check valve
assembly, shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health (low health hazard).
   B.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be connected to the
sprinkler system.
   C.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service. (Ord. 2010-04-
09, 4-1-2010)
8-6-8: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation For Cross-Connection
Control Of The University Of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society Of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification, and listed in the Illinois
plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
   B.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions and 35 Illinois administrative code 653.802, and
only as specified by the Research Foundation For Cross-Connection Control Of
The University Of Southern California or applicable industry specifications.
Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of the device shall be
performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be available on site. (Ord.
2010-04-09, 4-1-2010)
8-6-9: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions.
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within fifteen (15) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by subsection A of this section.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Village Manager. (Ord. 2010-04-09, 4-1-2010)
8-6-10: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the Village Manager, at
least once a year, that the device is operable. (Ord. 2010-04-09, 4-1-2010)
8-6-11: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The Village Manager or his authorized representative shall deny or
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water
service to any premises wherein any backflow prevention device required by
these regulations is not installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner
acceptable to the Village Manager, or if it is found that the backflow
prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross
connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure cutoff required by
these regulations is not installed and maintained in working order.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with
these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Village Manager, and the
required reconnection fee pursuant to this Code is paid.
   C.   Neither the Village Manager, nor its agents or assigns shall be liable
to any customers of the public water supply for any injury, damages, or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination of
the water supply was with or without notice.
   D.   The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 2010-04-09, 4-1-2010)
   E.   Any person found to be violating any provision of these rules and
regulations or an order of the Village shall be served with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and upon conviction shall be fined as
provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the Village
may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporter fees and
other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person
found to have violated this chapter or the orders issued hereunder. Each day a
violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
   F.   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or who tampers with any
device or method required under this chapter, shall upon conviction be fined as
provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the Village
may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporter fees and
other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person
found to have violated this chapter or the orders issued hereunder. Each day a
violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-
2019)
   G.   Any person who has knowledge of a backflow into any potable water
system or the public water system must report that backflow to the Water
Department immediately upon becoming aware of the backflow. Any person
violating any of the provisions of these rules and regulations in addition to
the fine provided, shall become liable to the Village for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned by reason of such violations, whether the same was caused
before or after notice. (Ord. 2010-04-09, 4-1-2010)
SCHAPTER 7
WINFIELD PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
8-7-1: General Provisions; Definitions
8-7-2: Adoption Of Pretreatment Standards
8-7-3: West Chicago Pretreatment Ordinance
8-7-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Policy: This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for
users of the publicly owned treatment works which is operated by the city of
West Chicago, and which receives wastewater flows from the village of
Winfield's wastewater collection system:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      3.   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      4.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      5.   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
and
      6.   To enable the village of Winfield to comply with its national
pollutant discharge elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and
disposal requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the
publicly owned treatment works is subject.
This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment works.
This chapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits, provides
for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities, establishes
administrative review procedures, requires user reporting, and provides for the
setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the
program established herein.
   B.   Administration: Except as otherwise provided herein, the public works
superintendent shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the public works
superintendent may be delegated by the public works superintendent to other
village personnel.
   C.   Abbreviations: The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter,
shall have the designated meanings:
BOD   Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR   Code of federal regulations
COD   Chemical oxygen demand
FOG   Fats, oil and grease
IEPA  Illinois environmental protection agency
mg/l  Milligrams per liter
NCPS  National categorical pretreatment standards
NPDES National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW  Publicly owned treatment works
PSES  Pretreatment standards for existing sources
PSNS  Pretreatment standards for new sources
RCRA  Resource conservation and recovery act
SIC   Standard industrial classification
SWDA  Solid waste disposal act (42 USC 6901 et seq.)
TSS   Total suspended solids
TTO   Total toxic organics
USC   United States Code
USEPA United States environmental protection agency (or its successor agencies)
 
   D.   Definitions: For the purposes of this chapter, the following words
shall have the meanings indicated, unless their context requires otherwise:
    A (As In Cyanide-A): Amenable to alkaline chlorination.
ACT: The federal water pollution control act, also known as the clean water
act, as amended (33 USC 1251 et seq.).
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency
(or its successor agencies).
AMMONIA: The concentration of ammonia-nitrogen in milligrams per liter.
APPROVING AUTHORITY: The president and board of trustees of the village of
Winfield, acting by and through their duly authorized agents.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER: 1. A principal executive officer
of at least the level of vice president, if the industrial user is a
corporation;
      2.   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively;
      3.   A duly authorized representative only if the authorization is made
in writing to the village by a person described above.
AVERAGE STRENGTH SEWAGE: Sewage with characteristics not exceeding a five (5)
day twenty degree Celsius (20°C) biochemical oxygen demand of two hundred
milligrams per liter (200 mg/l); a suspended solids content of two hundred
twenty milligrams per liter (220 mg/l), an ammonia-nitrogen content of fifteen
milligrams per liter (15 mg/l) based on one hundred (100) gpcpd, and a pH range
of 6.5 to 7.5.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligrams per liter, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory procedures as described in standard methods.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other
approved point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
BUILDING DRAINAGE SEWER: A sewer which carries storm drainage, surface water,
foundation drainage, and roof drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial
waste from the building plumbing to a public storm sewer or natural outlet.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The superintendent of building inspection/zoning
administration of the village or his authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
BUILDING SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries only sewage and industrial
wastes from the building to the public sanitary sewer.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): The quantity of oxygen consumed from a chemical
oxidant (standard potassium dichromate solution) under standard laboratory
procedures as described in standard methods.
CITY: The city of West Chicago.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer/director of public works or his authorized
representative.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, surface and ground water drainage.
COMBINED WASTE STREAM FORMULA: The formula as found in 40 CFR section 403.6(e).
COMMERCIAL USER: Shall include transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand, FOG,
suspended solids, pH, fecal coliform bacteria, and ammonia-nitrogen and
additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit.
COMPOSITE SAMPLE: A sample of wastewater based on a flow proportional or time
proportional method.
CONSISTENT POTW TREATMENT WORKS REMOVAL, POLLUTANT REMOVAL OR REMOVAL:
Reduction in the amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature or
concentration of a pollutant in the influent of the POTW to a less incompatible
or concentrated state of the effluent. Consistent POTW removal efficiency shall
be the difference between the average concentration of the pollutant in the
influent of the treatment plant and the average concentration of the pollutant
in the effluent of the treatment plant divided by the average concentration of
the pollutant in the influent.
CONSTRUCTION: Is considered to have commenced when:
      1.   Installation or assembly of facilities or equipment has begun;
      2.   Significant site preparation has begun for installation or assembly;
      3.   The owner or operator has entered into a binding contractual
obligation.
   CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. The purpose of a control manhole is to provide access for a
representative of the village to sample and/or measure discharges.
COOLING WATER: The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, to which the only pollutant added is heat.
CUSTOMER: A person, partnership, corporation, trust or other party which uses
and/or receives service from the waterworks and/or sanitary sewerage system of
the village.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of revenue bonds outstanding and shall be
allocated to the various waste characteristics such as volume, BOD, suspended
solids, and ammonia-nitrogen.
DIRECTOR: The director of IEPA.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
END OF PIPE: That point at which the user's combined regulated and unregulated
discharge enters the village collections system without additional discharges
diluting the flow.
END OF PROCESS: The point at which regulated process flows can be sampled,
prior to mixing with unregulated waste streams.
EXISTING SOURCE: Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge which is not a new source.
FATS, OIL, OR GREASE (FOG): Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats, waxes,
oils, and any other material that is extracted by trichlorotrifluoroethane
solvent.
FECAL COLIFORM: Any number of organisms common in the intestinal tract of man
and animal whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II - grants for
construction of treatment works of the act.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
FLOW: Volume of wastewater per unit of time.
GARBAGE: Solid waste from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food, and from the commercial handling, storage and sale of
produce.
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one time basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined in this section.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into a POTW
from any nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
act.
INDUSTRIAL USERS: Include establishments engaged in manufacturing activities
involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of material or substance
into products.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
INFILTRATION: The water entering a sewer system, including building drains and
sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to, defective
pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. (Infiltration does not
include, and is distinguished from, inflow.)
INFILTRATION/INFLOW: The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
INFLOW: The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains and
sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders; cellar, yard,
and area drains; foundation drains; unpolluted cooling water discharges; drains
from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers, cross connections from storm
sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface runoff, street
wash waters or drainage. (Inflow does not include, and is distinguished from,
infiltration.)
INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER: Includes schools, hospitals, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      1.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      2.   Therefore, is a cause of violation of any requirement of the POTW's
NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): section 405 of the
clean water act, the solid waste disposal act (SWDA) (including title II, more
commonly referred to as the resource conservation and recovery act [RCRA], and
including state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA), the clean air act, the toxic
substances control act, and the marine protection, research and sanctuaries
act.
LIVING UNIT: The same as defined in the zoning ordinance of the village for the
occupancy of one family.
LOT: Any parcel of land as set forth in the zoning ordinance of the village.
MAIN, WATER MAIN AND MAIN LINES: That portion of the water main to which the
service lines are attached and hooked up and which is owned by the village and
is located within a public way or easement serving an entire geographical area.
MAJOR WATER MAINS: Water mains of not less than twelve inches (12") in diameter
and looped at intervals of approximately every one-half (1/2) mile, conveying
water from wells or storage reservoirs to various sections of the water
distribution system.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l): A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent 1.00 milliter of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Any pretreatment standard
specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants which may be discharged
to a POTW by industrial users in specific industrial subcategories as
established in regulations promulgated by the USEPA in 40 CFR chapter I,
subchapter N.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT (NPDES PERMIT): A permit
issued under the national pollutant discharge elimination system for discharge
of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to the
act.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
NEW SOURCE: Any building, structure, facility, remodeling (if that remodeling
could result in the assigning by the village of a new standard industrial
classification code) or installation from which there is or may be a discharge
of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the publication of
proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c) of the act.
      1.   Construction is at a site where no other point source is located;
      2.   The process or production equipment causing discharge is totally
replaced due to construction; or
      3.   Production or wastewater generator processes of the facility are
substantially independent of an existing source at the same site.
OBJECTIONABLE SUBSTANCE: Any waste discharge that may cause interference with
the POTW plant operations, may cause pass- through to the receiving stream that
violates stream standards, may interfere with sludge disposal options, or may
interfere with collections system and lift station operations either singly or
synergistically with the waste or other dischargers, or that can result in harm
to worker health and safety.
OPERATION OF MAINTENANCE COSTS: All costs, direct or indirect (other than debt
service), necessary to ensure adequate wastewater treatment on a continuing
basis, conforming with related federal, state, and local requirements, and
assuring optimal long term facility management. These costs include an annual
charge for replacement of equipment computed on the basis of the cost of
equipment replacement divided by its useful life.
OWNER: Any person, partnership, corporation, trust, or other party having legal
title to the lot, tract, or parcel of land for which usage or service from the
waterworks and/or sanitary sewerage system of the village is provided and/or
proposed.
OXYGEN DEMAND: Any measurement of total oxygen demand using COD, BOD, or other
words.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
PASS-THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation).
PERMITTED WASTEWATER HAULER VEHICLE: A vehicle used for hauling wastewater,
which has been granted a permit under the requirements of this chapter.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group, partnership and municipality.
pH: The intensity of the acid or base condition of a solution, calculated by
taking the logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration.
POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar
dirt or industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into water.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing seventeen hundredths (0.17)
pounds of BOD and twenty hundredths (0.20) pounds of suspended solids.
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related to
pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user.
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: For any specified pollutant, village prohibitive
discharge standards, village specific limitations on discharge, the state of
Illinois pretreatment standards or the national categorical pretreatment
standards (when effective), whichever standard is most stringent.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PROPERTY SERVICE LINES: That portion of water lines and appurtenant
construction running from the water main to the house, building or improvement
upon the property.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer dedicated to or provided by or subject to the
jurisdiction of the village consisting of collector sewer, interceptor sewer,
force main and pumping station. It shall also include sewers within or outside
the village boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge
into the village sanitary sewer system, even though those sewers may not have
been constructed with village funds.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A treatment works as defined by section
212 of the act. The definition includes the wastewater treatment works operated
by the city and the wastewater collection system operated by the village. This
definition further includes any devices and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant
regardless of ownership, but does not include sewers, pipes, and other
conveyances not connected to the village POTW treatment plant.
Whenever this chapter requires notice to the POTW, said notice shall be
provided both to the village and the city.
REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR: The regional administrator for the USEPA for region V.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
RESIDENTIAL USER: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes, apartments,
and permanent multi-family dwellings.
SANITARY INTERCEPTOR SEWERS: Sanitary sewers which receive sewage from a number
of sanitary lateral sewers and conduct such sewage to point for treatment and
disposal.
SANITARY LATERAL SEWERS: Sanitary sewers which discharge into other sewers and
provide service directly to the various lots, tracts and parcels of land along
their routes.
SANITARY SEWAGE: The combination of liquid and water carried wastes discharged
from sanitary plumbing conveniences by reason of normal human and domestic use
activities.
SANITARY SEWAGE SYSTEM: Includes any and all of the following: a sewage
treatment plant or plants; collecting, intercepting and outlet sewers; lateral
sewers; force mains, conduits; pumping stations; ejector stations; and all
other appurtenances, extensions and improvements necessary, useful or
convenient for collection, treatment and disposal in a sanitary manner of
sewage and industrial wastes.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
SECONDARY WATER MAINS: A gridiron of water mains connected to the major water
mains to deliver the fire flow and domestic supply to the various properties
and customers along their routes.
SERVICE CHARGES: Charges for making the waterworks or sanitary sewerage system
ready to serve particular lots, tracts, or parcels of land.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices; structures and equipment
for treatment sewage.
SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
SEWERS: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
SHALL/MAY: Shall is mandatory; may is permissible.
SIGNIFICANT USER: An industrial user of POTWs wastewater system who:
      1.   Has a discharge flow of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons or
more per average workday;
      2.   Has in its wastewater incompatible pollutants as defined pursuant to
section 307 of the act, or by state statutes, or by applicable federal or state
rules and regulations, or compatible pollutants that exceed the strength of
normal domestic waste; or
      3.   Is found by the POTW, IEPA or USEPA to have a reasonable potential
to adversely affect, either singly or in combination with other contributing
industries, the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the plant's
effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the plant;
      4.   Is subject to any national categorical pretreatment standard; or
      5.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%)
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant.
SLUDGE: The settleable solids separated from the liquids during the wastewater
treatment processes.
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
pollutant, as measured by a grab sample, exceeds more than five (5) times the
allowable concentrations as set forth in this chapter or any pollutant,
including oxygen demanding pollutants, released in a discharge at a flow rate
and/or pollutant concentration which will cause interference with the POTW.
STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water, Sewage
And Industrial Waste", published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Federation Of Sewage
And Industrial Waste Association.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of the rainfall that is drained into the
sewers.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of public works of the village of Winfield.
SURCHARGE: That part of the user charge system in addition to the user charge
and debt service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes
discharges are greater than normal domestic sanitary sewage wastes and is
imposed to recover the cost of treating excess strength industrial wastes.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device as determined by standard methods.
T (As In Cyanide-T): Total.
TOTAL METALS: The sum of the concentration of metals in section 300.110.
TOTAL SOLIDS: The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): Total suspended matter, expressed in milligrams
per liter, that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater, or other liquids and is removable by laboratory filtration using a
reeve angel type 934A or 984H glass fiber filter disk as prescribed in standard
methods.
TOTAL TOXIC ORGANICS: The summation of all quantified values for the organics
as specified in the applicable regulation.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria set forth in 35 Illinois administrative code part 304 or water that
would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards benefited by
discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
UPSET: An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with applicable national categorical pretreatment standards
because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the industrial user. An
upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error,
improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack
of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
USAGE RATES: Rates for the use of the waterworks or sanitary sewerage system of
the village.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the treatment works will be
operated and shall be thirty (30) years from the date of startup of any
wastewater facilities constructed with a federal grant.
USER: Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater onto the POTW treatment plant.
USER CHARGE: A charge established for users of the treatment facilities in the
proportionate share to each user of the cost of operation and maintenance
including replacement of such facilities pursuant to section 204(b) of PL 92-
500 and shall include surcharges for the treatment of any excess strength
wastes.
USER CLASS: The type of user: "residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial", or "industrial" as defined herein.
VILLAGE: The village of Winfield.
WASTEWATER: The combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions including
polluted cooling water.
Industrial Wastewater: A combination of liquid and water carried waste,
discharged from any industrial user including the wastewater from pretreatment
facilities and polluted cooling water.
Sanitary Wastewater: The combination of liquid and water carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
WASTEWATER AND SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per quarterly period established for
all users of the wastewater facilities. It shall consist of the total of the
basic user charge, the basic user rate, which includes the surcharge, if
applicable, and the debt service charge.
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: The document or documents issued to a user by the
village allowing discharge to the POTW in accordance with the terms of this
chapter.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
WASTEWATER HAULER: Any person, partnership or corporation engaged in
transporting sanitary wastewater as a commercial venture.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with "wastewater treatment plant" or "sewage treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM: A grid of water mains to convey the water from the
source of supply to the point of use.
WATER STORAGE: A tank or tanks for storing water for fire protection or
equalization of demands.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
WATERS OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS: All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
systems, drainage system and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion
thereof.
WATERWORKS: Means and includes a water supply and distribution system in its
entirety or any integral part thereof including mains, hydrants, meters,
valves, standpipes, storage tanks, pump tanks, intakes, wells, impounding
reservoirs, pumps, machinery, purification plants, softening apparatus and all
other elements useful in connection with such system.
WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all
revenue received and expenses incurred in the operation of the waterworks and/
or sewerage system. These revenues and expenses shall be segregated so that
water system revenues and expenses shall be recorded in the waterworks account
of the waterworks and sewerage fund and revenues and expenses of the sewerage
system shall be recorded in the sewerage account of the waterworks and sewerage
fund. (Ord. 2001-4-6, 4-5-2001)
8-7-2: ADOPTION OF PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
The village of Winfield hereby adopts certain sections of the city of West
Chicago's pretreatment ordinance, as set forth in section
8-7-3 of this chapter.
Provided, however, wherever the following terms appear in said section
8-7-3 of this chapter, they shall be changed to read and shall mean as follows:
   A.   The term "city" or "city of West Chicago" shall be changed to read
"village of Winfield" except in sections 18-64.2(b)(13), (b)(14), (b)(18) and
18.64.4(c);
   B.   The terms "city engineer" or "director of public works" shall be
changed to read "public works superintendent of the village of Winfield"; and
   C.   The term "city council" shall be changed to read "board of trustees of
the village of Winfield". (Ord. 2001-4-6, 4-5-2001)
8-7-3: WEST CHICAGO PRETREATMENT ORDINANCE:
Sec. 18-64. Reserved.
Sec. 18-64.1. Use Of Sewers - Stormwater And Unpolluted Waters Not Allowed.
   (a)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (b)   Discharge of storm and unpolluted waters. Stormwater and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically
designated as storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the city.
Industrial cooling water [or] unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on
approval of the city engineer, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-64.2. Same - Prohibited Discharge Standards.
   (a)   General Prohibitions. The following discharges into the city sewerage
system are prohibited:
      (1)   Interference;
      (2)   Pass through;
      (3)   Any discharge that limits sludge disposal options.
   (b)   Specific Prohibitions. The following items are prohibited from
discharge into the city sewage system:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are or may be sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or be injurious or hazardous in any other way to the
POTW or to operation of the POTW, or any water streams with a closed- cup flash
point of less than one hundred forty (140) degrees Fahrenheit or sixty (60)
degrees centigrade using test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21 are
prohibited. At no time shall two (2) successive readings on a meter capable of
reading LEL (lower explosive limit) at a point at the nearest accessible point
to the POTW or at any point in the POTW be more than five (5) percent nor any
single reading greater than ten (10) percent. Materials for which discharge is
prohibited under this subsection include, but are not limited to, gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones,
aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, polychlorinated
biphenyls, polybrominated biphenyls, carbides, hydrides, stoddard solvents, and
sulfides.
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure,
bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood plastics,
tar, asphalt residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil,
mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes, or tumbling and demurring stones.
      (3) Any wastewater which will cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW, but in no case wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or greater than 10.0.
      (4)   Any wastewater containing incompatible pollutants in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, cause a violation of the water quality standards of the receiving
waters of the POTW, exceed limitation set forth in a national categorical
pretreatment standard (when effective) or in section 18-64.3 of this code or
create a public nuisance.
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastewaters are sufficient to create a
public nuisance or in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and safety
problems or are sufficient to prevent entry into sewers for their maintenance
and repair.
      (6)   In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW
to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or
regulations developed under section 405 of the act; any criteria guideline or
regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the RCRA,
SWDA, the clean water act, the toxic substances control act, the 503 sludge
regulations; or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used.
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit
or the receiving water quality standards.
      (8)   Any wastewater having a temperature at the point of discharge to
the POTW which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant
resulting in interference. In no case shall wastewater be introduced to the
POTW which exceeds sixty-five (65) degrees centigrade (one hundred fifty (150)
degrees Fahrenheit) at a point of entry to the system or which exceeds forty
(40) degrees centigrade (one hundred four (104) degrees Fahrenheit) at the POTW
treatment plant.
      (9)   Any pollutants, including compatible pollutants released at a flow
or pollutant concentration which [a user knows or has reason to know] will
cause interference to the POTW or will pass through the POTW.
      (10)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by state or
federal regulations.
      (11)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils (animal,
vegetable, mineral, or synthetic), whether emulsified or not, in excess of one
hundred (100) mg/l for industrial users and two hundred (200) mg/l for food
preparation establishments, or containing substances which may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between thirty-two (32) degrees Fahrenheit and
one hundred fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit, and zero (0) degrees centigrade and
sixty-five (65) degrees centigrade. Any discharge of petroleum oil,
nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil origin in amounts that
will cause interference is prohibited.
      (12)   Any garbage that has been improperly shredded.
      (13)   Any wastewater containing BOD, total solids, or suspended solids
of such character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle such materials at the sewage treatment plant; provided, however, that a
user may be permitted by specific, written agreement with the city, which
agreement to discharge such BOD or TSS may provide for special charges,
payments or provisions for treating and testing equipment.
      (14)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters including the NPDES permit of the city.
      (15)   Any discharge exceeding the standard established in 35 Illinois
administrative code 307.
      (16)   Any slug discharged to the POTW. All categorical and
noncategorical industrial users shall notify the POTW immediately of all
discharges that could cause problems to the POTW, including any slug loading.
      (17)   Limitation on mercury. The limitation on mercury, established 35
Illinois administrative code 307.103, allocated to industry shall not exceed a
concentration of 0.0005 mg/l.
      (18)   No waste discharged to the municipal sewer system shall contain
cyanide in excess of 0.30 mg/l.
         a.   Any person desiring to discharge cyanide or cyanogen compounds to
the municipal sewer system shall apply for and procure approval from the city.
The application shall contain sufficient information on discharge
concentrations, flows, etc., to provide adequate data to enable the city and
its representatives to evaluate the discharge and secure required Illinois
environmental protection agency approval.
         b.   When permitted, total cyanide shall not exceed ten (10) mg/l;
provided any sample tested shall not release more than two (2) mg/l of cyanide
when tested at a pH of 4.5 and at a temperature of one hundred fifty (150)
degrees Fahrenheit for a period of thirty (30) minutes. Such discharges shall
be permitted only when the agency has determined that no violation of the
effluent criteria of 0.025 mg/l concentration (alone or in combination with
other sources) will result from such discharge.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995; Ord. 2930, § 3, 9-5-1995; Ord. 4207, § 2, 5-23-2000;
Ord 2024-08-12, 8-1-2024)
Sec. 18-64.3. Same - Maximum Allowable Objectionable Substances.
The city will evaluate each toxic or objectionable substance on a
concentration-dilution basis and will establish maximum allowable discharge
concentration for each individual person, as shown on the following chart
labeled table A. The city may add, remove, or revise parameters and/or limits
as required to meet regulations or to ensure POTW compliance with permit. The
limits indicated in table A are to protect against the following:
      (1)   Decreased sewage plant treatment process efficiencies and degraded
effluent qualities exceeding the current requirements of the regulatory
agencies.
      (2)   Concentrations of any toxic or objectionable substance in the
sewage treatment plant effluent exceeding the current maximum limits
established by the regulatory agencies for such plant effluent flows.
      (3)   Any concentrations of toxic or objectionable substances in plant
effluent flows which will result in concentrations of such substances in the
receiving waters which will exceed the regulatory agency's maximum allowable
limits for these substances in the receiving waters.
      (4)   Any concentration which limits or prohibits intended sludge
disposal options.
      TABLE A
Maximum Allowable Objectionable Waste Which May Be Discharged Into The Sanitary
Sewer System
POLLUTANT LIMIT IN mg/l
POLLUTANT                    LIMIT IN mg/l
Arsenic                      2.0
Cadmium                      0.4
Chloride                     None
Total Chromium               5.0
Hexavalent Chromium          0.9
Copper                       2.0
Cyanide                      0.3
Lead                         2.0
Nickel                       0.6
Selenium                     None
Silver                       1.0
Zinc                         3.0
Ammonia Nitrogen             None
Mercury                      0.0005
Molybdenum                   None
Oil & Grease Petroleum Based 100
Oil & Grease FSE             200
Biochemical Oxygen Demand    None
Total Suspended Solids       None
pH                           5.0 - 10.0
Phosphorus                   None
 
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995; Ord. 4207, § 3, 5-23-2000; Ord. 4313, § 1, 11-21-
2000; Ord. 2024-08-12, 8-1-2024)
Sec. 18-64.4. Same - Allocation Of Pollutants.
   (a)   The total allocation of the pollutants to each existing industry will
be established for the industrial discharges of each pollutant as the number of
industries is obtained by sampling and analysis and wastewater discharge permit
applications are received, and with specific limitations on discharges
established in the individual discharge permits. The city shall reserve the
right to limit pollutants not specifically mentioned in table A on a case-by-
case basis in order to meet standards.
   (b)   Discharges from each separate discharge of a user, as measured under
the provisions of this code, shall not contain in excess of the permitted
allocation of the pollutants based upon a twenty-four-hour composite sample,
with the exception of FOG, cyanide, pH, and hexavalent chromium, which shall be
measured on the basis of grab samples. All such samples shall be measured and
met at the point of entry to the POTW collection system or "end of pipe"
excepting those categorical standards that are required to be met at end of
process as set forth in 40 CFR. All analyses shall be performed by methodology
as promulgated in the most recent 40 CFR 136.
   (c)   The city may maintain a reserve of ten (10) percent to fifteen (15)
percent of the maximum allowable influent limit of each pollutant for new
industries or increase with existing industries. The city will recalculate the
maximum concentrations from time to time to reflect removal credits allowed,
based on using site specific data.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995; Ord. 2930, § 4, 9-5-1995; Ord. 4207, § 4, 5-23-2000;
Ord. 2024-08-12, 8-1-2024)
Sec. 18-64.5. Same - Incorporation Of National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards.
   (a)   Upon the promulgation of the national categorical pretreatment
standard (NCPS) for a particular user, said standard, if more stringent than
the limitations imposed under this code for sources in that category, shall
when effective immediately supersede the limitations and conditions imposed
under chapter.
   (b)   New sources shall install and start up technology prior to discharge
and achieve compliance within the shortest time feasible, not to exceed ninety
(90) days after commencement of discharge.
   (c)   Pursuant to 40 CFR 403.6(c)(2) and (5), the city may convert mass per
unit of production limits to equivalent mass per day or connection limits,
which equivalent limits shall control as to any affected industrial user (IU)
in lieu of the promulgated standards. Such equivalent limits shall be
established on a case-by-case basis and shall be set forth in the individual IU
permit.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995; Ord. 2930, § 5, 9-5-1995)
Sec. 18-64.6. Same - Final National Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
All categorical users shall comply with the national categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR chapter I, subpart N, parts 405 through 471, as
amended, and all applicable federal, state and/or local statutes, ordinances,
codes, rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, any local control
authority limits. Where the regulations imposed pursuant to the national
categorical pretreatment standards are either more restrictive or less
restrictive than any other provision of any applicable federal, state, and/or
local statute, ordinance, code, rule or regulation, the regulation which is
more restrictive or imposes the higher or more stringent standard shall govern.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-64.7. Same - Discharged Waters Or Wastes.
   (a)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which water contains the substances or
possesses the characteristics enumerated in this section of the code and/or
which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR
403, and amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the city engineer,
may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes and require the violator to cease and desist
discharging said materials into the sewer system immediately;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge and also
require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating the waters
not covered by the existing sewer charges. If the city permits the pretreatment
or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to review and approval of the city and in accordance
with federal regulations (40 CFR 128) entitled "Pretreatment Standards," and
all other ordinances and codes pertaining thereto.
   (b)   The provisions of this subsection (b) are subject to any changes made
to 40 CFR 403.12(p)(1-4).
All industrial users shall promptly notify the POTW in advance of any
substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in their discharge,
including the listed or characteristic hazardous wastes for which the
industrial user has submitted initial notification under 40 CFR 403.12.
   (c)   Industrial users shall notify the POTW, the EPA regional waste
management division director, and state hazardous waste authorities in writing
of any discharge into the POTW of a substance, which, if otherwise disposed of,
would be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261. Such notification must
include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR part 261, the
EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or
other). If the industrial user discharges more than one hundred (100) kilograms
of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also
contain the following information to the extent such information is known and
readily available to the industrial user: An identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the waste stream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste
stream expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months. Such
notifications shall take place within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
effective date of this article. Industrial users who commence discharging after
the effective date of this article shall provide notification no later than one
hundred eighty (180) days after the discharge of the listed or characteristic
hazardous waste. Any notification under this paragraph need be submitted only
once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed
discharges must be submitted as described above.
Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of the previous paragraph of this
section during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen
(15) kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than
fifteen (15) kilograms of non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of
any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and
261.33(e), requires a one-time notification.
Subsequent months during which the industrial user discharges more than such
quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
In case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify
the POTW, the EPA regional waste management waste division director, and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within ninety
(90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
In the case of any notification made under this section, the industrial user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995; Ord. 2930, § 6, 9-5-1995)
Sec. 18-64.8. Same - Pretreatment.
All industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater pretreatment as
required to comply with this article and shall achieve compliance with all
applicable pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
appropriate statutes, regulations and this article. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the POTW shall be provided,
properly operated and maintained at the user's expense. All industrial users
shall obtain all necessary construction operating permits from the IEPA and
wastewater discharge permit from the city prior to commencing construction on
such facilities. Such pretreatment facilities shall be under the control and
direction of an IEPA-certified wastewater treatment operator. Any subsequent
significant changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and accepted by the POTW prior to the industrial user's
initiation of the changes.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-64.9. Same - Excessive Discharge.
No user shall increase the use of process water or in any way attempt to dilute
a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate pretreatment to
achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national categorical
pretreatment standards (NCPS) (when effective) or in any other pollutant-
specific limitations developed by the city.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-64.10. Same - Spill Containment.
   (a)   Each industrial user shall provide protection from discharge to the
POTW of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this article.
Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner's or user's own cost and expense.
   (b)   All industrial users whose wastewater includes or could include
compatible or incompatible pollutants must have detailed plans on file at the
city showing facilities and operating procedures to provide protection from
accidental and/or slug discharge as required by the city. All industrial users
shall complete construction of said facilities by January 1, 1987. No user who
begins contributing to or could contribute such pollutants to the POTW after
the effective date of this article shall be permitted to introduce such
pollutants into the POTW until accidental discharge facilities and procedures,
as appropriate, have been approved by the city and installed by the industrial
user. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not
relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to modify its facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this article.
   (c)   In the case of an accidental or deliberate discharge of compatible or
incompatible pollutants, it shall be the responsibility of the industrial user
to notify the POTW of the incident within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming
aware of any anticipated or unanticipated bypasses and spills. The notification
shall include name of caller, location and time of discharge, type of
wastewater, concentration and volume.
   (d)   Within seventy-two (72) hours following such an accidental or
deliberate discharge, the industrial user shall submit to the city a detailed
written report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be
taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Follow up reports may
be required by the city as needed. Such report, or reports, shall not relieve
the industrial user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may
be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage
to person or property; nor shall such report relieve the user of any fines,
civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this article or
otherwise. Failure to report accidental or deliberate discharges may, in
addition to any other remedies available to the city, result in the revocation
of the discharger's wastewater discharge permit.
   (e)   The industrial user shall control production of all discharges to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with all applicable regulations upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (f)   A notice in English and the language of common use shall be
permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or other prominent place
advising employees whom to call in the event of a discharge of a prohibited
material. Employers shall ensure that all employees who are in a position to
cause, discover, or observe such an accidental discharge are advised of the
emergency notification procedures.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995; Ord. 2930, § 7, 9-5-1995)
Sec. 18-64.11. Wastewater Haulers.
   (a)   Wastewater haulers shall discharge all sanitary and nonsanitary wastes
at the designated wastewater hauler dumping station.
   (b)   Wastewater haulers shall have a valid wastewater hauler discharge
permit before discharging wastes at the POTW. Each permitted wastewater hauling
vehicle shall prominently display a number issued by the city on both doors of
the vehicle cab. Such numbers shall be removable only by destruction. Decals
for this purpose will be provided by the city to each permitted wastewater
hauler.
   (c)   Each wastewater hauling vehicle shall meet the following conditions
before permits will be issued under section 300.140(b) of the act:
      (1)   Until the city provides scales for weighing wastewater hauling
vehicles, each truck tank shall have a sight glass calibrated in one hundred-
gallon increments.
      (2)   Each vehicle shall be equipped to use the quick- disconnect
couplers at the wastewater hauler dumping station.
   (d)   Representative samples of wastewater from both nonindustrial users and
industrial users discharged by a wastewater hauler shall comply with the
provision of section 18-64.3.
   (e)   Each load delivered to the wastewater dumping station must have a
wastewater hauler manifest properly filled out by the scale operator on duty
and signed by the wastewater hauler.
   (f)   All procedures for discharging, for cleanliness and for general
sanitary operation on the POTW property as prescribed by the city shall be
strictly adhered to by all wastewater haulers delivering wastewater to the POTW
dumping station.
   (g)   The source or sources of all liquid wastes being hauled to the POTW
treatment plant shall be properly documented using the city manifest system.
   (h)   Wastewater from a nonindustrial user shall not be mixed with
wastewater from an industrial user. Vehicles hauling wastewater from an
industrial user shall not be used to haul wastewater from a nonindustrial user
for disposal at the POTW.
   (i)   In addition to remedies available to the city set forth elsewhere in
this article, failure of a wastewater hauler to comply with the provisions of
this section shall be grounds for revocation of the hauler's discharge permit
by the city.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-65. Discharge Permits - Prohibition Of Discharges Without Or Contrary
To Permit.
It shall be unlawful for any industrial user to discharge wastewater to the
city POTW without making application for a permit by the city in accordance
with the provision of this article. It shall be unlawful to discharge
wastewater to the city POTW contrary to a permit.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-65.1. Same - Procedures For Receipt And Analysis Of IU's Reports.
All reports and notices submitted to the city by industrial users in accordance
with this article and 40 CFR 403.12 shall be received by the city engineer and
referred to the appropriate technical personnel for review. The city shall have
sixty (60) days from receipt of each industrial user's submittal to complete
its review and make any necessary response.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-65.2. Same - Required.
   (a)   Generally. All significant users existing or proposing to connect to
or to contribute to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All significant users which are
existing sources connected to or contributing to the POTW shall obtain a
wastewater discharge permit within ninety (90) days after the effective date of
this article. All industrial users which become significant users after
promulgation of this article shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit
within ninety (90) days after becoming a significant user. (The latter
includes, but is not limited to, industrial users regulated by a newly
promulgated national categorical pretreatment standard.) New sources (and
existing sources that become significant industrial users subsequent to
promulgation of categorical standards) are required to include baseline
monitoring reports prior to commencement of discharge for new sources and with
discharge application for existing sources. Information will include, but not
be limited to, data on production, flow and amounts of regulated pollutants and
intended methods of pretreatment.
   (b)   Wastewater Discharge Permit Application:
      (1)   Significant users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
shall complete and file with the city an application on a form to be prescribed
and furnished by the city.
      (2)   Existing significant users shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit within ninety (90) days after the effective date of this article.
Proposed significant users which are new sources shall apply at least ninety
(90) days prior to discharging to the POTW. In case of conflict between
application deadlines for significant users in section 18-65.2(a) and (b)(2),
the stricter deadline shall apply.
      (3)   If a significant user does not submit an application for a
wastewater discharge permit as required by section 18-65.2 of this article, the
use shall be considered in violation of this article and subject to enforcement
procedures as set forth in section 18-67 of this chapter.
      (4)   In support of the application, the significant user shall submit,
upon request by the city, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the
following information:
         a.   Name, address and location of the facility including the name of
the operator and owner.
         b.   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, bureau of the budget, 1972, as amended, or any successor manual, upon
the effective date thereof.
         c.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those set forth in section 18-55 of this article as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory.
         d.   Time and duration of discharge.
         e.   Average and maximum wastewater flow rates, in gallons per day,
including monthly and seasonal variations, if any.
         f.   Site plans showing all pipe sizes, manholes and location of
sanitary and storm sewers leaving the building or premises, together with all
connections to lateral sanitary and storm sewers.
         g.   Total number of employees and hours of operation of a plant.
         h.   Proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system and
the name of the IEPA-certified pretreatment operator.
         i.   Name of the authorized representative of the significant user.
         j.   Significant user's source of intake water, together with the
types of usage and disposal sources of water and the estimated volumes in each
category.
         k.   If additional significant user operation and maintenance or
pretreatment techniques or installations will be required to meet pretreatment
standards, the shortest schedule by which the significant user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established under section 18-64.
         l.   List of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility.
         m.   Any other information as may be deemed by the POTW to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
The following additional information is required of all national categorical
users but shall be required of any system user if deemed necessary by the
control authority for the purpose of protecting the collection system, the
POTW, or city staff working in these processes. If the significant user is
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards, the following
additional information shall be submitted:
         n.   Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily
flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from each of the following:
            1.   Regulated process streams; and
            2.   Other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula of 40 CFR section 403.6(e).
         o.   The significant user shall identify the national categorical
pretreatment standards applicable to each regulated process and shall:
            1.   Submit the results of sampling and analysis identifying the
nature and concentration of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each
regulated process. Both daily maximum and average concentration shall be
reported. The sample shall be representative of daily operation.
            2.   Where feasible, obtain samples through the flow- proportional
composite sampling techniques specified in the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standard. Where composite sampling is not feasible, a grab sample
is acceptable.
            3.   Sample based on the flow of the sampled stream as follows
(composite samples are required where feasible):
         i.   Where the flow of the stream being sampled is less than or equal
to approximately two hundred fifty thousand (250,000) gpd, the significant user
shall take a minimum of three (3) samples within a two-week period.
         ii.   Where the flow of the stream being sampled is greater than
approximately two hundred fifty thousand (250,000) gpd, the significant user
shall take a minimum of six (6) samples within a two-week period.
            4.   Take the samples immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, in order to evaluate compliance with the
national categorical pretreatment standards, the significant user shall measure
the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste from
stream formula of 40 CFR section 403.6(e). Where an alternate concentration has
been calculated in accordance with 40 CFR section 403.6(e), this adjusted limit
along with supporting data shall be submitted to the POTW.
            5.   Submit only with POTW authorization information which utilizes
only historical data, so long as the date provides information to determine the
need for industrial pretreatment measures.
            6.   Provide the time, date and place of sampling methods and
methods of analysis and certification that such sampling and analysis is
representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant discharges to the
POTW.
         p.   The significant user shall provide a statement, reviewed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user and certified by a qualified
professional, indicating whether national categorical pretreatment standards
and/or state and local limits are being met on a consistent basis and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance measures (O&M) or additional
pretreatment is required for the significant user to meet the national
categorical pretreatment standards and/or state and local limits.
         q.   If additional pretreatment or O&M will be required to meet the
national categorical pretreatment standards and/or state and local limits, the
significant user will provide the shortest schedule which will provide such
additional pretreatment or O&M. The completion date in this schedule will not
be later than the compliance date established for any applicable national
categorical pretreatment standard.
            1.   Where the significant user's national categorical pretreatment
standard has been modified by a removal allowance (40 CFR section 403.7) or the
combined waste stream formula (40 CFR section 403.6(e)) or net/gross
calculations (40 CFR section 403.15) at the time the significant user submits
an application, the information required in section 18-65.2(b)(4)p. and q.
shall pertain to the modified limits.
            2.   If the national categorical pretreatment standard for the
significant user is modified after the discharge application is submitted, the
significant user shall make any necessary amendment to information provided as
a response to section 18-65.2(b)(4)p. and q, and submit them to the city within
sixty (60) days after the modified limit is approved.
         r.   The following conditions shall apply to any schedule submitted in
response to section 18-65.2(b)(4)q.:
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable national categorical pretreatment standards and/or state
and local limits (e.g., hiring and engineer, completing preliminary plans,
completing final plans, executing contract for major components, commencing
construction, completing construction, etc.).
            2.   No increment referred to in section 18-65.2(a)(4)h.1. [18-65.2
(b)(4)r.1.] shall exceed nine (9) months.
            3.   Not later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress
report to the POTW including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the industrial user to return the construction to the
schedule established. In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse
between such progress reports to the POTW.
   (c)   Review Of Wastewater Discharge Permit Applications. The city will
evaluate the data furnished by the significant user and may require additional
information. The evaluation process may, at the discretion of the city, include
the inspection of the facilities of the applicant. After evaluation of the date
available, the city may issue a wastewater discharge permit. No temporary
permit will be issued by the city except as set forth in section 18-65.2(g).
   (d)   Permit Conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this article and all other applicable regulations,
user charges and fees established by the city. Wastewater discharge permits
shall contain the following:
      (1)   The wastewater discharge permit shall include the limits on daily
maximum and average pollutant loadings from the applicable pretreatment
standard (which includes federal, state and local limits) whichever is more
stringent.
      (2)   Where the national categorical pretreatment standards and/or state
and local limits are modified by a removal allowance (40 CFR section 403.7) or
the combined waste stream formula (40 CFR section 403.6(e)) or net/gross
calculations (40 CFR section 403.15) or fundamentally different factor variance
for nontoxics (40 CFR section 403.13) of the "general pretreatment
regulations," the limits modified shall be made part of the wastewater
discharge permit and shall be adjusted consistent with USEPA guidelines and
regulations.
      (3)   Limits on maximum and average flow rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization for each separate discharge
of a user.
      (4)   Requirements for installation and operation of inspection, sampling
and monitoring facilities.
      (5)   Specification for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for testing and
reporting schedule.
      (6)   Compliance schedule, if necessary.
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports.
      (8)   Requirements to retain for a minimum of three (3) years any records
of monitoring activities and results relating to wastewater discharge and for
affording the POTW access to said records.
      (9)   Requirements for advance notification to the POTW of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial discharge in the
volume or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system pursuant to the terms of section 18-65.2(e) of this
article.
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges as defined in
this article.
      (11)   Requirements for reporting pretreatment sludge disposal practices.
      (12)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this article and pretreatment requirements and standards.
      (13)   A statement of the civil and criminal penalties for violation and
the possibility of incarceration for falsification of information.
   (e)   Change In Conditions. In the event the type, quality, or volume of
wastewater from the property for which a wastewater discharge permit was
previously granted is expected to materially and substantially change as
reasonably determined by the permittee or city, the permittee shall give thirty
(30) days' notice in writing to the city and shall make a new application to
the city. Prior to information previously submitted and unchanged need not be
resubmitted by permittee. No permittee shall materially and substantially
change the type, quality, or volume of its wastewater beyond that allowed by
its permit without prior approval of the city.
   (f)   Duration. Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed five (5) years. The permittee shall file an
application for renewal of its permit at least ninety (90) days prior to
expiration of the user's permit. The industrial user shall apply, on a form
provided by the POTW, for reissuance of the permit. Upon reissuance, any
applicable provisions of the wastewater discharge permit shall be incorporated
as conditions of the new wastewater discharge permit. The terms and conditions
of the permit may be subject to modification by the city during the term of the
permit as limitations or requirements as identified in section 18-64 are
modified or other just cause exists. The significant user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in its permit at least thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date of change. Where any changes are made in the significant user's
permit, a reasonable time shall be given to achieve compliance.
   (g)   Transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
significant user for the process activity specified in the permit. A wastewater
discharge permit shall not be assigned, transferred or sold to a new owner or
new user in different premises or to a new change operation in the same or
different premises without the approval of the city. If the premises are sold
or otherwise transferred by the permittee to a new owner who will maintain the
operation in the same premises, then the permit held by the seller shall be
reissued by the city to the new owner as a temporary permit; provided, that the
new owner shall immediately apply for a new permit in accordance with this
article; and further provided, that the temporary permit shall only be
effective for ninety (90) days after the date of sale or transfer. The city
shall have the same remedies for violation of temporary permits as it has for
violation of other discharge permits.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995; Ord. 2930, § 8, 9-5-1995)
Sec. 18-65.3. Same - Denial; Appeal Procedure.
   (a)   No discharge permit shall be issued by the city to any person whose
discharge of material to sewers, whether shown upon his application or
determined after inspection and testing conducted by the city, is not in
conformity with city ordinances and regulations, or whose application is
incomplete or does not comply with the requirements of section 18-65.2(b) or
(c) as applicable. The city shall state the reason or reasons for denial in
writing, which shall be mailed or personally delivered to the applicant within
ten (10) days after denial.
   (b)   If the application is denied by the city, the industrial user may
obtain review of the denial by the city council, provided that the industrial
user shall give written notice of this request therefor within thirty (30) days
after receipt of such denial. The city council shall review the permit
application, the written denial and such other evidence, written and oral, and
matters as the applicant and city administrator shall present. The decision of
the city council shall be final.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-65.4. Same - Reporting Requirements For Permittee.
   (a)   Compliance Date Report. Within ninety (90) days following the date for
final compliance with applicable pretreatment standards, or in the use of a new
source, within forty-five (45) days following commencement of the introduction
of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to pretreatment standards shall
submit to the city a report, on forms provided by the city, indicating the
nature and concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated
process which are limited by pretreatment standards and the average and maximum
daily flow for these process units in the user facility which are limited by
such pretreatment standards. The report shall state whether the applicable
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis; and, if not, what
additional user operation and maintenance or pretreatment techniques or
installations are necessary to bring the user into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user or a corporate officer.
Baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with categorical deadlines
(ninety-day compliance reports), and periodic compliance reports must be signed
by a responsible corporate officer (president, secretary, treasurer, vice-
president or a person who performs similar policy making decisions), plant
manager, superintendent, partner, general proprietor, or a duly authorized
representative designated in writing by a person in responsible charge, and
contain the following certification:
"I certify, under penalty of law, that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and
complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false
information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing
violations."
   (b)   Periodic compliance reports:
      (1)   Any user, categorical or noncategorical, subject to an applicable
pretreatment standard, after the compliance date of such applicable
pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new source, after discharge of
wastewater to the POTW begins, shall submit to the city on or before the
twentieth day of the months of July and January for the preceding two (2)
calendar quarters a certified report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such applicable pretreatment
standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of measured or
estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
      (2)   At the discretion of the city, this report shall also include
concentrations of BOD/COD/TSS or other pollutants specified by the city.
Permittee shall sample and analyze its wastewater for BOD/COD/TSS or other
pollutants at the discretion of the city as set forth in the permit issued to
permittee.
      (3)   At the discretion of the city and in consideration of such factors
as a local high or low flow rate, holidays, budget cycles, the city may agree
to alter the months during which the above reports are submitted.
      (4)   The POTW may alter the reporting requirements via the industrial
user permit should additional wastestream constituents be determined by the
superintendent to be parameters of concern on a case-by-case basis.
   (c)   All industrial users that generate sludges from a pretreatment
facility shall be required to submit a report to the POTW which will describe
the sludge disposal methods of the industrial user. The report shall state the
volume of sludge produced on a daily basis, whether it is on a dry or wet
basis, the ultimate method and location of the sludge disposal and the permit
number authorizing the disposal. The report shall be submitted with the
periodic compliance report unless directed otherwise by the POTW.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995; Ord. 2930, § 9, 9-5-1995)
Sec. 18-65.5. Monitoring Facilities.
   (a)   All significant users shall provide and operate at the user's own
expense monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer or internal drainage systems. Such monitoring
facilities shall be provided at the end of a process and/or at the end of the
pretreatment as required for industrial users subject to categorical standards.
Pollutant concentrations and other prohibitions will be monitored at the end of
the pipe. The monitoring facility will normally be situated on the user's
premises but the city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause
undue hardship to the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public
street or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by
landscaping, parked vehicles, or other activities of the user.
   (b)   Whenever required by permit, any significant user shall install a
large manhole or sampling chamber for each separate discharge in the building
sewer in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the city,
installed and maintained at all times at user's expense, which shall have ample
room in each sampling chamber to permit the city to take accurate composite
samples for analysis. The chamber shall be safely, easily, and independently
accessible to authorized representatives of the city twenty-four (24) hours per
day, seven (7) days per week.
      (1)   Each sampling chamber shall contain a Palmer-Bowlus, Parshall flume
or equivalent unless a weir or similar device is approved by the city with a
recording, indicating, and totalizing register for measurement of the liquid
quantity or, at the discretion of the city, the metered water supply to the
industrial plant may be used as the liquid quantity where it is substantial to
the city that the metered water supply and waste quantities are approximately
the same, or where a measurable adjustment agreed to by the city is made in the
metered water supply to determine the liquid waste quantity.
      (2)   Sampling shall be performed as required by the user's wastewater
discharge permit. The city shall have the right to perform its own sampling at
any reasonable time.
      (3)   The sampling chamber, metering device, and documentation of the
frequency of sampling, sampling methods, and analyses of samples shall be
subject, at any reasonable time, to inspection by the city.
   (c)   All measurements, tests, and analyses to which reference is made in
this article shall be determined and performed in accordance with 40 CFR
section 403.12(g), as amended from time to time. Where sampling and analytical
techniques are not contained in said federal register reference, or are
inappropriate for a pollutant, sampling and analyses should be performed using
validated analytical methods as approved by the city.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-65.6. Inspection, Sampling And Records Keeping.
   (a)   The city may inspect the facilities of all industrial users and/or
require the completion of an industrial survey form provided by the city to
ascertain whether the purposes of this article are being met and if all
requirements of the article are being complied with. Persons or occupants of
premises in which a discharge source or treatment system is located or in which
records are kept shall allow the city or its representative ready access upon
presentation of credentials to all parts of said premises where wastewater is
generated or chemicals are stored for the purpose of inspection, sampling,
examination, and photocopying of records required to be kept by this article,
and in the performance of any of their duties. The city shall have the right to
set up on the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling, monitoring, and metering operations of wastewater and sludges. Where
a user has security measures in force which would require suitable
identification [sic] necessary arrangements with their security guards so that
upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city shall be
permitted to enter immediately for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities. Such arrangements shall be made by users with their security
guards within thirty (30) days of the passage of this article.
   (b)   The city and industrial users shall maintain records of all
information resulting from any monitoring activities required by this article
and, in the case of industrial users, shall include:
      (1)   The date, exact place, method, and time of sampling and the names
of the person or persons taking the samples;
      (2)   The dates analyses were performed;
      (3)   Who performed the analyses;
      (4)   The analytical techniques/methods uses; and
      (5)   The results of such analyses.
   (c)   The city and industrial users shall maintain such records for a
minimum of three (3) years. This period of retention shall be extended during
the course of any unresolved litigation regarding the discharge of pollutants
by the industrial user or operation of the city pretreatment program or when
requested by the USEPA regional administrator or the director of IEPA.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-65.7. Confidential Information.
   (a)   Information and data relating to an industrial user obtained from
reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs
and from inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental
agencies without restriction unless the user specifically requests, and is able
to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city, that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user. All effluent data shall be
available to the public without restrictions.
   (b)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, and until such time
as the city determines that the requested information is not entitled to
confidential treatment, the portions of a report which might disclose trade
secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the
public, but shall be made available upon written request to governmental
agencies for uses related to this article, the national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) permit, and for use by the state or any state agency
in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing
the report.
   (c)   Information and date provided to the city which is effluent data shall
be available to the public without restriction.
   (d)   The city shall implement measures to prevent the negligent release of
confidential information; however, neither the city nor its employees shall be
held legally responsible for release of information if they have acted in good
faith.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-66. Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors.
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful
ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the city of West Chicago and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-67. Reserved.
Sec. 18-67.1. Enforcement Procedures And Penalties - Public Notification Of
Significant Violators.
The city shall annually publish in the largest local newspaper published in the
city a list of industrial users who were in significant noncompliance with
pretreatment requirements or standards during the previous twelve (12) months.
The notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the
industrial user(s) during the same twelve (12) months.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-67.2. Same - Compulsory Compliance Procedures.
   (a)   Notice Of Violation And Compliance Meeting. Should a violation of this
article by a user occur, the city shall notify the offending user, in writing,
through a "notice of violation" as to the particulars of such violation or
violations and set a time and place for a meeting (hereinafter called a
"compliance meeting") to be attended by representatives of the city and the
user. The purpose of such a meeting shall be to establish such procedures,
investigations, studies and compliance measures as the city deems necessary and
desirable to control and prevent violation of this article. The user shall
cooperate fully with the city in making such investigations and studies.
   (b)   Compliance Directive:
      (1)   Following the completion of any procedures, investigations studies
as described in section 18-67.2(a) above, the city may issue a compliance
directive directing and requiring the user to take such action as may be
required to control and prevent violations of the article.
      (2)   If the city has sufficient information at the time of the
compliance meeting to determine necessary and desirable compliance measures, it
may, at the time of the compliance meeting, issue a compliance directive,
directing and requiring the user to take such action, including pretreatment,
without further investigation of study.
      (3)   Failure to comply with the compliance directive of the city shall
be deemed a violation of the provisions of this article and may be grounds for
revocation of the user's wastewater discharge permit and/or grounds for such
other actions as may be authorized for violation of this article.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-67.3. Same - Revocation Of Permit.
   (a)   Conditions For Revocation. Any user who violates this article, its
permit, the Illinois environmental protection act or the federal act, or
regulations promulgated under either act, or any of the following, is subject
to having the permit revoked in accordance with the procedure of this section:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of its discharge as determined by the user's or city
analysis.
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in process
activity or wastewater constituents and characteristics.
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises by city
representatives for the purpose of inspection or monitoring.
      (4)   Tampering with, disrupting, or destroying city equipment.
      (5)   Failure to report an accidental discharge of a pollutant.
      (6)   Failure to report an upset or user's treatment facilities.
      (7)   Violations of conditions of the permit.
   (b)   Procedures For Revocation:
      (1)   The city may order any user who causes or allows any action which
is subject to revocation under section 18-67.3(a) above to show cause before
the city council or its designee why its permit should not be revoked. A notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time and place of hearing to be held
by the city council or its designee regarding the violation, the reasons why
the action is to be taken, the proposed action, and directing the user to show
cause before the city council or its designee why its permit should not be
revoked. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ten (10) days before the
hearing. Service may be made on any agent or office of the corporation.
      (2)   The city council or its designee may conduct the hearing and take
the evidence and may:
         a.   Issue notices of hearings requesting the attendance and testimony
of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant to any matter involved in
such hearing.
         b.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city
council or its designee for action thereon.
      (3)   At any hearing held pursuant to this article, testimony taken must
be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will
be made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual copying charges thereof.
      (4)   After the city council or its designee has reviewed the evidence,
it may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing
either:
         a.   That the discharge permit be revoked and the service be
disconnected, or
         b.   That following a specified time, the permit shall be revoked and
sewer service discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or
other related appurtenances have been installed and operated properly to comply
with the discharge permit; or
         c.   Direct the user to cease the unauthorized discharge effective
after a specified period of time; or
         d.   That such other relief as deemed necessary by the city council or
its designee to abate the discharge be granted. Further orders and directives
as are necessary may be issued.
      (5)   Following an order of revocation, the user shall cease discharging
to the city POTW. Failure to do so shall be evidence of continuing harm to city
and provide grounds for the granting of injunctive relief or temporary
restraining orders.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-67.4. Same - Order To Show Cause Regarding Disconnection.
The city may, upon discovering an ongoing or potential discharge of pollutant
to the city POTW which presents or may present a danger to the environment or
which threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, immediately issue
and order to the user to show cause before the city council or its designee why
the city should not disconnect service, revoke the wastewater discharge permit
or seek injunctive relief to prohibit the discharger from making the discharge.
Procedures to be followed by the city council or its designee in said show
cause hearing shall be in accordance with section 18-67.3(b) of this article.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-67.5. Same - Immediate Disconnection Of Service.
   (a)   Conditions For Immediate Disconnection Of Service. Any user is subject
to immediate disconnection of service under either of the following conditions:
      (1)   Whenever immediate disconnection is required to halt or prevent any
discharge of pollutants to the POTW which reasonably appears to the city to
present an imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of persons; or
      (2)   Whenever the user's wastewater permit is revoked.
   (b)   Procedures For Immediate Disconnection. Notwithstanding sections 18-
67.2, 18-67.3, or 18-67.4, the city engineer shall have the authority, after
informal notice to the user, to immediately and effectively halt or prevent any
discharge of pollutants to the POTW that reasonably appear to present an
imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. When the city
engineer determines that such an emergency situation exists, he shall issue a
verbal order (followed immediately by a written order) to the user stating the
problem and requiring immediate cessation of the discharge. The city engineer's
actions may include disconnection of wastewater collection service. The city
engineer shall obtain the concurrence of the city attorney before initiating
action. Methods of informal notice shall include, but not be limited to, any of
the following: personal conversation between user and city employees, telephone
calls, letters, hand-delivered messages or notices posted at the user's
premises or point of discharge.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-67.6. Same - Elimination Of Discharge/Reinstatement.
Any user notified of a disconnection of wastewater treatment service under
section 18-67.4 or 18-67.5 and/or revocation of its wastewater discharge permit
shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge. In the event of a failure of
the user to comply voluntarily with the disconnection or revocation order, the
city shall take such steps deemed necessary, including immediate severance of
the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or
danger to any individuals. The city engineer shall reinstate the discharge
permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of
the noncomplying discharge.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-67.7. Same - Injunctive Relief.
   (a)   The city may institute a civil action for an injunction to restrain
violations of this article.
   (b)   The city may, upon discovering an ongoing or potential discharge of
pollutants to the city POTW which reasonably appears to present an imminent
danger to the health or welfare of persons, seek and obtain from the circuit
court of DuPage County a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction
to halt or prohibit such discharge. Prior to the filing of such petition, the
user shall be given informal notice of city intention to file such action.
Methods of informal notice shall include, but not be limited to, any of the
following: personal conversation between discharger and city employees,
telephone calls, letters, hand-delivered messages or notices posted at the
users premises or point of discharge. Personal contact between city personnel
and the discharger shall be attempted, but shall not be condition precedent to
city petitioning for and obtaining a temporary restraining order.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-67.8. Additional Remedies.
   (a)   In addition to remedies available to the city set forth elsewhere in
this article, if the city is fined by the state or USEPA for violation of the
city NPDES permit or violation of water quality standards as the result of a
discharge of pollutants, then the fine, including all city legal, sampling,
analytical testing costs and any other related costs, shall be charged to the
responsible user. Such charge shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any
other remedies the city may have under this article, statutes, regulations, at
law or equity.
   (b)   If the discharge from any user causes a deposit, obstruction, or
damage to any of the city wastewater facilities, the city engineer shall cause
the deposit or obstruction to be promptly removed or cause the damage to be
promptly repaired. The cost for such work, including materials, labor, and
supervision, shall be borne by the user causing such deposit, obstruction, or
damage.
   (c)   The remedies provided in this article shall not be exclusive and the
city may seek whatever other remedies are authorized by statutes, at law or
equity against any person violating the provisions of this article.
   (d)   In addition to any fine levied under sections 18-67.9 and 18-67.10,
the city may, where the circumstances of the particular case so dictate, seek
injunctive relief to prohibit the user from discharging into the sanitary sewer
system or to provide such other affirmative relief as may be appropriate.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-67.9. Penalties And Costs.
Any user who is found to have violated an order of the city or who has failed
to comply with any provision of this article and the orders, rules and
regulations and permits hereunder shall be fined in an amount of not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation in accordance with the
terms and provisions of the Illinois municipal code (Illinois Revised Statutes
chapter 124, section 11-121-1 et seq). For the purpose of this section, each
day in which any such violation shall occur shall be deemed a separate
violation, and a separate violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each
constituent which has limitation listed in this article found to exceed the
limits established in this article during any such day. In addition to the
penalties provided herein, the city may recover reasonable attorney's fees,
court costs, court report fees, and other expenses of litigation by appropriate
suit at law against the user found to have violated this article or the orders,
rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-67.10. Falsification.
Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this article or wastewater discharge
permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this article, shall be subject to
the penalties and costs provided in section 18-67.9 and shall in addition be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or shall be incarcerated in a penal
institution other than the penitentiary for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
days.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-70. Surcharge Rate.
In the event use of the wastewater facilities by nonresidential users is
determined by the city to include wastes in addition to average strength
domestic waste, the user shall pay a surcharge cost in addition to the debt
service charge and the basic user rate.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-70.1. Same - Computation Of Surcharges.
The surcharge per user shall be computed by the following formula:
   S = V(0.0062) [A(BOD5 - 200) + B(TSS - 220) + C(NH3-N)-15]
Where:
S        = Amount of surcharge
V        = Wastewater volume in one hundred-cubic feet billing period
(0.0062) = Unit weight of water x 10-6 per one hundred cubic feet
A        = Unit charge for BOD5 per pound = $0.16 per pound
           Five-day biochemical oxygen demand, mg/l or other oxygen demand if
BOD5     = the superintendent determines that BOD does not accurately reflect
           the characteristics of the waste
200      = Allowable BOD5 strength
B        = Unit charge for TSS per pound = $0.18 per pound
TSS      = Suspended solids, mg/l
220      = Allowable TSS, mg/l
C        = Unit charge per pound of NH3-N = $0.69 per pound 15 mg/l per 100
           gpcd = allowable NH3-N
NH3-N    = Ammonia nitrogen oxygen demand, mg/l
 
The concentration of wastes discharged in excess of average strength wastes
shall be used for computing surcharges and shall be established by sewage flow
or water metered, and waste sampling. Waste sampling and testing by an approved
laboratory shall be completed by the discharger as often as may be deemed
necessary by the director of public works and shall be binding as a basis for
surcharge.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995; Ord. 2997, § 4, 5-20-1996; Ord. 3074, § 6, 6-2-1997;
Ord. 4084, § 3, 4-20-1998; Ord. 4169, § 4, 9-16-1999; Ord. 4284, § 4, 5-23-
2000)
Sec. 18-71. Same - Computation Of Wastewater Service Charge.
The wastewater service charge per user shall be computed by the following
formula:
   W = M + V(D + R + P) + S
Where:
 
W = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period
D = Debt service charge (section 18-69.3)
M = Billing charge (section 18-69.4)
    Wastewater volume on one hundred-cubic feet units per billing period for
V = West Chicago. Village of Winfield in one thousand- gallon units per billing
    period (section 18-69.2)
R = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement (section 18-
    69.5)
S = Amount of surcharge (section 18-70)
P = Pretreatment charge for nonresidential user (section 18-69.1)
 
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-72. Measurement Of Industrial Waste Flow And Strength.
   (a)   Generally. Significant users within ninety (90) days of the date of
notification by the city shall install and maintain at their expense acceptable
water meters or flow metering devices and samplers and manholes as required to
determine waste characteristics discharged to the public waters.
   (b)   Flow Metering Devices. Flow metering devices, installed in monitoring
manholes on service lines, will be required for measurement of the volume of
waste discharged to the sewers when volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
metered water consumption records. This determination shall be made by the
city.
   (c)   Waste Samplers. The industry shall install and maintain waste samplers
and hire an approved laboratory to complete waste testing when directed by the
city. Waste sampling and testing shall be completed by the user as often as may
be deemed necessary by the city. The city shall reserve the right to sample and
test all users at any time and bill the users for all involved costs.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
Sec. 18-74. Access To Records.
The United States environmental protection agency or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of
the city applicable to the city system of user charges for the purpose of
making audit, examinations, excerpts, and transcriptions thereof to ensure
compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any federal
grant.
(Ord. 2895, § 4, 5-1-1995)
(Ord. 2001-4-6, 4-5-2001)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Amendments To Codes
9-1-2-1: International Existing Building Code
9-1-2-2: International Building Code
9-1-2-3: International Mechanical Code
9-1-2-4: International Property Maintenance Code
9-1-2-5: International Residential Code
9-1-2-6: International Fire Code
9-1-2-7: International Energy Conservation Code
9-1-2-8: International Fuel Gas Code
9-1-2-9: National Fire Protection Association Life Safety Code NFPA 101
9-1-2-10: International Swimming Pool And Spa Code
9-1-3: Definitions
9-1-4: Fee Schedule
9-1-5: Transportation Impact Fee Payment Required
9-1-6: Administration And Enforcement
9-1-6-1: Code Enforcement Official
9-1-6-2: Appeals
9-1-6-3: Violations And Penalties
9-1-6-4: Validity
9-1-7: Automatic Fire Suppression Sprinklers For One- And Two- Family Dwellings
And Townhouses
9-1-7-1: Adoption Of Standards For Fire Sprinklers (Rep. by Ord. 2016-12-28,
12-1-2016)
9-1-7-2: Backflow Prevention
9-1-7-3: Hydraulic Calculation Minimum Safety Factor
9-1-7-4: Fire Sprinkler Board Of Appeals (Rep. by Ord. 2019-10-24, 10-17-2019)
9-1-8: Installation Of WaterSense Labeled Fixtures Required
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The following codes, one (1) copy of which codes are on file in the office of
the village clerk for use and examination by the public, are hereby adopted by
reference as though fully set forth in haec verba herein:
   A.   International Existing Building Code, 2024 edition;
   B.   International Building Code, 2024 edition;
   C.   International Mechanical Code, 2024 edition;
   D.   International Property Maintenance Code, 2024 edition;
   E.   International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, 2024
edition;
   F.   National Electrical Code, 2023 edition;
   G.   Illinois Administrative Code title 77; Public Health, chapter I:
Department of Public Health, subchapter - Water and Sewage, part 890 Illinois
Plumbing Code as amended;
   H.   International Fire Code, 2024 edition;
   I.   2021 Illinois Energy Conservation Code (2021 IECC with Illinois
amendments);
   J.   International Fuel Gas Code, 2024 edition;
   K.   Illinois Accessibility Code (Ill. Adm. Code, Title 71, Chapter I,
Subchapter b, part 400);
   L.   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2024 edition; and
   M.   NFPA 101 Life Safety Code 2015 edition.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-10-24, 10-17-2019; Ord. 2024-11-19,
11-21-2024)
9-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODES:
   The following are exceptions and amendments to the codes adopted in section
9-1-1 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016; Ord. 2024-11-19, 11-21-2024)
9-1-2-1: INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
   A.   The following sections are amended as indicated:
      Section 101.1: Insert the name "village of Winfield" as the name of the
jurisdiction. Section 103: Code Compliance Agency is repealed in its entirety
and the following provided in its place:
      Section 103 - Building Code Enforcement Function
         103.1 - Building Code Enforcement Function Established: The function
of the administration of building code is established under the office of the
village manager. Whenever this code refers to code official it is referring to
the village manager or designee.
         103.2 - Appointment: The village manager, subject to the approval of
the president and village board may appoint a chief building official, or enter
into a contract with a professional services firm capable of building code
enforcement.
         103.3 - Deputies: The village manager may designate other qualified
employees, agents or contractors to assist in the enforcement of the building
code, in accordance with hiring or procurement practices of the village.
      Section 105.5 Expiration is repealed in its entirety and replaced with a
new Section 105.5. Expiration which reads as follows:
         Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work on the site
authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or
if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or abandoned for
a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. Building permits
shall expire if permitted work is not completed within eighteen (18) months
after date of permit issuance, except when an extension as provided in this
section is granted.
         The Village Manager or their designee is authorized to grant, an
extension upon written request from the permit holder. The written request
shall demonstrate the justifiable cause for the requested extension.
Justifiable causes may include delays due to weather, labor strikes, supply
shortages, or similar reasons. Such extension may be granted for a period not
to exceed 180 days. Request for each extension may require a fee to cover the
costs of administration and additional inspections but shall not be greater
than 25 percent of the original building permit fee. Not more than two
extensions may be granted by the Village Manager or their designee.
      Section 1305.2: Add to the end of this section:
         When the performance compliance method is used to evaluate a building,
all local amendments shall be applicable regardless to the results of the
evaluation.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-10-24, 10-17-2019; Ord. 2019-08-21,
8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-11-19, 11-21-2024)
9-1-2-2: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
   A.   The following sections are amended as indicated:
      Section 101.1: Insert the name "village of Winfield" as the name of the
jurisdiction. Section 103: Code Compliance Agency is repealed in its entirety
and the following provided in its place:
      Section 103 - Building Code Enforcement Function
         103.1 - Building Code Enforcement Function Established: The function
of the administration of building code is established under the office of the
village manager. Whenever this code refers to code official it is referring to
the village manager or designee.
         103.2 - Appointment: The village manager, subject to the approval of
the president and village board may appoint a chief building official, or enter
into a contract with a professional services firm capable of building code
enforcement.
         103.3 - Deputies: The village manager may designate other qualified
employees, agents or contractors to assist in the enforcement of the building
code, in accordance with hiring or procurement practices of the village.
         Section 105.2: Work Exempt from Permit.
         Building:
            Delete 2. - Fences, other than swimming pool barriers, not over 7
feet (2134 mm) high.
         Section 105.5 Expiration is repealed in its entirety and replaced with
a new Section 105.5
      Expiration which reads as follows:
         Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work on the site
authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or
if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or abandoned for
a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. Building permits
shall expire if permitted work is not completed within eighteen (18) months
after date of permit issuance, except when an extension as provided in this
section is granted.
         The Village Manager or their designee is authorized to grant, an
extension upon written request from the permit holder. The written request
shall demonstrate the justifiable cause for the requested extension.
Justifiable causes may include delays due to weather, labor strikes, supply
shortages, or similar reasons. Such extension may be granted for a period not
to exceed 180 days. Request for each extension may require a fee to cover the
costs of administration and additional inspections but shall not be greater
than 25 percent of the original building permit fee. Not more than two
extensions may be granted by the Village Manager or their designee.
      Add Section 901.6.4 - All sprinkler and fire alarm systems shall be
monitored per Chapter 9 of this Title.
      903.2- Delete the sections 903.2 - 903.2.10 and insert the following:
         All use groups shall have an automatic fire sprinkler system.
         Exception: If all the following are met, fire sprinklers will not be
required:
         1.   Building area less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet;
         2.   Building is not used for sleeping;
         3.   Building has less than the Maximum Allowable Quantity for
hazardous or flammable materials;
         4.   Building has no areas below grade or above the first floor;
         5.   Building is not continuously occupied during normal business
hours; or
         6.   Building is more than thirty (30) feet from the principle
building.
      Section 905.3.7 Add the following:
         Horizontal standpipe systems shall be provided within buildings where
any part of the building interior is over one hundred fifty (150) feet from a
point where motorized fire apparatus may stop during emergency fire operations.
         Interior hose lines may be eliminated in buildings three (3) or less
stories in height at the discretion of the local fire department.
      Add 907.2.14 - All building except one- and two-family dwellings and
townhouses shall be equipped with an automatic fire alarm system with smoke
detection.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-10-24, 10-17-2019; Ord. 2019-08-21,
8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-11-19, 11-21-2024)
9-1-2-3: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
   A.   The following sections are amended as indicated:
      Section 101.1: Insert the name Village of Winfield as the name of the
jurisdiction.
      Section 108.6: The code official shall authorize the refunding of fees as
follows.
         1.   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder which was erroneously
paid or collected.
         2.   Not more than 95 percent of the permit fee paid where work has
not been done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
         3.   Not more than 95 percent of the plan review fee paid where an
application for a permit for which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn
or canceled before any plan review effort has been expended.
         The code official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid,
except upon written application filed by the original permittee not later than
180 days after the date of fee payment.
      Section 114.4: Insert the words "misdemeanor", "$750" and "six months"
sequentially as required.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-11-19, 11-21-2024)
9-1-2-4: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
   A.   The following sections are amended as indicated:
      Section 101.1 - Title: Insert the name village of Winfield as the name of
the jurisdiction.
      Section 103: Code Compliance Agency is repealed in its entirety and the
following provided in its place:
      Section 103 - Building Code Enforcement Function
         103.1 - Building Code Enforcement Function Established: The function
of the administration of building code is established under the office of the
village manager. Whenever this code refers to code official it is referring to
the village manager or designee.
         103.2 - Appointment: The village manager, subject to the approval of
the president and village board may appoint a chief building official, or enter
into a contract with a professional services firm capable of building code
enforcement.
         103.3 - Deputies: The village manager may designate other qualified
employees, agents or contractors to assist in the enforcement of the building
code, in accordance with hiring or procurement practices of the village.
      Section 105.1 - General: The code official shall enforce the provisions
of this code. Whenever this code refers to code official it is referring to the
village manager or designee.
      Section 202 - General Definitions: INOPERABLE VEHICLE: to read: See
section 6-5-1, "Definitions" of the Winfield Village Code.
      Section 302.4 - Weeds: All premises and exterior property shall be
maintained free from weeds or plant growth in excess of eight (8) inches. All
noxious weeds, including jimson (Datura stramonium); burdock (Arctium minus);
giant ragweed (Ambrosia trifida); common ragweed (Ambrosia artemisiifolia);
Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense); perennial sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis); musk
thistle (Carduus nutans); Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense); sorgum almum
(Sorghum x almum parodi) and other crosses with rhizomes; cocklebur (Xanthium
strumarium); invasive exotic species such as wild garlic (Allium vineale); wild
mustard (Brassica kaber); purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria); and other
like vegetation shall be prohibited.
      Section 304.14 - Insect Screens: Insert the dates of April 1 to October
31.
      Section 602.3 - Heat Supply: Insert the dates of September 1 to May 31.
      Section 602.4 - Occupiable Work Space: Insert the dates of September 1 to
May 31.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2017-08-14, 8-3-2017; Ord. 2024-11-19,
11-21-2024)
9-1-2-5: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO- FAMILY DWELLINGS:
   A.   The following sections are amended as indicated:
      Section R101.1: Insert the name Village of Winfield as the name of the
jurisdiction.
      Section R103: Code Compliance Agency is repealed in its entirety and the
following provided in its place:
      Section R103 - Building Code Enforcement Function
      R103.1 - Building Code Enforcement Function Established: The function of
the administration of building code is established under the office of the
village manager. Whenever this code refers to code official it is referring to
the village manager or designee.
      R103.2 - Appointment: The village manager, subject to the approval of the
president and village board may appoint a chief building official, or enter
into a contract with a professional services firm capable of building code
enforcement.
      R103.3 - Deputies: The village manager may designate other qualified
employees, agents or contractors to assist in the enforcement of the building
code, in accordance with hiring or procurement practices of the village.
      Section R105.2: Work Exempt from Permit.
         Building: Delete 2. - Fences, other than swimming pool barriers, not
over 7 feet (2134 mm) high.
         Amend 5. to delete "and driveways".
      Section R105.5 Expiration is repealed in its entirety and replaced with a
new Section R105.5. Expiration which reads as follows:
      Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work on the site
authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or
if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or abandoned for
a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. Building permits
shall expire if permitted work is not completed within eighteen (18) months
after date of permit issuance, except when an extension as provided in this
section is granted.
      The Village Manager or their designee is authorized to grant, an
extension upon written request from the permit holder. The written request
shall demonstrate the justifiable cause for the requested extension.
Justifiable causes may include delays due to weather, labor strikes, supply
shortages, or similar reasons. Such extension may be granted for a period not
to exceed 180 days. Request for each extension may require a fee to cover the
costs of administration and additional inspections but shall not be greater
than 25 percent of the original building pennit fee. Not more than two
extensions may be granted by the Village Manager or their designee.
 
R301.2(1): Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
Ground Snow            Seismic  Subject To Damage From            Winter Design
Load        Wind Speed Design   Weathering Frost Line Termite     Temp
                       Category            Depth
25          90/76      B        Severe     42"        Moderate to -4F
            (3 sec)                                   heavy
 
 
Ice Barrier  Flood Hazards           Air Freezing Index Mean Annual Temp.
Underlayment
Yes          See title 12 of village 1700               48F
             code
 
   Section R309.2: One-And Two-Family Dwellings Automatic Fire Systems, add at
the end of the first sentence:
   Optional Plan: Contractors building new one- and two-family dwellings under
a contract with the expected future occupant owner shall provide to the same a
plan and cost estimate for the supply and installation of an automatic fire
sprinkler system for their consideration. The village shall be provided
evidence of the development of the plans and either acceptance or rejection at
the time of submittal of drawings for a building permit.
   Section R2603.5.1: Delete.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-08-21, 8-15-2019; Ord. 2024-11-19,
11-21-2024)
9-1-2-6: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
   A.   The following sections are amended as indicated:
      Section 101.1 - Title: Insert the name Village of Winfield as the name of
the jurisdiction.
      Add Section 101.6 of the following Use Permits:
         1.   All buildings except one-and two-family dwellings and town/row
housing are required to have a Certificate of Occupancy issued by the Building
Official verifying that it meets the requirements of the Fire Code.
         2.   No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued unless the building
is in conformance with the requirements of the Fire Code.
         3.   The Certificate of Occupancy shall be required for all existing
buildings in accordance with paragraph 1 above.
         4.   A Certificate of Occupancy shall be required for buildings which
change use, and special hazards controlled by this Code, added to or remodeled
or altered.
         5.   The Certificate of Occupancy shall expire annually from the date
of issuance and may be renewed if buildings are maintained in conformance with
this Ordinance.
         6.   Where Special Permits are required, application shall be made to
the Fire and Building Code Official. He/she shall determine criteria,
limitations and duration of Permits and shall not issue Special Permits until
the appropriate requirements are met.
      Section 103: Code Compliance Agency is repealed in its entirety and the
following provided in its place:
      Section 103 - Fire Code Enforcement Function
         103.1 - Fire Code Enforcement Function Established: The function of
the administration of fire code is established under the office of the village
manager. Whenever this code refers to fire code official it is referring to the
village manager or designee.
         103.2 - Appointment: The village manager, subject to the approval of
the president and village board may appoint a chief building official, or enter
into a contract with a professional services firm capable of building code
enforcement.
         103.3 - Deputies: The village manager may designate other qualified
employees, agents or contractors to assist in the enforcement of the fire code,
in accordance with hiring or procurement practices of the village.
      Add the following:
         104.11.4 - Emergency conditions: When in the opinion of the Fire Code
Official and the Building Code Official, there is actual and immediate danger
because of hazardous conditions which endanger life of may cause adverse
effects upon adjoining properties, the Building Department may order the
building to be immediately vacated and cause immediate remedial action if
necessary. The cost of such remedial action shall be borne by the owner of the
premises.
      Add the following:
         108.4: Whenever the Fire Code Official and the Building Code Official
shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or
when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply or that the
true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly
interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision per Section 9-1-6-2 of
this Title.
      Amend section 109.0- Violations Penalties: To read:
         See section 9-1-6-3, "Violations and Penalties", of the village code.
      Add the following:
         Section 507.5.7 Add the following: Water main system: All buildings or
structures over 10.000 square feet or a High Hazard Occupancy will require the
water main to be looped around the building. The complete installation shall
comply with all other Village of Winfield requirements.
      903.2 Delete the following sections 903.2 - 903.2.10 and insert the
following:
         All use groups shall have an automatic fire sprinkler system.
         Exception: If all the following are met, fire sprinklers will not be
required:
         1.   Building area less than 1,500 square feet;
         2.   Building is not used for sleeping;
         3.   Building has less than the Maximum Allowable Quantity for
hazardous or flammable materials;
         4.   Building has no areas below grade or above the first floor;
         5.   Building is not continuously occupied during normal business
hours;
         6.   Building is more than 30 feet from the principle building;
      Section 903.4.2 and 907.6.5.3 Monitoring:
         Add the following: All sprinkler and fire alarm systems shall be
monitored per Chapter 9 of this Title.
      Section 905.3.8 Add the following:
         Horizontal standpipe systems shall be provided within buildings where
any part of the building interior is over one hundred fifty (150) feet from a
point where motorized fire apparatus may stop during emergency fire operations.
         Interior hose lines may be eliminated in buildings three (3) or less
stories in height at the discretion of the local fire department.
      907.2.14 Add the following:
         All building except one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses shall
be equipped with an automatic fire alarm system with smoke detection.
      1008.3.5 Insert the following:
         Required stairways, hallways, and other means of egress including
exterior open spaces to or through which exit ways lead shall be adequately
lighted at all times that the building served thereby is occupied. Power
supplied shall be from and approved, unfailing, reliable source separate from
that providing normal power supplies to the building.
      1013.1 Add the following:
         a.   In rooms accommodating more than 50 persons required exit
doorways shall be plainly marked by approved exit signs sufficiently
illuminated when the floor area is occupied, to be readily distinguished.
         b.   Where exit doorways are not visible from all locations,
illuminated directional signs as required by the Bureau of Fire Prevention,
shall be placed on walls or otherwise displayed. in conspicuous locations to
direct occupants to exit doorways.
      Amend section 111.4 - Failure to Comply: To read:
         Any person who shall continue any work on the system after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition shall be subject to penalties
and fines found in section 9-1-6-3, “Violations and Penalties”, of the village
code.
      5001.6.4 Add the following:
         Transportation of hazardous materials: The route used to transport
hazardous materials explosives through the municipality shall be approved by
the Fire Chief.
      5601.1 Add the following sentence:
         The storage of explosives or blasting agents is not allowed within the
corporate limits without a special permit.
      5601.1.6 Transportation of explosives: Add the following:
         The route used to transport explosives through the municipality shall
be approved by the Fire Chief.
      5701.1 Add the following sentence:
         The storage of flammable liquids above ground is not allowed within
the corporate limits without a special permit.
      5704.2.9.6.1. 5706.2.4.4 5806.2 and 5806.2 Not allowed without a special
use permit.
         Adopt appendices B and C.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-10-24, 10-17-2019; Ord. 2024-11-19,
11-21-2024)
9-1-2-7: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
   A.    The following sections are amended as indicated:
      Section 101.1 - Title: Insert the name village of Winfield as the name of
the jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
9-1-2-8: INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
   A.   The following sections are amended as indicated:
      Section 101.1 - Title: Insert the name village of Winfield as the name of
the jurisdiction.
      Amend Section 113.4 - Violation Penalties: See section
9-1-6-3, "Violations And Penalties", of the village code.
      Add Section 114.5:
         Any person who shall continue any work on the system after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition shall be subject to penalties
and fines found in section
9-1-6-3. "Violations And Penalties", of the village code.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-11-19, 11-21-2024)
9-1-2-10: INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
   A.   Sections 321 is amended as follows:
      Delete section 321.1 in its entirety and replace it with the following:
      Water discharged from swimming pools shall be directed to the public
street through the use of a discharge hose unless such discharge can occur
directly into a storm sewer structure located in rear yards by the use of a
continuous discharge hose from the swimming pool to the storm sewer structure.
Any encroachment of adjacent property by the discharge hose must first have the
approval of the appropriate homeowner(s). At no time, shall water discharged
from a swimming pool be permitted to encroach upon any adjacent property and in
no case shall the overland discharge of swimming pool water be permitted unless
such overland flow can be confined to the property upon which the swimming pool
is located.
      Water discharged from swimming pools shall not create hazards to either
pedestrians using the public sidewalk or vehicles using the public street.
Water shall not be discharged during periods of rain or storms and at no time
shall the discharge rate exceed a flow of 200 gallons per minute.
(Ord. 2022-12-14, 12-15-2022; amd. Ord. 2024-11-19, 11-21-2024)
9-1-2-9: NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION LIFE SAFETY CODE NFPA 101:
   A.   The following sections are amended as indicated:
   Delete all Chapters based on existing buildings. (Ord. 2019-10-24, 10-17-
2019)
9-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
   A.    Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the Building Code, it
shall be held to mean the Village of Winfield.
   B.    Wherever the term "corporate counsel" is used in the Building Code, it
shall be held to mean the attorney for the Village of Winfield.
   C.    This subsection amends section 202, Definitions, of the international
property maintenance code:
Rubbish. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, excelsior;
and other combustible materials, ashes and dust. It further includes
accumulations of rags; cartons, cardboard; magazines; newspapers; boxes; wood,
except for stacked firewood; scrap building materials including wires, drywall,
pipes; scrap plastic; rubber; tires; leather; tree branches; yard trimmings,
except in case of a properly constructed pile for the composting of said yard
trimmings; tin; composite or aluminum cans; scrap metals; broken glass; broken
crockery; wooden pallets, automobile and other motor parts; and construction
trailers that are used to store any of the above.
(Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
9-1-4:   FEE SCHEDULE:
Building Size Building Review 25% of Building Fee 50% of Building Fee
Building Size       Building Review   25% of Building Fee  50% of Building Fee
Up to 60,000 Cubic  $375.00           $110.00*             $187.50
ft.
60,001 to 80,000    $460.00           $115.00              $230.00
Cubic ft.
80,001 to 100,000   $590.00           $147.50              $295.00
Cubic ft.
100,001 to 150,000  $680.00           $170.00              $340.00
Cubic ft.
150,001 to 200,000  $770.00           $192.50              $385.00
Cubic ft.
Over 200,000 Cubic  $900.00 + $8.50   $225.00 + $2.13 (per $450.00 + $4.25 (per
ft.                 (per 10,000 Cu.   10,000 Cu. ft.)      10,000 Cu. ft.)
                    ft.)
Footing and foundation                25% of building review (Min. $310.00)
NFPA 101 Plan Review                  25% of building review (Min. $310.00)
Mechanical review                     25% of building review*
Plumbing review                       25% of building review*
Accessibility review (not included in 25% of building review*
building review)
Electrical review                     50% of building review*
Med gas                               50% of building review*
Fire code                             50% of building review (Min. $210.00)
Energy code                           50% of building review (Min. $210.00)
Commercial/industrial zoning          $250.00 per 20,000 square feet of site
                                      area
Hood and duct plan review             $260.00 per system
(Type 1 w/o suppression)
Hood and duct plan review (Type 2)    $215.00 per system
Spray booth plan review               $400.00 per booth
Hourly plan review (specialty and     $160.00 per hour
revisions)
Technical submittal $125.00
review
In-ground pool plan $470.00 per pool
review
Express plan review x 2.5 of base plan review
HPM, High Hazard,   x 1.5 of base plan review
Processing Piping
Medical case
facilities          x 2 of building plan review
(hospitals and
ambulatory care)
Solar (PV) systems  $1,200.00 minimum
(up to 200 kw DC)
Miscellaneous Plan  $55.00 per discipline
Review
*   $110.00 minimum tor each discipline when multiple disciplines are submitted
at the same time.
**   Minimum includes up to 50,000 sq. ft. footprint, for every addition 50,000
sq. ft. is an additional $50.00 (this shall not be interpolated) and multi-
story buildings as defined by the IBC shall have an additional 20% added.
 
RESIDENTIAL
One And Two Single Family Dwellings
RESIDENTIAL
One And Two Single Family Dwellings
Up to 3,200 square feet (including basement)    $700.00 per dwelling unit
Up to 3,200 square feet (including basement and $800.00 per dwelling unit
zoning)
Up to 3,200 square feet (including basement)    $0.23 per square foot
Up to 3,200 square feet (including basement and $0.24 per square foot
zoning)
Miscellaneous Plan Review                       Per discipline**
In-Ground Pool Plan Review                      $470.00 per pool
Priority Express Plan Review                    x 2.5 of base plan review
Solar (Photovoltaic) Systems                    $265.00 ($150.00 for Revisions)
**   Misc. Reviews that comply on the first review are at a rate of $30.00 per
discipline and reviews that do not comply on the first review face a rate of
$50.00 per discipline. This higher charge is to capture the additional time and
expense of re-reviews.
 
FIRE PROTECTION
Fire Suppression Systems (Includes fire pump, hose stations and standpipes)
FIRE PROTECTION
Fire Suppression Systems (Includes fire pump, hose stations and standpipes)
1 to 100 sprinkler heads                 $475.00
101 to 200 sprinkler heads               $625.00
201 to 300 sprinkler heads               $725.00
301 to 500 sprinkler heads               $925.00
Over 500 sprinkler heads                 $1,000.00 + $1.00 each up to 20k, then
                                         $0.75
Modifications (40 or fewer sprinkler     $215.00
heads without calculation)
Residential systems (NFPA 13D)           $260.00
Fire Alarm Systems                       $0.017 per sq. ft. ($250 min.)
Fire Alarm system Modification (existing
system alterations 5,000 sq. ft. or      $200.00
less)
Hood Suppression with 15 or less points  $215.00 per system
Hood Suppression with 16 - 29 flow       $270.00 per system
points
Hood Suppression with 30 flow points or  $320.00 per system
more
Chemical suppression systems (excluding  $375.00 plus alarm fees
hood suppression)
Carbon Dioxide/Clean Agents              $200.00 for up to 105 pounds of agent,
                                         $1.00 each
Dedicated Fire Hydrant or Standpipe      $25.00 per valve ($300.00 minimum)
System
Emergency Radio Communication Coverage   $0.005 per sq. ft. ($600.00 minimum)
(ERCC)
 
INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE
INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE
Commercial
New and Existing, based on square footage
Building   $0.15 per square foot
Mechanical $0.05 per square foot
Electrical $0.05 per square foot
Plumbing   $0.05 per square foot
Energy     $0.03 per square foot
Minimum fees apply
Special systems are an additional charge.
RESIDENTIAL
New Construction, Remodels and Additions One and Two Single Family Dwellings
RESIDENTIAL
New Construction, Remodels and Additions One and Two Single Family Dwellings
Up to 3,200 square feet (including basement) $700.00 per dwelling unit*
Over 3,200 square feet                       $0.22 per square foot*
*   Minimum rates for remodels and additions plan reviews apply
   Hourly and per inspection rates available.
FIRE PROTECTION
Sprinkler
Underground rough (piping)                   $300.00
Underground hydrostatic                      $300.00
Underground flush                            $300.00
Any two underground inspections at the same  $450.00
time
All three underground inspections at the     $600.00
same time
Sprinkler modification rough (20 or fewer    $300.00
heads)
Hydrostatic test per riser per floor         $325.00
Fire pump test                               $225.00
Final sprinkler inspection/test              $275.00
Single family (includes rough and final)     $275.00
Single family re-inspection                  $150.00
Unless otherwise noted, failed re-inspections are at the same rates noted
above.
Fire Alarm                                    
Rough                                        $250.00
The following fees are based on the number of initiating devices. Initiating
devices include smoke and heat detectors, pull stations, duct detectors,
monitoring devices, flow switch, tamper switches and special detection devices.
Fire alarm test (final inspection)            
1- 20 devices                                $275.00
21-49                                        $450.00
50-99                                        $750.00
100 and over                                 $800.00 + $4.00 per device over 99
Reinspections/tests are based on the number of devices being tested
Special Suppression (Dry Chemical, Clean Agent, etc.)
Rough**                                      $300.00
Final**                                      $250.00
Hood suppression system                      $200.00
**   Additional Fire Alarm fees maybe applicable
 
(Ord. 2018-04-06, 4-5-2018; amd. Ord. 2018-05-11, 5-3-2018; Ord. 2021-06-11, 6-
3-2021; Ord. 2024-05-08, 5-16-2024)
9-1-5: TRANSPORTATION IMPACT FEE PAYMENT REQUIRED:
A. No permit shall be authorized for constructing, enlarging or altering any
building or structure until the Village has received a copy of a receipt of
payment of the fee or fees imposed by the DuPage County fair share
transportation impact fee ordinance.
B. No occupancy permit shall be authorized until the Village has received a
copy of a receipt of payment of the fee or fees imposed by the DuPage County
fair share transportation impact fee ordinance. (Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
9-1-6: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
9-1-6-1: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
   A.    Office Established: The position of Code enforcement official is
hereby created, and shall be substituted for the term "building official" or
other similar terms wherever those terms appear in the documents incorporated
herein by reference.
Note: All references to building inspector or Building Commissioner should be
changed to "Code enforcement official". (1994 Code)
   B.    Duties:
      1.    Generally: The Code enforcement official shall:
         a.    Devote all the time necessary to perform fully the duties of his
office.
         b.    Receive applications required by this Code and furnish the
prescribed certificates.
         c.    Examine premises for which permits have been issued and make
necessary inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied with and
that construction is prosecuted safely.
         d.    Enforce all provisions of the Building Code.
         e.    When requested by proper authority, or when the public interest
so requires, make investigations in connection with matters referred to in the
Building Code and render written reports on the same.
         f.    To enforce compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe
conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during construction, or to
require adequate exit facilities in buildings and structures, he shall issue
such notices or orders as may be necessary.
      2.    Inspections: Inspections required under the provisions of the
Building Code shall be made by the Code enforcement official or his duly
appointed assistant. The Code enforcement official may accept reports of
inspectors of recognized inspection services after investigation of their
qualifications and reliability. No certificate called for by any provision of
the Building Code shall be issued on such reports unless the same are in
writing and certified to by a responsible officer of such service.
      3.    Records Kept: The Code enforcement official shall keep
comprehensive records of applications, of certificates issued, of inspections
made, of reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued. He shall retain on
file in the Office of the Village Clerk copies of required plans and all
documents relating to building work so long as any part of the building or
structure to which they relate may be in existence.
All such records shall be open to public inspection for good and sufficient
reasons at the stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the Office of
the Village Clerk without written consent of the Village Clerk.
   C.    Entry Powers: The building inspector, in the discharge of his official
duties and upon proper identification, shall have the authority to enter any
building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
   D.    Acting Building Inspector: During temporary absence or disability of
the building inspector, the building inspector shall designate an acting
building inspector, with the approval of the Village President. (Ord. 569, 6-
12-1980)
9-1-6-2: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved may take an appeal to the Village Board of Trustees from
any decision of the Code enforcement official. An appeal may be taken within
thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed by filing with the Code
enforcement official and with the Board of Trustees a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof; except, that in the case of a building or
structure which in the opinion of the Code enforcement official is unsafe or
dangerous, the Code enforcement official may, in his order, limit the time for
such an appeal to a shorter period. The Code enforcement official shall
forthwith transmit to the Board of Trustees all papers upon which the action
appealed from was taken. (Ord. 569, 6-12-1980; amd. 1994 Code)
9-1-6-3: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.    Swimming Pool Violations Declared A Nuisance: Any swimming pool in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and dangerous to the public health and safety. (Ord. 569, 6-12-1980;
amd. 1994 Code)
   B.   Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter,
including those parts herein adopted by reference, by failing, neglecting or
refusing to comply with the provisions hereof or who resists the enforcement of
any of the provisions hereof or who refuses to remedy a violation hereof shall
be fined as provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code for each offense, and each day said violation continues
shall be a separate offense. In the event any of the documents herein
incorporated by reference contain their own provisions for fines or penalties
or both, those provisions shall be controlling as to those sections to which
they apply. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
9-1-6-4: VALIDITY:
The invalidity of any section or provision of this chapter or of the Building
Codes hereby adopted shall not invalidate other sections or provisions thereof.
(Ord. 569, 6-12-1980)
9-1-7: AUTOMATIC FIRE SUPPRESSION SPRINKLERS FOR ONE- AND TWO- FAMILY DWELLINGS
AND TOWNHOUSES:
9-1-7-1: ADOPTION OF STANDARDS FOR FIRE SPRINKLERS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
9-1-7-2: BACKFLOW PREVENTION:
Under the circumstances where an automatic fire sprinkler system is installed
with a separate water main connection from the one serving the main structure,
it shall be equipped with a backflow prevention device in accordance with the
Village Code and, where required, shall be annually inspected in accordance
with the provisions of 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890 (State of Illinois
Plumbing Code), section 890.1130. Said backflow prevention devices shall be UL
listed, FM approved, and/or ASSE listed for use with fire sprinkler systems.
(Ord. 2008-8-39, 8-7-2008)
9-1-7-3: HYDRAULIC CALCULATION MINIMUM SAFETY FACTOR:
For purposes of design calculations, a minimum ten (10) psi safety factor shall
be incorporated into all hydraulic calculations associated with each new and/or
modified fire sprinkler system. Said safety factor shall be added after all
other hydraulic calculations have been completed to the point where the
underground service line directly connects to the Village water main system.
(Ord. 2008-8-39, 8-7-2008)
9-1-7-4: FIRE SPRINKLER BOARD OF APPEALS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2019-10-24, 10-17-2019)
9-1-8: INSTALLATION OF WATERSENSE LABELED FIXTURES REQUIRED:
Pursuant to 17 Ill. Admin. Code 3730.307(c)(4) and subject to the Illinois
Plumbing Code (771 Ill. Admin. Code 890) and the Lawn Irrigation Contractor and
Lawn Sprinkler System Registration Code (77 Ill. Admin. Code 892), all new
plumbing fixtures and irrigation controllers installed after the effective date
of this section shall bear the WaterSense label (as designated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency WaterSense Program), when such labeled fixtures
are available. (Ord. 2017-03-03, 3-16-2017)
ARTICLE A. GRADING REQUIREMENTS 1
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Definitions
9-1A-2: Grading Permit
9-1A-3: Issuance Of Building Permit
9-1A-4: Grading Plans
9-1A-5: Stormwater Management Facilities
9-1A-6: Easements
9-1A-7: Grading Requirements
9-1A-8: Protective Ground Cover
9-1A-9: Occupancy Survey And Permits
9-1A-10: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 12 of this code for flood control regulations.
9-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BUILDING SPOT SURVEY: A topographical elevation survey showing in detail the
top of the foundation wall, the elevation of all openings in the foundation
wall, and the building location relative to the lot lines, and shall show the
direction of the drainage flow. The aforementioned survey shall be conducted
immediately after the foundation has been poured and backfilled and certified
by a registered land surveyor. This "building spot survey" shall be provided by
the permittee to the village at the permittee's expense. The survey shall be
submitted to a scale no smaller than one inch equals thirty feet (1" = 30').
CRITICAL PARCEL: Parcels on which the grading is critical to drainage on
adjacent property and those parcels containing or adjacent to a stormwater
overflow route or those parcels containing or adjacent to an intermittent
stormwater flow route.
ELEVATION: The elevation of structures, the earth, or other items with respect
to established benchmarks in terms of USGS datum.
FINAL GRADING: The vertical location of the pavement or landscaped material
surfaces after all grading work is completed in accordance with the grading
plans. "Fine grading" will be defined as the process of grading a parcel to the
finished grades proposed on the grading plan.
FLOODING: A general or temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland waters, or the unusual and
rapid accumulation of runoff from surface waters from any source.
FOUNDATION OPENING ELEVATION: The lowest unprotected opening in a structure.
GRADING: The excavation of, the filling of, or any combination thereof of any
parcel and shall include the operations and conditions resulting from and
necessary because of any excavation or filling of any parcel.
GRADING PLAN: The depiction of any manmade change to improved or unimproved
real estate. It shall also be held to mean the depiction of any manmade change,
including, but not limited to, the damming, obstructing, changing or altering
of any natural drainage course or natural drainageway.
GROUND COVER: Any manmade or natural landscaping material, functional or
ornamental, including, but not limited to, such material as stone, grass or
shrubbery used to protect topsoil or soil from eroding.
OCCUPANCY SURVEY: A topographical survey prepared and certified by a registered
land surveyor or registered professional engineer indicating elevation contours
on a given parcel. The elevation contours shall be a minimum of one foot (1')
and in sufficient detail to adequately determine the proper final grading of a
parcel as determined by the village engineer. This "occupancy survey" shall be
provided by the permittee to the village at the permittee's expense.
PARCEL: A lot, a portion of a lot, land site, or any portion of real estate not
publicly owned.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a grading permit is issued.
ROUGH GRADING: The excavation on, the filling of, or any combination thereof
with respect to a parcel to a two inch plus or minus (±2") variance from the
final grading requirement less an appropriate allowance for topsoil as
specified in the approved plans and specifications.
STANDARD PARCELS: Parcels of land on which the drainage runoff from the front
yards will drain to the street and the drainage runoff from the rear yards to a
stormwater facility. Drainage runoff from the side yards shall drain from the
property in question to the front yard or to the rear yard without draining
onto adjacent property.
STORMWATER FACILITIES: Includes, but is not limited to, such items as paved
gutters, surface inlets to subsurface storm drains, formed drainage swales,
riprap lined channels, catch basins or manholes that connect into a subsurface
drainage system, storm sewer and stormwater detention or retention facilities
with all to be located within a dedicated easement for stormwater drainage or
within publicly owned property.
STRUCTURE: A combination of materials used to form a construction that is safe
and stable including, but not limited to, buildings, stadiums, reviewing
stands, platforms, stagings, radio towers, bridges, trestles, sheds, shelters,
fences and display signs. The term "structure" shall be construed as if
followed by the words "or part thereof".
WATERCOURSE OR WATERWAY: A natural path in a lower area of the land that
carries natural stormwater runoff from areas of higher elevation. (Ord. 692, 7-
18-1985)
9-1A-2: GRADING PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No structure shall be erected, moved or substantially
improved or parcel of land filled or excavated within the village without first
obtaining a grading permit. A grading permit will be required and shall
necessitate the submission of grading plans. The grading plans must be approved
by the village and a grading permit issued by the village before the following
activities can commence:
      1.   Construction of a new structure in a subdivision or planned unit
development where an overall grading plan has been approved by the corporate
authorities or a parcel is subject to said overall grading plan.
      2.   Construction of a new structure in an established subdivision or
planned unit development that does not have an approved overall grading plan.
      3.   Structure being moved where a parcel is affected by a structure
being moved, including the parcels from which the structure is moved and the
parcel to which it is being moved.
      4.   Parcel filled or excavated and all parcels affected by fill or
excavation or grading that will have an effect on other parcels.
      5.   The damming, altering, obstructing or the changing of natural
terrain or a waterway or watercourse carrying natural drainage from upstream
property.
      6.   Any change to an existing structure or an addition or alteration to
an existing structure that could affect stormwater drainage to the parcel being
improved or to the adjoining property. (Ord. 692, 7-18-1985)
   B.   Review And Inspection Fees: It is the obligation of the applicant
filing any application as herein described to pay all administrative and
professional consulting fees incurred by the village in processing and acting
upon such application. The deposit for those fees and expenses as hereinafter
set forth is intended to ensure to the village that adequate funds will be
available to the village to pay those fees and expenses, but the deposit
required is based upon an estimate only of what those fees may be and by making
the deposit the applicant is not relieved of the obligation to pay those fees
in full if in fact those fees and expenses exceed the deposit amount.
      1.   Single-Family Parcels:
         a.   Standard Parcels: The deposit for a grading permit for standard
parcels shall be eight hundred dollars ($800.00) and a ten percent (10%)
administrative fee for handling. All costs for providing grading plans, grading
surveys or any other material required to be furnished by this article shall be
underwritten by the permittee at permittee's expense.
         b.   Critical Parcels: The deposit for a grading permit for critical
parcels shall be one thousand six hundred dollars ($1,600.00) and a ten percent
(10%) administrative fee for handling. All costs for providing grading plans,
grading surveys or any other material required to be furnished by this article
shall be underwritten by the permittee at the permittee's sole expense.
      2.   Other Than Single-Family Parcels: For all parcels other than single-
family parcels, the deposit for a grading permit shall be one thousand six
hundred dollars ($1,600.00) and a ten percent (10%) administrative fee for
handling costs for all services rendered by the village's consultants
pertaining to the parcel for which an application for a grading permit and the
issuance of a grading permit is being considered. The costs for consultants'
services shall include, but not be limited to, the costs for the providing of
services by the engineer for the village, planner for the village or other
consultants for the review of the material required by this article as well as
on site construction observation as well as any other services deemed necessary
by the village. All costs incurred by the village resulting from the rendering
of services by village consultants in relationship to this article shall be
paid for by permittee. (Ord. 2006-9-41, 9-7-2006)
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: The code enforcement official will be responsible
for issuance of all grading permits and shall be responsible for the
administration of this article. (Ord. 692, 7-18-1985; amd. 1994 Code)
   D.   Expiration Of Permit; Special Grading Permit:
      1.   Every grading permit shall expire by limitation and shall become
null and void if the work authorized by such permit has not begun within ninety
(90) days from the date of issuance therefor. In the case of such expiration
and cancellation, the code enforcement official shall provide written notice
thereof to the permittee.
      2.   If the work described in the grading permit has not been
substantially completed within one year of the date of issuance thereof, said
permit shall be expired and be canceled by the code enforcement official and
written notice thereof shall be given to the permittee together with a notice
that further work is prohibited; and no work shall proceed on the canceled
permit until a special grading permit has been issued by the village.
At the discretion of the code enforcement official, such special grading permit
may be issued based on the original application and permit, or the code
enforcement official may require submission of a new application. The special
grading permit may include limitations on time allowed for substantial
completion of the work. All special grading permits shall be accompanied by a
reasonable performance bond in an amount and form satisfactory to the village.
Said performance bond shall provide surety for the completion of the
improvements covered by the permit within the time limit set by the code
enforcement official.
   E.   Exemptions From Permit Requirements: A grading permit may not be
required on certain improvements under the following classifications: change to
an existing structure, an addition or alteration to an existing structure,
which changes, additions or alterations do not affect stormwater drainage to
the parcel in question, or do not affect stormwater drainage to adjoining
property as determined by the code enforcement official. (Ord. 692, 7-18-1985)
   F.   Obligation Of Responsible Party:
      1.   The application for a project subject to this article shall identify
the party responsible (hereinafter referred to as the responsible party) for
the application and any financial obligations set forth by this section,
including the name, address, daytime telephone number; relationship to the
project; and consent of the owner (if different).
      2.   It is the obligation of the responsible party filing any application
as herein described to pay all administrative, professional consulting fees and
public hearing expenses, including court reporter fees, incurred by the village
in processing and acting upon such application.
      3.   The deposit for those fees and expenses as hereinafter set forth is
intended to ensure that adequate funds will be available to the village to pay
those fees and expenses, and by making the deposit the applicant is not
relieved of the obligation to pay those fees in full if in fact those fees and
expenses exceed the deposit amount that may be with the village at any given
time. The village board shall establish the amount of the deposit to cover the
above noted costs by ordinance.
      4.   The village shall invoice the responsible party for any payment
obligation as set forth above and any deposit replenishment as may be required.
      5.   In the event that the responsible party fails to satisfy their
payment obligation and/or replenish their deposit balance within sixty (60)
days of receipt of an invoice from the village, a penalty in the amount of ten
percent (10%) of the original deposit requirement shall be added to the
outstanding obligation amount for each thirty (30) day period or portion
thereof that the responsible party's obligation remains delinquent. The village
shall retain the penalty payment amount.
   G.   Agreement To Pay Village Fees In Full: Before any application for which
a deposit fee is required by this section is accepted by the village or acted
upon, the responsible party will be required to acknowledge in writing the
responsible party's obligation to pay all fees pursuant to the provisions
contained within this section. Said form of acknowledgment shall be prescribed
by the village attorney and kept on file in the office of the village clerk.
   H.   Refunds And Additional Payments: The foregoing fee schedule is based
upon an estimate of the costs and fees that will be incurred by the village in
reviewing and acting upon the applications described. Accordingly, at the time
of final action by the corporate authorities or the written request by the
applicant that further action on the application terminate, an itemization of
costs for consultants and an administrative fee in the amount of ten percent
(10%) of the consultant's fee shall be sent to the petitioner either indicating
payment in full, providing a refund to the applicant or billing the applicant
an additional amount to be paid to the village by the applicant before final
action on the application is taken. All inspection, review and other fees
indicated by other ordinances shall remain applicable.
   I.   Additional Deposit Required: If, during the course of the review of an
application, the fees on deposit with the village reach a level of less than
fifty percent (50%) of the value of the initial deposit, the responsible party
shall pay to the village an amount that brings the deposit balance back to one
hundred percent (100%) of the initial deposit, and if the village provides the
applicant with an estimate in writing of the additional consultant fees that
will be incurred by the village, based upon estimates from the consultants
themselves, which shall be made available to the applicant, it is the
obligation of the applicant to pay to the village an additional deposit to
cover the cost of those additional anticipated fees plus an additional
administrative fee in the amount of ten percent (10%) of those anticipated
additional consultant fees. The village reserves the right to delay any further
action on the application until this additional deposit is paid. This
additional deposit is based upon an estimate of what those additional fees may
be and by making the additional deposit, the applicant is not relieved of his
obligation to pay those fees in full if in fact they exceed that estimate and
additional administrative fee. The provisions of subsection H of this section
with respect to a refund of any excess deposit shall then apply at the time of
final action or withdrawal as described in subsection H of this section. If the
additional payment is also exhausted prior to final action or withdrawal, then
an additional deposit shall again be required in accordance with the provisions
of this subsection. (Ord. 2007-2-8, 2-15-2007, amd. Ord. 2020-08-21, 8-20-2020)
9-1A-3: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT:
No building permit shall be issued without a concurrent application for the
issuance of a grading permit. In the case of an internal building change, that
is a change occurring completely within a building, or as provided in
subsection 9-1A-2E of this article, a grading permit will not be required. The
issuance of a building permit and the grading permit shall be concurrent. (Ord.
692, 7-18-1985)
9-1A-4: GRADING PLANS:
   A.   Contents: Any grading plan submitted pursuant to the requirements of
this article shall contain the following information:
      1.   Foundation elevation, including the top of foundation and any
openings below top of the foundation on all new or existing structures or
portions thereof.
      2.   Site drainage showing the existing and proposed grades for a
particular parcel and for adjoining properties affected with a minimum of one
foot (1') contour intervals in sufficient detail to clearly indicate drainage
flows.
      3.   The parcel drainage shall be designed to flow away from the top of
the foundations. Stormwater being directed to the side yard of the parcel shall
be directed into a formed drainage swale, having a minimum slope of two percent
(2%) and a maximum slope of five percent (5%). In the event that conditions
dictate that some parts of the lot be higher than the structure foundation, the
grading must show specific drainage configurations for the parcel specifying
that all drainage is to be directed to flow away from the foundation.
      4.   Construction and work such as walkways, driveways, landscaping or
any structure shall be installed so that the construction of same will not
interfere with drainage. All sidewalks, driveways, patios and other flat work
shall be at an elevation relative to the foundation wall so that water will
drain away from the structure on all sides and off the lot in a manner which
will provide reasonable freedom from erosion and permanently pocketed surface
water.
      5.   The flow from off site tributary areas that are tributary to an
intermittent stream or overflow route that must pass through the parcel must be
identified on the grading plan and must be designed in such a way to adequately
handle the flow of all water to accommodate a 100-year storm frequency.
      6.   All overflow routes for the 100-year storm and for accumulated
stormwater runoff from several lots or from off site catchment areas must be
clearly designated on the grading plan with the total width of the flow route
contained within an easement for drainage purposes.
   B.   Nonconformity With Approved Grading Plans: Any deviation from the
approved grading plans as attached to the grading permit shall require the
following: the submission of a grading plan indicating what changes are
necessary as a result of the noncompliance with the approved grading plans. The
revised grading plan application shall include the same information as required
in the case of application for the original grading permit. All work on the
parcel shall terminate until such time as new grading plans are submitted by
the permittee and approved by the village. All persons aggrieved by a decision
or decisions of the code enforcement official shall have the right of appeal to
the village board of trustees by serving seven (7) days' written notice on the
board of trustees. A public hearing on the appeal shall be conducted with
notice given to adjoining property owners in all cases involving appeals that
may have a substantial adverse effect on adjoining property. (Ord. 692, 7-18-
1985)
9-1A-5: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES:
   A.   All stormwater management facilities within any development must be
constructed in accordance with the plans provided by the permittee's design
engineer and approved by the engineer for the village. The design drawings must
be certified by a registered professional engineer and provided on standard
twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36") sheets. Smaller individual
parcels may be submitted on a smaller appropriate size.
   B.   During the review process by the village, the engineer for the village
shall designate each parcel within any subdivision or planned unit development
as critical or standard. (Ord. 692, 7-18-1985)
9-1A-6: EASEMENTS:
Whenever a natural watercourse, waterway, drainage swale or the like, draining
five (5) tributary acres or more, crosses through a parcel or any part of a
parcel, a drainage easement will be required before a grading permit or a
building permit will be issued. The engineer for the village will verify the
total tributary area draining through the subject parcel or part thereof, and
the expected runoff to determine the required capacity of the natural
watercourse and make recommendations on size of permanent easements. (Ord. 692,
7-18-1985)
9-1A-7: GRADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Subdivisions And Planned Unit Developments:
      1.   General Requirements: In a subdivision or a planned unit
development, all rough grading within a given block or area must be completed
prior to the issuance of any building permits. The developer, through its
project engineer, shall certify in writing that all rough grading is complete
within a given block, watershed or other area in strict conformity with the
grading plan as prepared and approved by the village. The engineer for the
village shall verify grading is complete as required and so notify the village
before building can proceed. All proposed drainageways, swales, detention
facilities, lot and block grading shall be complete to ensure minimum effect
and disturbance upon properties adjoining said development or other portions
within the development.
      2.   Critical Parcels:
         a.   Those parcels designated as "critical" within said development
shall have a building spot survey performed immediately after the foundation
has been poured and backfilled to ensure compliance with building setback
requirements and to ensure that elevations of any openings in the foundation
are in conformance with the approved grading plan requirements of high water
restrictions as they relate to the grading plan or stormwater management plan.
At the same time, the developer will ensure that the drainage pattern on a
particular parcel has not been altered during the course of the foundation
construction and backfilling so as to adversely affect the overall drainage
plan. Any improper grading deemed by the code enforcement official and/or
engineer for the village to be a potential hazard to any property shall be
corrected immediately upon his direction or shall be cause for suspension of
work on the parcel.
         b.   After the structure on a parcel is substantially completed and
final grading is completed, the developer shall furnish an occupancy survey to
certify that the final ground elevations are in strict compliance with the
elevations indicated on the approved grading plan.
         c.   The developer shall be responsible for the grading of each lot or
parcel through all stages of construction to ensure that drainage from
tributary areas is not blocked or hindered and that servient property is
protected from damage by providing proper grading to a storm drainage facility
in accordance with the approved grading plan.
      3.   Standard Parcels:
         a.   Those parcels designated as "standard" parcels within said
development shall have a building spot survey performed immediately after the
foundation has been poured and backfilled to ensure compliance with building
setback requirements and to ensure that rough grading has been substantially
completed so that all drainage flows away from the building to side yards,
front yards or rear yards in conformance with the approved grading plan. The
code enforcement official, or his designated representative, shall visually
inspect all standard parcels at the time rough grading is substantially
complete to ensure that yard areas have been rough graded properly before work
is allowed to continue beyond the foundation point.
         b.   After the structure on a parcel is substantially completed and
final grading is complete, the developer shall furnish an occupancy survey to
certify that final ground elevations are in strict compliance with the
elevations indicated on the approved grading plan.
      4.   Exceptions: In those cases where conditions, in the opinion of the
engineer for the village, do not permit compliance with the approved grading
plan, a revised grading plan must be submitted to the village in the same
detail as the original submission requires. In the case of those parcels that
need additional detail, the same shall be provided as required by the engineer
for the village.
   B.   Individual Lots Or Parcels Other Than In Planned Unit Developments:
Whenever an improvement, as described in subsection 9-1A-2A of this article, is
proposed on a parcel that is not part of a planned unit development or
subdivision with an overall grading plan, the engineer for the village shall
render an opinion to classify the subject parcel as a "critical" or "standard"
parcel.
      1.   Critical Parcels:
         a.   If a lot is designated as a "critical" parcel by the engineer for
the village, a grading plan will be required complying with subsection 9-1A-4A
of this article.
         b.   After the foundation has been poured, a building spot survey
shall be performed, indicating the location of the building with respect to
setback requirements, and to ensure that elevations of any openings in the
foundation are in conformance with the requirements of high water restrictions
recommended on the grading plan or stormwater management plan. Upon receipt of
the building spot survey, the code enforcement official will inspect the site
to ensure that natural overland flow has not been obstructed in any way that
may adversely affect the subject parcel, adjoining or adjacent parcels or
upstream parcels. If none of the foregoing conditions are observed by the code
enforcement official during his inspection, completion of the structure may
commence.
         c.   Upon substantial completion of the structure and final grading of
the parcel, the owner shall furnish an occupancy survey to certify the final
ground elevations and drainage contours are in strict compliance with the
elevations indicated on the approved grading plan.
      2.   Standard Parcels:
         a.   Those lots or parcels designated as "standard" parcels with
proposed improvements consisting of those described in subsection 9-1A-2A of
this article will be required to have a grading permit.
         b.   After the foundation has been completed, a building spot survey
shall be performed to ensure compliance with building setback requirements and
approved grading plan. Also at that time, the code enforcement official, or his
representative, shall visually inspect the site to ensure that the yard areas
have been graded, smoothed and sloped to facilitate drainage away from the
building and to front or rear yard stormwater facilities.
         c.   After the structure on the parcel has been substantially
completed, the code enforcement official will reinspect the site to determine
if the final grading has been provided in substantial conformance with the
approved grading plan. No occupancy permit will be issued unless and until
final grading has been provided in compliance with the approved grading plan.
(Ord. 692, 7-18-1985)
9-1A-8: PROTECTIVE GROUND COVER:
   A.   General Requirements: Immediately after final grading has been
accomplished and approved by the village on all parcels, protective ground
cover shall be installed on the parcel including the parkway for which the
permit was issued. All permittees shall be required to install protective
ground cover on all parcels for which a grading permit has been issued. The
protective ground cover shall be installed within the growing season in which
the occupancy permit is to be issued. If weather does not permit the
installation of protective ground cover, a cash bond in an amount sufficient to
guarantee the completion of the installation of the protective ground cover
shall be furnished; however, in no case shall the completion of the
installation of protective ground cover be more than the current growing
season, or June 15 of the next growing season. Alternative protective ground
cover other than grass or sod must secure the approval of the code enforcement
official at the time the grading plan is reviewed or prior to the time an
occupancy permit is requested if the permittee desires to change same.
Suggested seeding mixtures, application rates, seeding periods and areas of
application for establishing permanent protective ground cover are set forth in
table 1, on file with the village.
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   Seeded Areas: All portions of the parcel not having pavement,
sidewalks or other similar type materials placed thereon are to be provided
with protective ground cover. If the protective ground cover is seed, the
following suggestions are made in preparing the area for seed:
         a.   Place topsoil on area to be graded an average depth of four
inches (4") and grade as required to finished grades established on the grading
plan.
         b.   Prepare a firm seedbed free of clods or stones.
         c.   Apply fertilizer in sufficient rates of application to establish
satisfactory growth in the seeded area.
         d.   Select a suitable seeding mixture that will produce a permanent
ground cover within a reasonable time.
         e.   Broadcast the seed uniformly over the parcel.
         f.   Apply a mulch on all sites where slopes exceed ten feet (10') in
length and where slopes are steeper than four feet (4') horizontal to one foot
(1') vertical.
         g.   On grassed waterways where sod is not used, a fibrous or
synthetic erosion control netting shall be applied. The fibrous or synthetic
erosion control netting shall be secured with six inch (6") long metal staples
or no. 8 wire along all edges at twelve inches (12") on center. All joints are
to overlap in the netting a minimum of four inches (4") and be secured with
staples a minimum of four inches (4") apart.
      2.   Sodded Areas: Where protective ground cover is to consist of sod, it
is suggested the permanent lawn areas to be sodded be prepared in the following
manner:
         a.   All areas shall be provided with adequate topsoil having an
average thickness of four inches (4") and graded as required to finished grades
established on the grading plan. Topsoil shall be scarified as required.
         b.   A dense cultivated sod of bluegrass, bromegrass or fescue shall
be installed. Only moist, fresh sod shall be used.
         c.   Sod should be installed in spring or fall or as moisture
requirements are met and when the ground is not frozen.
         d.   Sufficient irrigation shall be provided to ensure the growth for
the newly installed sod. The obligation to furnish irrigation when sprinkling
restrictions are in effect remains the responsibility of the permittee.
   C.   Approval Of Ground Cover: The Code enforcement official may approve a
ground cover of a substance other than grass as long as the ground cover
maintains the proposed stormwater runoff capabilities of the area to be so
landscaped in substantial conformity with the degree of ground cover that would
be accomplished if grass were installed and as long as the substance other than
grass is not injurious to the health, safety and welfare of the surrounding
residents. (Ord. 692, 7-18-1985)
9-1A-9: OCCUPANCY SURVEY AND PERMITS:
   A.   Occupancy Survey: Immediately after the final parcel grading has been
accomplished, but before final seeding, sodding or landscaping takes place, the
permittee shall conduct an occupancy survey to determine if the grading has
been done in conformity with the approved grading plan. Said occupancy survey
must be submitted and approved by the Village prior to the issuance of a final
occupancy permit.
   B.   Occupancy Permits:
      1.   Conditional Occupancy Permit:
         a.   If a parcel cannot be final graded because of adverse weather
conditions or other conditions beyond the control of the permittee, the Code
enforcement official may issue a conditional occupancy permit. The conditional
occupancy permit shall be effective for only the reasonable number of days
sufficient to sustain the adverse weather conditions or the other conditions
that were beyond the permittee's control. In those instances where a
conditional occupancy permit is to be issued, the permittee shall furnish a
cash bond in an amount sufficient to guarantee the installation and successful
growth of the protective ground cover. In no case shall the cash bond be in
excess of the total cost to the Village to have the work done by an outside
contractor.
         b.   At the time of the issuance of a conditional occupancy permit,
the permittee, builder or owner shall sign a document informing them of the
provisions necessary to obtain a final occupancy permit. The document referred
to herein shall be signed by the permittee, builder and owner prior to the time
the conditional occupancy permit is issued. At the time of application for a
conditional occupancy permit, the Code enforcement official shall determine the
reasonable number of days for permittee's compliance with the requirements of a
final occupancy permit based upon the weather conditions or other conditions
that made the issuance of a final occupancy unreasonable because of said
conditions.
      2.   Final Occupancy Permit: Upon completion of final grading and the
installation of protective ground cover in substantial conformity with the
approved plans, a final occupancy permit shall be issued to the holder of the
grading permit; however, in those cases where nonconformity with the Village
ordinances do not permit the issuance of a final occupancy permit, said permit
shall not be issued. Determination of conformity with the approved grading
plans shall be made by the Village Code enforcement official. (Ord. 692, 7-18-
1985)
9-1A-10: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any portion of this article shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code for each offense. Each day such violation shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense subjecting any offender to a separate and
additional fine. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
ARTICLE B. CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
SECTION:
9-1B-1: Definitions
9-1B-2: Required
9-1B-3: Application
9-1B-4: Fees And Bonds
9-1B-5: Liability Insurance Required
9-1B-6: Issuance
9-1B-7: Scope Of General Contractor's Registration
9-1B-8: General Duties Of Registrants
9-1B-9: Suspension Or Revocation; Reinstatement
9-1B-10: Penalty
9-1B-11: Severability
9-1B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
CONTRACTOR: Any person, partnership, corporation or other business entity
engaged in the business of constructing, altering or repairing buildings or
other structures or lots and all trades and crafts associated with such work
within the village of Winfield, for which a building permit is required by this
chapter, including, but not restricted to, general building contractors,
excavating contractors, cement or concrete contractors, masonry contractors,
carpentry contractors, roofing, heating, air conditioning, ventilating,
mechanical and electrical contractors and subcontractors. A homeowner engaged
in altering or repairing their personal residence or lot shall not be
considered a contractor for purpose of this article. A homeowner constructing a
stand alone structure or addition to an existing building that will serve as a
part of their personal residence, which is in excess of eight hundred (800)
square feet in area is required to register as a contractor, and shall be
subject to the bonding requirements as set forth in subsection 9-1B-4C, "Bonds;
Letter Of Credit", of this article, but shall be exempted from paying the
registration fee.
GENERAL CONTRACTOR: A person, partnership, corporation or other business entity
that uses one or more trades or subcontractors to perform the required
construction on any project for which a building permit is required.
HOMEOWNER: The owner-occupant of a parcel located within the village of
Winfield who is listed as the owner on the township assessor's parcel tax roll
or is confirmed as an owner by village staff through the presentation of a
recorded deed or copy of a contract for the purchase of said parcel located
within the village of Winfield.
SUBCONTRACTOR: A contractor who performs only one type of work that is
classified as a trade, such as excavating contractors, cement or concrete
contractors, masonry contractors, carpentry contractors, roofing, heating, air
conditioning, ventilating, refrigeration, mechanical and electrical
contractors. (Ord. 2006-10-47, 10-5-2006)
9-1B-2: REQUIRED:
No person shall act or perform any services as a general contractor, contractor
or subcontractor within the village of Winfield without first having obtained a
contractor's registration therefor as herein provided.
   A.   Contractors that hold a valid state of Illinois plumbing license and
who perform plumbing or irrigation work only are not required to register under
this article to perform said work in the village of Winfield; however, they
must comply with all village permit and inspection requirements.
   B.   An electrical or heating, ventilating, air conditioning or
refrigeration contractor, upon submission of sufficient proof of valid current
licensing as an electrical or heating, ventilation, air conditioning or
refrigeration contractor or subcontractor with another Illinois municipality as
determined by the village of Winfield, does not need to register with the
village of Winfield as a contractor or subcontractor. (Ord. 2006-10-47, 10-5-
2006)
9-1B-3: APPLICATION:
All applications for contractor's registration required in section
9-1B-2 of this article shall be made in writing to the village of Winfield,
department of building, upon forms furnished by the village. Each application
shall state the name and business address of the applicant, whether it is a
general contractor, contractor or subcontractor, and if a contractor or
subcontractor, the trade or trades involved, the number of the applicant's
employees who would be operating under such registration and a statement that
the applicant is familiar with all applicable village of Winfield ordinances,
codes and regulations and agrees to fully comply with same. (Ord. 2006-1-01, 1-
5-2006)
9-1B-4: FEES AND BONDS:
   A.   Registration Forms: The village manager shall be charged with
promulgating the necessary contractor registration forms and other
administrative provisions necessary to implement this article.
   B.   Registration Fees: The annual fees for a contractor's registration, as
required in section
9-1B-2 of this article are as follows:
      1.   General contractor registration fee:
         a.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per year for businesses;
         b.   Fees for applications received after July 31 shall be prorated by
one-half (1/2).
      2.   Subcontractor and all other contractors' registration fee: One
hundred dollars ($100.00) per year, except the following:
         a.   Electrical contractor or subcontractor: Twenty five dollars
($25.00).
         b.   Heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and refrigeration
contractors or subcontractors: Forty dollars ($40.00).
         c.   Fees for applications received after July 31 shall be prorated by
one-half (1/2).
   C.   Bonds; Letter Of Credit: Each applicant for a registration shall,
before receiving such a registration, file with the village of Winfield
building department an indemnifying bond issued by a company approved and
authorized to issue bonds by the state of Illinois in a form suitable to the
village of Winfield in the following penal sums payable to the village of
Winfield. If a property owner that is serving as a general contractor cannot
secure bonding, a letter of credit that can be drawn upon by the village or
cash bond can be substituted.
      1.   Twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) for a general contractor, and
      2.   Ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for a contractor or subcontractor;
including property owners serving as their own contractor.
   D.   Proof Of State Licensure: All roofing, plumbing, or electrical
contractors or subcontractors shall submit sufficient proof as determined by
the village of Winfield of valid current licensing as a roofing, plumbing or
electrical contractor by the state of Illinois or another Illinois municipality
that performs licensure. (Ord. 2006-10-47, 10-5-2006)
9-1B-5: LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall act as a general contractor, contractor or subcontractor within
the village, nor shall be registered, unless said general contractor,
contractor or subcontractor deposits with the village of Winfield a certificate
of insurance issued to said general contractor, contractor or subcontractor by
a company approved and authorized to issue such insurance by the state of
Illinois for the full period of the registration period in the following
amounts with aggregate liability insurance limits required in the following
minimum levels:
A. General contractor:
A. General contractor:
  General liability and or excess  $1,000,000.00 aggregate
   liability in combination
  Auto liability                   $500,000.00 per occurrence
  Workers' compensation            State of Illinois statutory minimum
                                     unless exempt
B. Property owner acting as own contractor; insurance coverage shall be
   job specific:
  General liability                $500,000.00 per occurrence
  Auto liability                   $500,000.00 per occurrence
C. Contractor or subcontractor, not including a business engaged in
   demolition work:
  General liability                $500,000.00 per occurrence
  Auto liability                   $500,000.00 per occurrence
  Workers' compensation            State of Illinois statutory minimum
                                     unless exempt
 
The certificate of insurance shall provide that the insurance is not cancelable
during the policy period without thirty (30) days' written notice to the
Village of Winfield, and the Village of Winfield shall be named as certificate
holder. Workers' compensation for any contractor or subcontractor who is a sole
proprietor or partnership, and not a corporation, need not have workers'
compensation insurance on the owner or partners unless they so elect. (Ord.
2006-10-47, 10-5-2006)
9-1B-6: ISSUANCE:
The Village of Winfield Department of Building shall issue registration upon
proper application and compliance with the provisions of this article, and
payment of the fee set forth in section
9-1B-4 of this article. All registration shall be valid until January 31 of the
year following issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. All annual
renewal registrations are due by January 31 of that calendar year. (Ord. 2006-
1-01, 1-5-2006)
9-1B-7: SCOPE OF GENERAL CONTRACTOR'S REGISTRATION:
Any person registered as a general contractor shall not be required to secure
an additional registration for performance of carpentry, masonry, cement or
concrete contracting. (Ord. 2006-1-01, 1-5-2006)
9-1B-8: GENERAL DUTIES OF REGISTRANTS:
All general contractors, contractors and subcontractors registered under
section
9-1B-2 of this article shall comply with the provisions of all applicable
Village Codes and ordinances and, in addition thereto, shall provide a refuse
container with a cover as necessary and, at least once each week or more often
as directed by the Village of Winfield building official, shall remove or cause
to be removed from the site of contractor's activities all trash, refuse and
waste materials. General contractors, contractors and subcontractors shall at
all times keep the site of activities in an orderly condition, free from
standing water, unguarded dangerous implements or conditions and health and
safety hazards, and contractors shall not obstruct traffic on streets or
sidewalks or permit dirt or waste materials to fall or be carried onto such
public ways. General contractors, contractors and subcontractors shall also
abide by the Village's Tree Preservation Ordinances and shall provide
applicable barriers around all trees as provided by this Code. (Ord. 2006-1-01,
1-5-2006)
9-1B-9: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; REINSTATEMENT:
Any registration issued under the provisions of this article may be suspended
for up to thirty (30) days or revoked by the Village Manager or his/her
designee for any violation of any of the provisions of this article. The
Village Manager shall by certified mail or personal delivery provide the
registrant with a notice describing the violation(s) alleged and giving the
date, time and location of a hearing on said violation(s) before the Village
Manager or his/her designee. Such notice shall be mailed to or served on the
registrant at least five (5) days before the hearing. The Village Manager is
authorized to adopt such reasonable rules and regulations regarding the hearing
process as is necessary. Any suspension or revocation shall not preclude any
other remedies or actions authorized by law. No person whose registration has
been revoked as herein provided shall be eligible for a new registration for a
period of one year from the date of such revocation. All appeals from the
action of the Village Manager to revoke a contractor's registration shall be
subject to review by the Circuit Court of the State of Illinois as provided by
law.
The Village of Winfield may refuse to issue a registration that does not meet
all the requirements of this article. Any appeals from an action of the Village
of Winfield Building Department to refuse to issue a contractor's registration
shall be filed within ten (10) days of such refusal with the Village Manager
who shall conduct a hearing on such refusal to issue a registration in the same
manner as provided above for the suspension or revocation of a registration.
(Ord. 2006-1-01, 1-5-2006)
9-1B-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation performing work in the Village without having
a current valid registration shall be ordered to stop work in progress by the
Village Manager and/or his/her assignees until proper registration is obtained.
In addition to all other remedies available to the Village of Winfield at law
or equity, any contractor who violates or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this article shall be fined as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
9-1B-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, sentence or provision of this
article shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
such judgment shall not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the remainder
thereof, which remainder shall remain and continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2006-1-01, 1-5-2006)
CHAPTER 2
EXISTING STRUCTURES CODE
(Rep. by Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
CHAPTER 3
SIGNS 1
SECTION:
9-3-1: Permit Requirements
9-3-2: Illuminated Signs
9-3-3: Inspections
9-3-4: Bond And Insurance
9-3-5: Liability For Signs
9-3-6: Dangerous Or Illegal Signs
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-2-16 of this code.
9-3-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Exemption: No sign shall be constructed, erected,
originally painted, converted, altered, rebuilt, enlarged, remodeled, relocated
or expanded until a permit for such sign has been obtained in accordance with
the standards and procedures set out in this chapter. However, no permit shall
be required for maintenance as defined herein.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for permits shall be submitted on a
form and in the manner prescribed by the zoning administrator and shall contain
the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected.
      3.   Position of the sign or other advertising structure in relation to
nearby buildings or structures.
      4.   Two (2) drawings and one electronic version of the plans and
specifications and method of construction and attachment to the building or in
the ground.
      5.   At the discretion of the zoning administrator, copy of stress sheets
and calculations showing the structure is designed for dead load and wind
pressure in any direction in the amount required by this title and all other
ordinances of the village.
      6.   Name of person, firm, corporation or association erecting structure.
      7.   Written permission from the owner of the property upon which the
sign is to be located, if other than the applicant.
      8.   Such other information as the zoning administrator shall require to
show full compliance with this and all other laws and ordinances of the
village.
   C.   Permit Fees: Permit fees charged for each sign are found in section
9-1-4 of this title.
   D.   Expiration Of Permit: If the work authorized under a sign permit has
not been completed within six (6) months after the date of issuance, the permit
shall become null and void.
   E.   Permit Denial Or Revocation; Refusal Of Further Permit:
      1.   Denial, Suspension Or Revocation: The zoning administrator may deny,
suspend or revoke a permit issued under provisions of this chapter whenever the
permit is issued on the basis of a misstatement of fact or fraud. When a sign
permit is denied by the zoning administrator, he shall give written notice of
the denial to the applicant, together with a brief written statement of the
reasons for the denial.
      2.   Refusal Of Further Permits: The village shall refuse to issue any
further sign permit to any such party or owner, or their agents or
representatives, who is in violation of the requirements of this chapter or who
refuses to pay costs assessed for corrective action under the provisions of
this chapter.
   F.   Appeals: Appeals of the interpretation of this chapter by the zoning
administrator are heard by the zoning board of appeals, and all hearings and
determinations shall be subject to all provisions of the zoning code. (Ord.
2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
9-3-2: ILLUMINATED SIGNS:
All illuminated signs shall be subject to the following requirements:
   A.   All electrical work on illuminated signs and signs with electrical
wiring must be covered by a valid electrical permit.
   B.   Relettering which requires a change of piping or sign wiring shall be
subject to the approval of the building inspector.
   C.   The voltage of any electrical apparatus used in connection with the
sign shall be conspicuously placed on that apparatus.
   D.   Illuminated signs shall not have any flashing, scintillating, traveling
or blinking lights or rotating beacons, nor shall any beam of light be
projected through a mechanism which periodically changes the color of the light
reaching the sign. A sign on which the current time or temperature, or both, is
indicated by intermittent lighting changes shall not be deemed to be a flashing
sign if the lights do not exceed forty (40) watts per lamp, the changes are
limited to the numerals indicating the time or temperature, and the sign is in
conformance with the other regulations for such signs in this chapter.
   E.   Whenever external illumination is used for a sign, the source of the
light shall be located, shielded and directed in such a manner that the light
does not shine or cause glare onto any surrounding public street or private
residence.
   F.   Internally illuminated signs shall permit light to shine fully through
only the lettering and graphic elements of the sign. The background for such
lettering and graphics shall be opaque or translucent and shall transmit light
at a level substantially less than that transmitted through the lettering and
graphics.
   G.   In no case shall the lighting intensity of any sign, whether resulting
from internal or external illumination, exceed seventy five (75) foot-candles
when measured with a standard light meter perpendicular to the face of the sign
at a distance equal to the narrowest dimension of the sign. (Ord. 2010-07-23,
7-15-2010)
9-3-3: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Preinstallation Inspection: The sign contractor shall schedule with the
zoning administrator a preinstallation inspection prior to installing any sign
requiring a permit. Such inspection shall include a footing inspection, if
applicable, and confirmation of the other details of mounting and placement.
   B.   Final Inspection: The sign contractor shall notify the zoning
administrator upon completion of the work for which a permit is required and so
schedule a final inspection by appropriate inspectors. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-
2010)
9-3-4: BOND AND INSURANCE:
   A.   Bond: For signs costing more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), a
performance bond on the work to be done shall be required at the time of
issuance of a sign permit. The amount of the bond shall be determined by a
schedule maintained by the zoning administrator with the approval of the
village board.
   B.   Insurance: Every sign contractor required to provide public
indemnification shall provide a certificate of insurance with coverage adequate
to indemnify the village against any form of liability to a minimum of five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00). (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
9-3-5: LIABILITY FOR SIGNS:
All sign contractors engaged in the erection, alteration, relocation,
maintenance of a sign or other sign work in or over or immediately adjacent to
a public right of way or public property so that a portion of the public right
of way or public property is used or encroached upon by the contractor, shall
agree to hold harmless and indemnify the village, its officers, agents and
employees from any and all claims of negligence resulting from such work. (Ord.
2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
9-3-6: DANGEROUS OR ILLEGAL SIGNS:
   A.   Notice Of Dangerous Or Illegal Condition; Remedy: If the zoning
administrator shall at any time find that any sign is unsafe or insecure, or is
a menace to the public, or has been constructed, installed or is being
maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter, he shall give
written notice to the sign contractor (if the sign installation is incomplete
or improper), to the person to whom the sign permit had been issued or, if the
permittee cannot be located within thirty (30) days, to the owner of the
premises on which the sign is located. If the notified party fails to remove or
alter the sign so as to comply with the standards herein set forth within
fourteen (14) calendar days after notice, such sign may be removed, or altered
to comply, by the village.
   B.   Financial Liability: The cost of sign repair or removal performed on
privately owned signs at the order of the zoning administrator in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter shall be the joint and several liability of
the following:
      1.   The sign contractor, if the sign installation was improper or not
complete at the time notice of violation was given, and shall be collected from
his bond, or
      2.   The sign owner, or
      3.   If the sign owner cannot be located by the zoning administrator
within thirty (30) days, the premises owner.
   C.   Costs A Lien; Foreclosure: In the event of failure by any party to
reimburse the village within sixty (60) days for costs incurred for repair or
removal ordered by the zoning administrator, the village board shall certify
the charges for repair or removal to the village attorney who will be then
authorized to file a notice of lien in the appropriate office of the recorder
of deeds to foreclose this lien, and to sue the owner of the real estate, or
sign permittee, or their agents, in a civil action to recover the money due to
the foregoing services, plus all expenses, as hereinafter more fully described,
and reasonable attorney fees to be fixed by the court. Any such judgment shall
be enforced in accordance with the law. Included in the expenses recoverable by
the village, the village is entitled to collect the costs of filing the notice
of lien, foreclosing said lien and all litigation costs, together with all
office and legal expense incurred in connection with the collection of the
amount due hereunder. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
CHAPTER 4
HOUSE NUMBERING
SECTION:
9-4-1: House Numbering Plan
9-4-2: Plats Kept; Numbers Issued
9-4-3: Size Of Figures
9-4-4: Failure To Number
9-4-5: Changing Number
9-4-6: Penalty
9-4-1: HOUSE NUMBERING PLAN:
All buildings situated or hereafter erected or located on any of the streets,
avenues and public highways within the Village shall be numbered by the owner
or occupant thereof according to the following plan:
   A.   For the purpose of said numbering there are hereby established two (2)
base lines: a north and south base line coinciding with the east section line
of section 7 in Milton Township and an east and west base line coinciding with
the north section lines of section 13 and section 14 in Winfield Township and
the south section line of section 7 in Milton Township.
   B.   House numbers on the north and south streets, avenues and public
highways shall begin at the east and west base line, which is zero, the first
number north of said base line being known as 0 N 0 1, and the first number
south of said base line being known as 0 S 0 1, one number being allotted for
each fifteen feet (15') of frontage; provided, that house numbers south of
Roosevelt Road shall begin with 1 S 0 1.
   C.   House numbers on the east and west streets, avenues and public highways
shall begin with 26 W 0 1 west of the north and south base line, and with 27 W
0 1 at the east section lines of section 12, section 13 and section 24 in
Winfield Township, and with 28 W 0 1 at the east section lines of section 14
and section 23 in Winfield Township; one number likewise being allotted for
each fifteen feet (15') of frontage.
   D.   The numbers shall progress in the direction indicated, with each one-
eighth (1/8) of a mile being allotted one hundred (100) numbers or less. The
four hundred (400) block shall terminate at the quarter section lines in all
cases. In fractional sections one hundred (100) numbers shall be allotted to
each remaining one-eighth (1/8) of a mile.
   E.   Odd numbers shall be on the south and east sides of streets and even
numbers shall be on the north and west sides of streets.
   F.   By the term "east and west streets" as used herein, is meant all
streets the direction of which is easterly and westerly, and by the term "north
and south streets" as used herein, is meant all streets the direction of which
is northerly and southerly. (Ord. 299, 8-30-1963)
9-4-2: PLATS KEPT; NUMBERS ISSUED:
For the purpose of facilitating a correct enumeration, plats of all the
streets, avenues and public ways within the Village, showing the proper number
of all lots or houses fronting thereon, shall be prepared by the Village
Engineer and filed with the Village Clerk, and it shall be the duty of the
Village Clerk to assign to each house its proper number and deliver free of
charge to the owner or occupant a certificate designating each number, and to
adjust all mistakes and errors in numbering. No number shall be placed on any
premises except that contained in the certificate of the Clerk. (Ord. 299, 8-
30-1963)
9-4-3: SIZE OF FIGURES:
Each of the figures of every number shall be not less than three inches (3") in
height, of proportionate width, of such color and affixed in such place as to
be easily and distinctly read and in plain view from the street. Said numbers
shall be placed on the building either on, above or immediately to the side of
the door, or at some other and more conspicuous place on or near the front of
the building. (Ord. 299, 8-30-1963)
9-4-4: FAILURE TO NUMBER:
   A.   Any owner or occupant of any building now erected or located in the
Village who, after being notified in writing by mail by the Village Clerk that
the building number is on record and filed with the Village Clerk, shall, for
thirty (30) days after such written notice shall be mailed, neglect or refuse
to number any building owned or occupied by him in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code.
   B.   Any owner or occupant of any building hereafter erected in the Village
who shall, for thirty (30) days after the same shall be erected, neglect or
refuse to number said building according to the provisions of this chapter,
shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code. (Ord. 299, 8-30-1963; amd. 1994 Code; per correspondence
dated 7-31-2018)
9-4-5: CHANGING NUMBER:
Whenever any premises have been numbered as herein provided, it shall be
unlawful for any person or corporation to change or alter such number or to
place any other number thereon except that contained in the certificate of the
Village Clerk. (Ord. 299, 8-30-1963)
9-4-6: PENALTY:
Any owner or occupant of any building now situated or hereafter erected in the
Village who shall number said building without having first obtained from the
Village Clerk a certificate designating the proper number or who shall change
or alter any such number or place any other number thereon except that
contained in the certificate of the Village Clerk, or who shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter for which violation no fine has been above
provided, shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code. (Ord. 299, 8-30-1963; amd. 1994 Code; per correspondence
dated 7-31-2018)
CHAPTER 5
FENCES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Permit Required; Fees
9-5-3: Fence Requirements
9-5-3-1: Residential Districts
9-5-4: Prohibited Fences
9-5-5: Nonconforming Fences
9-5-6: Penalties
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BUILDING LINE: The line described by the side of the principal building closest
to the adjoining lot line.
DECORATIVE FENCE: Any fence not in excess of forty two inches (42") in height
constructed of wrought iron, split rails or pickets which does not totally
enclose a yard.
GARDEN FENCE: Any fence not exceeding four feet (4'), designed to enclose a
garden for the purposes of protecting vegetables and plants.
LANDSCAPE FENCE: Any fence that does not totally enclose an area and is not
more than twenty feet (20') in total length measured by adding together the
length of the fence in each direction that it extends not more than ten feet
(10') in length in any one direction.
LOT LINE AND CORNER LOT: As defined in the Winfield Zoning Ordinance, section
10-1-4 of this Code.
MAJOR ARTERIAL HIGHWAY: A highway with four (4) or more lanes of traffic and an
average traffic volume in excess of fifteen thousand (15,000) vehicles per
twenty four (24) hours and a speed limit of forty (40) miles per hour. (Ord.
671, 8-22-1984; amd. Ord. 91-10-4; 1994 Code)
9-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES:
A permit is required for the construction, installation or erection of all
fences except landscape and garden fences. Permit fees are found in section
9-1-4 of this title. (Ord. 2006-9-41, 9-7-2006)
9-5-3: FENCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All Fences: All fences, in all zoning districts, shall be erected so
that the finished side of the fence shall face outward from the property on
which it is erected.
   B.   Business, Town Center, Industrial And Public Zoning Districts: A
minimum six foot (6') high fence with a closed fabric design or compact hedge
shall be erected along the lot line of lots in districts zoned Business, Town
Center, Industrial or Public where such lot lines abut a Residence District so
as to provide effective screening. The owner of such a lot shall be responsible
for the erection and maintenance of the required fence or hedge.
   C.   Multi-Family Zoning Districts:
      1.   A minimum six foot (6') high fence with a closed fabric design or
compact hedge shall be erected along the lot line of improved lots in districts
zoned Multi-Family where such lot lines abut Single-Family Residence Districts.
The owner of such a lot shall be responsible for the erection and maintenance
of the required fence or hedge.
      2.   For the purpose of this subsection, multi-family is as defined in
the Winfield Zoning Ordinance.
      3.   This provision does not apply to lot lines within a planned unit
development since the Winfield Zoning Ordinance contains screening requirements
applicable to such development.
   D.   Swimming Pools: Fences shall be erected around swimming pools as
required in the Winfield Building Code, chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 2018-12-
39, 12-20-2018)
9-5-3-1: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Height Limitations: No fence shall be erected in excess of six feet
(6') along interior or rear lot lines; provided, that the height limitations
contained herein shall not apply to shrubs or hedges on interior lot lines or
rear lot lines except as required by section
9-5-3 of this chapter, and shall not apply to property owned by tax levying
districts, and all fences abutting regulation size tennis courts shall be
exempt from the height limitations of this chapter.
   B.   Location: Except as follows, all permitted fences must be constructed
within one foot (1') of the fence owner's interior or rear lot lines, and all
such fences shall be permanent and not temporary structures. Exceptions are as
follows:
      1.   Patio privacy fences not to exceed six feet (6') in height within
the rear and side building lines.
      2.   A dog enclosure or run not to exceed six feet (6') in height, or
enclose an area greater than twenty percent (20%) of the rear yard may be
constructed in the rear yard, providing it is set back five feet (5') from all
property lines.
      3.   Garden fence enclosing a garden in a rear or side yard, not to
exceed four feet (4').
   C.   Permitted Fences In Residential Districts In Subdivisions On Major
Arterial Highways: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 9-5-4E of this
chapter, to allow for some degree of uniformity in perimeter fencing, in
connection with the approval of subdivisions that have two (2) or more lots
that adjoin major arterial highways as defined herein, the President and Board
of Trustees may allow a corner side yard fence to be located closer to the
abutting major arterial highway subject to the following limitations:
      1.   At least fifty percent (50%) of the lots improved with single-family
residences and located within the corporate limits and within three thousand
feet (3,000') of and on the same side of the major arterial highway as the
subdivision, have fences (other than landscape and decorative fences) in the
corner side or rear yards abutting the major arterial highway.
      2.   The developer of the subdivision desires to provide uniform
screening from the traffic and noise caused by that major arterial highway and
one or more of the lots in the subdivision are platted so that the rear lot
line, as defined in the Zoning Ordinance 1 , abuts the major arterial highway
and therefore the desired screening is allowed for that lot.
      3.   The corner side yard fence is located within three feet (3') of the
lot line.
      4.   The corner side yard fence is not located in the vision triangle
formed by drawing a straight line along the property line abutting each
intersecting street a distance of twenty five feet (25') commencing at the
point where the corner side yard lot line and the front yard lot line meet, and
then connecting the termination points of each of those lines to enclose a
triangle.
      5.   The corner side yard fence does not extend into the front yard.
(Ord. 91-10-4, 10-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this Code.
9-5-4: PROHIBITED FENCES:
The following fences are hereby prohibited:
   A.   Wire And Electric Fences:
      1.   Barbed wire, chicken wire (unless used to enclose a rear or side
yard garden), hog wire, rope, cable and electrically charged wire; except, that
barbed wire may be used on top of permitted fences in Industrial Districts and
on fences enclosing property owned by a tax levying district.
      2.   Chain-link fences with barbed ends up.
   B.   Snow Fences: Snow fences, except those erected for the sole purpose of
controlling drifting snow between November 1 and March 31, installed only on
that portion of a lot which faces or abuts a road, street or highway, and which
are in place only between November 1 and March 31.
   C.   Fences Blocking Surface Water Drainage: A fence which is so constructed
as to prevent natural water drainage and/or water runoff.
   D.   Gates Or Fences Across Driveways: No gate or fence is permitted across
a driveway within the front or side yard abutting a street in a Residence
District.
   E.   Fences In Front Yards: Any fence, except a required fence, a decorative
or landscape fence as set forth in sections
9-5-1 and
9-5-3 of this chapter, in a front yard, if the fence would be closer to any
street or roadway than the front building lines established by the building or
residence as located on the lot (see figure A of this section).
   F.   Corner Lot Fences: Any fence on a corner lot which extends closer to
the adjoining street than the front or side line of the existing structure (see
figure A of this section) except for decorative and landscape fences as
permitted in section
9-5-3 of this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Building
Commissioner, without a public hearing, on application by the property owner,
is authorized to issue variance to allow the following:
      1.   With respect to corner lots in Business Districts (including the
Town Center), a fence on a corner lot to extend closer to the adjoining street
than the front or side line of the existing structure principal building, if
screening from an adjoining use is desirable but not otherwise required by this
chapter, on the condition that the fence extend no closer to the adjoining
street than the line of an existing structure on an adjoining lot, and that the
fence not create an additional vision obstruction for traffic or pedestrians.
      2.   With respect to corner lots in all Residential Districts, if an
existing corner side yard is wider by more than five feet (5') than the corner
side yard width required by the regulations of the Residential Zoning District
in which it is located and the location of one or more mature trees makes it
impossible to place a fence as close to the street abutting the corner side
yard as this chapter would otherwise allow, then a corner side yard fence can
be located closer to the abutting street right-of-way subject to the following
limitations:
         a.   The fence must be at least one foot (1') from, but not within,
said right-of-way.
         b.   No fence shall be located in the vision triangle formed by
drawing a straight line along the property line abutting each intersecting
street a distance of twenty five feet (25') commencing at the point where the
corner side yard lot line and front yard lot line meet, and then connecting the
termination points of each of those lines to enclose a triangle.
         c.   That part of the fence which is located in the corner side yard
cannot exceed four feet (4') in height and must be open weave design so that
the fence is at least fifty percent (50%) open.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2152.gif]
(Ord. 2018-12-39, 12-20-2018)
9-5-5: NONCONFORMING FENCES:
   A.   Damaged Fences; Restoration And Repair: A fence which does not comply
with this chapter but which is in place on or before the effective date hereof
and which is destroyed by fire or other casualty or act of God or deteriorates
to the extent that the cost of restoration to the condition in which it was
before the occurrence will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of
restoration of the entire fence now, shall not be restored unless said fence
shall conform to all regulations of this chapter. In the event that such damage
or destruction is less than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of
the fence now, no repairs or reconstruction shall be made unless such
restoration is started within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of
the partial destruction and is diligently prosecuted to completion.
   B.   Amortization Period: Any fence erected prior to the effective date
hereof which is in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be removed
or brought into compliance with all provisions of this chapter no later than
twenty five (25) years subsequent to the effective date hereof. (Ord. 671, 8-
22-1984)
9-5-6: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist after notification thereof shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
671, 8-22-1984; amd. 1994 Code; per correspondence dated 7-31-2018)
CHAPTER 6
SWIMMING POOLS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2016-12-28, 12-1-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 9-1-1L of this title.
CHAPTER 7
DEMOLITION
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-2: Permit Required
9-7-3: Asbestos Abatement Contractors
9-7-4: Standards
9-7-5: Public Notice
9-7-6: Contractor Registration; Bond/Letter Of Credit
9-7-7: Penalty
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
These regulations are provided to regulate the demolition of existing
structures and appurtenances in the village of Winfield to ensure the
protection of the permit holder, workers, and the general public. (Ord. 2006-8-
32, 8-3-2006)
9-7-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   A demolition permit shall be obtained from the village of Winfield
prior to any demolition of any structure or interior load bearing wall of any
structure.
   B.   The following additional regulations shall pertain to demolitions of
habitable residential and commercial buildings exceeding five hundred (500)
square feet in area:
      1.   A hazardous material removal permit shall be required for all
demolitions, alterations, or repairs of a structure which has been determined
to contain asbestos or other hazardous material regulated by the Illinois
department of environmental protection title 35: environmental protection,
subtitle G: waste disposal, chapter I: pollution control board, subchapter c:
hazardous waste operating conditions, part 721 - identification and listing of
hazardous materials, and part 729 prohibited hazardous wastes in land disposal
units. Such permit shall be secured prior to the commencement of demolition.
The village's permit application shall be accompanied by a state of Illinois
notification of demolition and renovation form.
      2.   The permit application shall be accompanied by a phase I
environmental report from an individual or firm licensed by the state of
Illinois department of public health to perform such assessment, noting the
extent of the presence of asbestos or other hazardous materials, if any.
      3.   Before a building or structure can be wrecked, the owner, person or
firm shall notify all utilities having service connections within the building,
such as water, electric, gas, sewer and other connections to disconnect said
services to prevent pollution and hazardous material, such as ignition of
natural gas by construction activities. A permit to demolish will not be issued
until a release is obtained from all utilities, stating that their respective
service connections and appurtenant equipment, such as meters and regulators,
have been removed, sealed, or plugged in a safe manner. In the case of a
property being served by a private well and/or septic field, the permit
applicant shall supply a statement from a plumber licensed in the state of
Illinois that the well and septic field services have been disconnected, and
provide a detailed plan for the use or abandonment/removal of the private
facilities following the demolition of the structure being served.
   C.   The demolition contractor shall comply with all other applicable state,
local or federal laws with respect to demolition activity. (Ord. 2006-8-32, 8-
3-2006)
9-7-3: ASBESTOS ABATEMENT CONTRACTORS:
   A.   Any person or firm engaged in commercial activity of construction,
demolition, alteration or repair of a structure for which has been determined
asbestos containing material is present, must be properly licensed by the state
of Illinois department of public health and registered with the village of
Winfield.
   B.   Any person engaged in commercial activity of asbestos removal shall
comply with the Illinois pollution control board regulations, 35 Illinois
administrative code 228 and as amended. (Ord. 2006-8-32, 8-3-2006)
9-7-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   Toppling Of Walls: When demolition by toppling occurs, such reasonable
measures for dust emission control as it is compatible with the type and
structure shall be utilized, and adequate fall areas shall be determined.
   B.   Dust Control: Before the demolition of any section of wall, floor,
roof, or other structure, adequate wetting procedures to allay the dust shall
be utilized; all debris shall be thoroughly wetted before loading and while
dumping into trucks, other vehicles or containers. Use of a water spray fogging
nozzle is generally preferred. Where buckets are used, the debris shall be
adequately wetted to preclude dust dispersion when buckets are dumped. In the
event particulate matter becomes airborne for a continuous period of ten (10)
minutes, despite the application of water or due to freezing temperatures, the
work of demolition shall cease at once until other adequate dust control
measures can be taken.
   C.   Transport Of Debris: Trucks shall be adequately covered or enclosed to
prevent dust dispersion while in transit to point of disposal.
   D.   Structural Supports; Steel And Wood Beams And Trusts: No structural
members shall be dropped or thrown from any floor but shall be carefully
lowered to ground level by hoists.
   E.   Handling Procedures; Debris: Debris shall not be dropped or thrown from
any floor to any floor below, in buildings three (3) stories or thirty feet
(30') greater in height. Debris shall be transported from the upper floors via
enclosed dusttight chutes or via buckets. Where chutes are used, a water
wetting agent spray shall be employed to saturate the debris before it reaches
the point of discharge from the chute.
   F.   Lot Regulation: Whenever a structure is demolished or removed, the
premises shall be maintained free from all unsafe or hazardous conditions by
the proper regulation of the lot.
   G.   Grading Of Lot: Where a structure has been demolished or removed and a
new building permit has not been issued, the vacant lot shall be filled,
graded, and maintained in conformity to the established elevation of the street
grade at the curb level nearest the point of demolition or excavation. The
permit holder shall take measures to prevent the accumulation of water or
damage to any foundations on the premises or the adjacent property.
   H.   Cleanliness: The permit holder shall be responsible for keeping
demolition debris and mud within the site. All waste materials shall be removed
in a manner which prevents injury or damage to persons, adjoining properties
and rights of way. If debris or mud ends up off of the site, the permit holder
shall be responsible for its removal and proper disposal before the end of each
workday.
   I.   Segregation Of Materials: Demolition materials shall be segregated
according to combustible and noncombustible. The sorting and disposal of debris
in on site special purpose containers is encouraged. The permit holder shall
make certain that proper precautions are undertaken for handling various toxic
chemicals: acids, fuel oils, cleaning fluids, paints, and those materials are
disposed of as prescribed by law.
   J.   Site Protection: A perimeter shall be established around the structure
and appurtenances subject to demolition, in which demolition work will be
contained. The perimeter shall provide adequate room for maneuvering equipment,
short term storage of demolition materials, and take into consideration
adequate fall zones. The perimeter shall be entirely enclosed through the
installation of four foot (4') high orange "snow fencing" to keep unauthorized
parties out of the demolition area. Signs shall be installed warning members of
the public of the dangers of demolition.
   K.   Site Safety: Permit holders shall ensure that all persons performing
demolition work comport their activities consistent with the United States
department of labor occupational safety and health administration standards,
including: 29 CFR 1926, subparts D - occupational health and environmental
controls; E - personal protective equipment and life safety equipment; I -
personal protective equipment, respiratory protection; J - welding and cutting;
L - scaffolds; M - fall protection; T - demolition; and Z - toxic and hazardous
substances.
   L.   Protection Of Adjacent Properties: The permit holder shall at all times
and at his/her own expense preserve and protect the adjoining lot(s), building
(s), or structure(s) from damage or injury. (Ord. 2006-8-32, 8-3-2006)
9-7-5: PUBLIC NOTICE:
The permit holder shall inform all property owners within two hundred fifty
feet (250') of the perimeter of the property subject to the demolition permit
of the pending demolition work at least seven (7) days prior to the
commencement of demolition. Notification shall be by first class mail. (Ord.
2006-8-32, 8-3-2006)
9-7-6: CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION; BOND/LETTER OF CREDIT:
   A.   Any contractual firm performing demolition work under contract shall
comport to the requirements for registration as provided in this title.
   B.   For demolition work being performed by the owner of record without
assistance of a contractor or subcontractor, no demolition permit shall be
issued until:
      1.   The applicant files with the Village of Winfield Building Department
an indemnifying bond issued by a company approved and authorized to issue bonds
by the State of Illinois or letter of credit in a form suitable to the Village
of Winfield in an amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or payable to the
Village of Winfield, for the use to complete demolition work in the event that
the permit holder fails to complete said demolition within one year from the
date of commencement.
      2.   The applicant shows proof of general liability insurance in the
forms of certificate of insurance and a letter from the insured's carrier to
adequately cover claims for damages that could result from performance of
demolition work by the owner of record. The minimum level of general liability
coverage shall be five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) aggregate. (Ord.
2006-8-32, 8-3-2006)
9-7-7: PENALTY:
Any person or firm who shall violate a provision of this chapter, or fail to
comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof shall be fined as
provided in sections
13-1-3 and
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 8
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION NUISANCES
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: Applicability
9-8-3: Informing The General Public
9-8-4: Materials And Spoils Storage
9-8-5: Access; Fencing
9-8-6: Site Management Standards
9-8-7: Site Management Deposit
9-8-8: Penalty
9-8-1: PURPOSE:
These regulations are designed to ameliorate the public health, safety and
welfare issues associated with new construction in proximity to populated areas
of the village. The public health, safety and welfare concerns include:
   A.   Lack of information for the general public regarding the status of
building construction projects;
   B.   Erosion and damage to trees and vegetation that can result from
improper storage of excavated soils;
   C.   Falling hazards due to unprotected excavations;
   D.   Depositing dirt and debris on or near the public road;
   E.   Lack of proper sanitation facilities for building construction workers;
   F.   Improper disposal and containment of litter associated with the
construction;
   G.   Disturbance of the peace of existing neighborhood residents; and
   H.   Hazardous parking and deliveries associated with construction that
disturb the normal traffic flow on local streets or pose risks to other
motorists, pedestrians, and bicyclists. (Ord. 2007-2-6, 2-1-2007)
9-8-2: APPLICABILITY:
The issuance and maintenance of a building permit, as provided in chapter 1,
"Building Code", of this title, shall be conditioned upon compliance with these
regulations. The regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to all:
   A.   New home construction in subdivisions or planned unit developments
approved after 2005; and "in-fill residential development", which is defined as
new construction on lots or resubdivisions of lots located within subdivisions
platted prior to 2005;
   B.   Additions to existing residential projects, where total square footage
of a residence is being increased by fifty percent (50%); and
   C.   Commercial, institutional and industrial construction. (Ord. 2007-2-6,
2-1-2007)
9-8-3: INFORMING THE GENERAL PUBLIC:
   A.   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, a building permit holder
shall install or cause to be installed an informational sign at each new
construction site providing important information relative to the project. The
sign shall:
      1.   Be thirty six inches (36") high by forty eight inches (48") wide;
      2.   Be constructed of a rigid material that is capable of withstanding
weather conditions for the duration of the project;
      3.   Be mounted on two (2) posts which are capable of supporting the
sign, and provide a bottom clearance of not less than thirty six inches (36");
      4.   Be printed on both sides; with a white background and black
lettering, with a minimum height of the letters of two inches (2"), containing
the following information:
         a.   Name of the owner;
         b.   Name of the general contractor, if different from owner;
         c.   Name and phone number of a contact person accountable for
activities on the construction site that will be available twenty four (24)
hours, seven (7) days a week; the designation of a contact can be general in
nature, e.g., project manager;
         d.   Listing the permitted days and hours of work permitted by the
village of Winfield, in accordance with this code; and
         e.   Contain the following wording: "In the event that you have any
questions, please call the Village of Winfield, 630-933-7117";
      5.   Be used to display a copy of the building permit issued by the
village; and/or hold any advisory notices, e.g., stop work order from the
village.
   B.   In the event that the project subject to a permit is part of a multiple
lot development, one informational sign may be installed at the entryway to the
project. A smaller sign with a dimension of eighteen inches by twenty four
inches (18" x 24") shall be placed in front of the lot; which shall contain a
copy of the building permit.
   C.   The permit holder shall attempt to contact owners and/or occupants of
properties within two hundred feet (200') from any border of the development
site to provide the same information required for the information sign. If the
resident is not home, a letter shall be sent by first class mail to the
address. Group meetings with neighbors are encouraged as an effective means of
achieving this obligation. (Ord. 2007-2-6, 2-1-2007)
9-8-4: MATERIALS AND SPOILS STORAGE:
Any building permit application shall include plans depicting areas on the
subject property where storage of spoil materials will not be allowed in order
to mitigate drainage and dust migration problems for adjacent occupied
properties, and how trees will be protected in conformance with the village's
tree preservation regulations in section
10-2-15 of this code if applicable. (Ord. 2007-2-6, 2-1-2007)
9-8-5: ACCESS; FENCING:
   A.   In order to inform the general public, all building sites shall have
signs posted in plain view from public ways indicating "No Trespassing" and any
appropriate warnings.
   B.   Site fencing in accordance with the standards below shall be installed
at each site subject to a building permit to protect the general public which
might venture onto the construction site from fall hazards. The fence shall be
installed around the perimeter of any building activity on the subject
property, in a location and manner approved by the village. All specified
fencing shall be installed not more than seven (7) days or less than four (4)
days before commencement of any excavation work on the subject property and
shall remain in place until the building excavation area no longer poses a fall
hazard. The fencing may be moved to accommodate construction activities, but
must be restored at the end of the workday.
      1.   Commercial, industrial and in-fill single-family residential sites:
The building permit holder shall cause the installation of a temporary six foot
(6') high chainlink safety fence.
      2.   New subdivision/planned unit development, single-family and multi-
family residential sites: The building permit holder shall cause the
installation of a temporary four foot (4') high plastic snow fence, orange in
color. (Ord. 2007-2-6, 2-1-2007)
9-8-6: SITE MANAGEMENT STANDARDS:
The following site management standards shall apply to all work:
   A.   Accessibility, Parking And Loading Standards:
      1.   No pavement or sidewalk shall be unavailable for public use at any
time except when such pavement or sidewalk is removed and replaced. No such
pavement or sidewalk that is removed and replaced shall be out of service for
more than three (3) days unless an acceptable temporary installation of stone
is approved by the village and is made.
      2.   No storage of demolition debris, soil, or construction materials
shall be permitted within ten feet (10') of any paved surface.
      3.   The village may reasonably forbid or limit on street parking for
contractor vehicles in the vicinity of a development site if the village
determines that such parking creates obstructions for sight clearance or
emergency vehicle access.
      4.   The permit holder shall create a construction entry area or drive
perpendicular to the adjacent street, constructed of three inch (3") stone on
which vehicles would operate to deter mud and dirt accumulation on the
contractor's vehicles and equipment within one week of commencement of
construction under a permit.
   B.   Sanitation Facilities: The building permit holder will comply with
United States department of labor, occupational health and safety
administration, 29 CFR 1926.51 safety and health regulations for construction;
occupational safety and health administration, environmental controls; subpart
D - sanitation, as may be amended from time to time. The proposed location of
any portable toilet shall be depicted on site plans submitted at the time of
application for the review and approval of the village manager or his or her
designee.
   C.   Limitations On Noise: No person shall operate or cause to be operated
any radio or other entertainment device at such a volume so as to violate
section
4-4-2, "Excessive, Unnecessary Or Unusually Loud Sound Prohibited", of this
code. Every contractor and every permittee shall be responsible for all actions
of their employees, agents, and subcontractors hereunder, and shall be liable
for all violations of the provisions of this chapter committed by such
employees, agents, or subcontractors.
   D.   Litter Control:
      1.   Litter and debris generated from activity on the subject property
shall be controlled at all times. The building permit holder shall designate a
person regularly present at the subject property as having responsibility to
assure that no litter or debris leaves the subject property and that all litter
and debris is removed or contained on the subject property before the end of
every day.
      2.   The building permit holder must provide a suitably sized and
serviced waste receptacle at each site subject to development following
backfilling of excavations, prior to starting framing, and maintain the same
through construction.
   E.   Street And Sidewalk Cleaning: The building permit holder shall cause
all dirt, mud, gravel, and other debris from the subject property or related to
any work conducted on the subject property to be cleaned regularly every day
from all streets adjoining and in the area of the subject property. Any permit
holder who fails to comply with this requirement shall be subject to receiving
a citation for violating this chapter for each day that the debris remains. In
addition, the village may apply the site management deposit to costs incurred
by the village to remediate the debris.
   F.   Limitations On Deliveries: No construction materials shall be delivered
to any residential zoning lot prior to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or after seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. Monday through Friday, prior to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
or after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on Saturday, and prior to ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M. or after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on holidays. The provisions of this
subsection shall not apply: 1) in the event of a bona fide emergency to which
construction workers must respond, 2) to any work ordered by the village, or 3)
to work required by the village. (Ord. 2007-2-6, 2-1-2007)
9-8-7: SITE MANAGEMENT DEPOSIT:
A developer of a subdivision, planned unit development or single lot in the
case of in-fill projects is required to post with the village a site management
deposit in accordance with the provisions found below:
   A.   Deposit Or Letter Of Credit Requirement; Timing Of Payment; Amount:
When a permit is issued for the construction of a new dwelling, the building
permit holder shall post with the village, at the time of issuance of such
permit, a site management deposit in the amount of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00). Such cash deposit shall be in addition to all other application
and processing fees, costs, escrows, deposits, and performance securities
required by the village.
   B.   Application Of Deposit: The site management deposit shall be held by
the village and shall be applied as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Village Right To Draw On Deposit: The building permit holder shall be
provided written notice and reasonable opportunity to alleviate site management
problems. Upon failure of the building permit holder to act on said notice
within five (5) working days, unless the situation poses an imminent hazard to
the general public and requires immediate attention, the village shall have the
right, at its option, to draw on the site management deposit for the costs,
including, without limitation, legal fees and administrative expenses, incurred
or to be incurred by the village in exercising any of its rights under this
chapter. The village's determination of such costs shall be based either on
costs actually incurred by the village or on the village's reasonable estimates
of costs to be incurred.
   D.   Replenishment Of Deposit: If the village draws on the site management
deposit, then the building permit holder shall replenish the deposit to the
full amount required by this section within ten (10) business days after demand
therefor is made to the building permit holder in writing by the village. Any
failure of the building permit holder to replenish the deposit shall result in
the issuance of a stop work order for the given permit.
   E.   Return Of Unused Deposit: The Village shall return any unused portion
of the site management deposit to the building permit holder within thirty (30)
days after the issuance of an occupancy permit. (Ord. 2007-2-6, 2-1-2007)
9-8-8: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this
chapter, shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code for any offense; a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
2007-2-6, 2-1-2007; amd. per correspondence dated 7-31-2018)
CHAPTER 9
PRIVATE ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Fire Alarm System Performance
9-9-2: Choice Of Fire Alarm Monitoring Systems
9-9-3: Proof Of Performance
9-9-4: Wireless Fire Alarm Transceiver Equipment Installation And Maintenance
9-9-5: Village Fire Alarm Monitoring Fees And Other Charges
9-9-6: Fire Alarm Monitoring Registration
9-9-7: Alarm System Maintenance
9-9-8: Change In Ownership Of Subscriber's Premises
9-9-9: No Warranties Or Representations
9-9-10: Village Is Not An Insurer
9-9-1: FIRE ALARM SYSTEM PERFORMANCE:
The owner of any property required to install a fire alarm system, or any
property owner or subscriber who elects to install a discretionary fire alarm
system, shall install and maintain a system to monitor and transmit activated
premises' alarms, supervisory and trouble signals at a transmission rate to the
Village's Dispatch Center of no more than thirty (30) seconds and proven
technology minimizing the occurrence of false alarms per an alternative private
fire alarm system to the same degree as the Village's wireless system. The
Village Manager or his designee shall review and evaluate the performance
standards for fire alarm monitoring systems to ensure compliance with this
section. No fire alarm monitoring system shall be allowed by the Village
Manager or his designee unless it at all times has a documented or tested
transmission time to the Village's Dispatch Center of thirty (30) seconds or
less and a documented or tested rate of false alarms consistent with the per
false alarm rate average of the Village's wireless alarm system. (Ord. 2018-05-
11, 5-3-2018)
9-9-2: CHOICE OF FIRE ALARM MONITORING SYSTEMS:
   A.   An owner of property, licensee, or subscriber, may elect to:
      1.   Contract with the Village through the Village's contractor to
provide the equipment and operations necessary to comply with section
9-9-1 of this chapter; or
      2.   Provide such service through a private company so long as the
property owner, licensee or subscriber has a private company alarm system that
fully complies with all requirements of section
9-9-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-05-11, 5-3-2018)
9-9-3: PROOF OF PERFORMANCE:
Prior to the installation of the fire alarm monitoring system by a private
company, a subscriber shall register the fire alarm monitoring system with the
Village Manager or his designee providing all technical data to establish
compliance with the minimum performance standards required for the system in
accordance with section
9-9-1 of this chapter. Any system which is installed and fails to meet the
performance standards set forth in section
9-9-1 of this chapter shall have thirty (30) days from date of written notice
from the Village of noncompliance with the foregoing performance standards to
fully comply with the minimum performance standards or shall, immediately after
the thirty (30) days, remove and replace any non-performing fire alarm
monitoring system with a compliant fire alarm monitoring system. (Ord. 2018-05-
11, 5-3-2018)
9-9-4: WIRELESS FIRE ALARM TRANSCEIVER EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE:
The installation and the annual required maintenance, testing and repair of the
Village's wireless radio transceiver at the subscriber's premises will be
completed by the Village's designated contractor, in the case of subscribers to
the Village wireless alarm system, or by the private contractor in the case of
a Village authorized fire alarm monitoring system provided by that private
contractor. Subscribers to the Village's wireless alarm monitoring system will
be advised of the Village's contractor's identity. Subscribers to the Village's
system shall allow the Village's contractor to have access to the radio
transceiver during normal business hours for all necessary and required
installation, annual and necessary maintenance, testing, and repair to ensure
that the system remains Code compliant. Subscribers using a private company
shall allow that private company to have access to the radio transceiver during
normal business hours for all required and necessary installation, annual and
necessary maintenance, testing and repair to ensure that the system remains
Code compliant. For Village fire alarm monitoring system subscribers, the
Village will lease the radio transceiver to the subscriber. The radio
transceiver will remain the property of the Village or its designated
contractor. (Ord. 2018-05-11, 5-3-2018)
9-9-5: VILLAGE FIRE ALARM MONITORING FEES AND OTHER CHARGES:
Upon connection to the Village's fire alarm monitoring system, the subscriber
shall pay the Village an inclusive monitoring and radio fee as set forth in
section
9-1-4, "Fee Schedule", of this Code. All other charges associated with the
connection to the Village's fire alarm monitoring system, installation of
appropriate equipment and maintenance of the equipment shall be those imposed
as set forth in section
9-1-4 of this Code and as may be amended from time to time. Private fire alarm
monitoring fees shall be as determined by the private provider. (Ord. 2018-05-
11, 5-3-2018)
9-9-6: FIRE ALARM MONITORING REGISTRATION:
All connections required by this chapter shall be preceded by a registration of
the system by the subscriber. The alarm registration form, including all of its
conditions, shall be a mandatory requirement and condition for each subscriber.
The registration form shall be exclusively provided by the Village and shall
include a copy of this chapter. The Village's registration form for the Village
wireless alarm system shall include its terms of service and costs. (Ord. 2018-
05-11, 5-3-2018)
9-9-7: ALARM SYSTEM MAINTENANCE:
The installation and the annual required maintenance, testing and repair of all
fire alarm monitoring systems at the subscriber's premises shall be completed
in accordance with applicable codes and ordinances of the Village. While the
Village will repair and maintain its fire alarm monitoring equipment, including
the radio transceiver at the subscriber's location, it will be the
responsibility of the subscriber containing a fire alarm monitoring system to
provide the required annual and periodic testing for all components. (Ord.
2018-05-11, 5-3-2018)
9-9-8: CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP OF SUBSCRIBER'S PREMISES:
A lease, sale or transfer of a property owner's premises shall not relieve the
property owner of the duties and obligations under the terms of this chapter.
In the case that a subscriber vacates a premises having a fire alarm system
with fees due the Village, the owner shall be responsible to pay the delinquent
fees. No re-occupancy of the premises shall be allowed until the delinquent
fees are paid in full. (Ord. 2018-05-11, 5-3-2018)
9-9-9: NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall constitute a representation or warranty that a
fire monitoring alarm system will prevent any loss by fire, burglary, or
otherwise; or that the system will in all cases provide the protection for
which it is installed or intended. The Village and any unit of local government
providing any wireless alarm network services to the Village make no
representations, warranties or promises, either expressed or implied, as to any
matter whatsoever, including without limitation the condition of the equipment,
its merchantability, or its fitness for a particular purpose. A subscriber may
not rely on any representation or warranties by the Village or any unit of
local government providing any wireless alarm network services to the Village,
expressed or implied, and nothing in this chapter or requirements of this
chapter shall be deemed to create any expressed or implied warranty with regard
to the alarm system or any of its components. (Ord. 2018-05-11, 5-3-2018)
9-9-10: VILLAGE IS NOT AN INSURER:
The Village, nor any unit of local government providing any wireless alarm
network services to the Village, is not an insurer under this chapter and the
subscribers assume all risk of loss or damage to the subscriber's premises or
contents thereof. The subscriber shall have the right to purchase whatever
insurance the subscriber requires in order to protect their property and/or
persons from injury or property damage. Neither does this chapter create any
certainty with regard to the response time of any Fire Department or Police
Department should one or both of these departments be dispatched as a result of
a signal being received by the equipment required by this chapter. Nothing in
this chapter waives or releases any and all statutory or common law immunities
or privileges of the Village or any unit of local government providing any
wireless alarm network services to the Village which are specifically reserved.
(Ord. 2018-05-11, 5-3-2018)
CHAPTER 10
VACANT BUILDING AND PROPERTY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Findings, Declaration Of Policy And Purpose
9-10-2: Other Ordinances
9-10-3: Definitions
9-10-4: Reserved
9-10-5: Vacant Building Determination
9-10-6: Appeal Of Code Enforcement Official’s Determination Of Vacant Buildings
9-10-7: Owner’s Obligation To Register Vacant Buildings And Unoccupied
Buildings Acquired Through Mortgage Foreclosure
9-10-8: Mortgage Lender’s Obligation To Register Unoccupied Buildings Acquired
Through Mortgage Foreclosure
9-10-9: Approval Of Plan
9-10-10: Authority To Modify Plan; Right To Appeal
9-10-11: Failure To Comply With Plan
9-10-12: Other Enforcement
9-10-13: Certification
9-10-14: Time Restrictions, Vacant Buildings
9-10-1: FINDINGS, DECLARATION OF POLICY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   From time to time there are structures within the village that are not
in compliance with village regulations, have become a threat to life and
property or are vacant or abandoned. Therefore, the Village Board of the
Village of Winfield makes the following findings and declarations:
      1.   Noncomplying structures must promptly be made safe and secure to
protect the public safety and are declared to be a nuisance subject to the
abatement process set forth in this article.
      2.   Noncomplying structures are dangerous and unsafe in that they are
extremely vulnerable to fire, flooding, collapse or other hazards.
      3.   Noncomplying structures are a blight on their neighborhoods, cause
deterioration and instability in their neighborhoods and have an adverse impact
on other properties.
      4.   Structures that were previously used or occupied and have since
become vacant have a significant and detrimental impact on the local real
estate market.
      5.   Structures that are vacant and not properly secured attract vagrants
and criminals and are prime locations to conduct illegal activities, including
arson and drug use.
      6.   Structures that are vacant and unsecured pose serious threats to the
public's health and safety and therefore are public nuisances.
      7.   Immediate abatement of these hazards or rehabilitation of these
structures is necessary to prevent unsightly blight and the deterioration of
neighborhoods with the consequent adverse impact on the value of adjacent and
nearby properties. Such actions are also necessary to secure the public safety
and to ensure and enhance the vitality and livability of our neighborhoods.
      8.   Communication between owners of noncomplying structures and the
village is essential for effective allocation of public resources and the
maintenance of public health, welfare and safety in regards to such structures.
   B.   The purpose of this article is to establish necessary measures to abate
the public nuisances, blight, negative housing market impact and other harmful
effects associated with noncomplying and vacant structures. (Ord. 2019-08-20,
8-15-2019)
9-10-2: OTHER ORDINANCES:
This article shall not be construed to prevent the enforcement of other
applicable ordinances, codes, legislation, and regulations which prescribe
standards other than those provided herein, and in the event of conflict, the
most restrictive shall apply. (Ord. 2019-08-20, 8-15-2019)
9-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or clearly indicated by the context, the
following terms shall, for the purpose of this article, have the meanings
indicated in this section:
BOARDED BUILDING: A building which has had, in a manner intended to be
temporary or permanent, any or all openings, which openings are windows or
doors which were present for the purpose of light, ventilation or egress, some
materia! whether opaque, solid or transparent, affixed to such openings, from
the interior or exterior of the building, for the purpose of securing or
preventing access or damage to the building or its components.
BUILDING: Any structure occupied or intended for supporting or sheltering any
occupancy.
DANGEROUS BUILDING or STRUCTURE: A building or structure defined as a
"nuisance" in §
9-1-2-1 of this Code, as now existing and adopted or hereafter amended.
OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, firm, or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county, or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
PERSON: Includes a corporation, a partnership, or other entity as well as an
individual.
PREMISES: A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including any structure thereon.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Includes the following:
   1.   The physical condition, or uses of any building, structure or premises
regarded as a public nuisance at common law, under the Illinois Compiled
Statutes, or under this Code;
   2.   Any physical condition, use or occupancy of any premises, structure,
building or appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children,
including, but not limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations,
and unsafe fences or structures;
   3.   Any building which has unsanitary sewerage or plumbing facilities;
   4.   Any building designated by the Code Enforcement Official as unsafe for
human habitation or use;
   5.   Any building which is manifestly capable of being a fire hazard, or
manifestly unsafe or insecure so as to endanger life, limb or property;
   6.   Any building or premises which is unsanitary, or which is littered with
rubbish or garbage, or which has an uncontrolled growth of weeds;
   7.   Any building or structure that is dangerous, in a state of
dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; unsecure; vacant and
the doors, windows, or other openings are boarded up or secured by any means
other than conventional methods used in the design of the building or permitted
for new construction of similar type; damaged by fire to the extent as not to
provide shelter, in danger of collapse or failure; and dangerous to anyone on
or near the premises;
   8.   Any building or structure defined as a "dangerous building"
hereinabove; or
   9.   Any building or structure defined as a "vacant building" hereinbelow.
SECURED BUILDING: A building which has had, in a manner intended to be
temporary or permanent, any or all openings, which openings are windows or
doors which were present for the purpose of light, ventilation or egress, some
material whether opaque, solid or transparent, affixed to such openings, from
the interior or exterior of the building, for the purpose of securing or
preventing access or damage to the building or its components.
UNSECURED BUILDING: A building that is not secured as defined herein at which
any or all openings are locked, including windows or doors.
UNOCCUPIED BUILDING: A building or portion thereof which lacks the habitual
presence of human beings who have a legal right to be on the premises,
including buildings ordered vacated by the Code Enforcement Official pursuant
to authority granted to him/her by this Code. In determining whether a building
is "unoccupied," the Code Enforcement Official may consider these factors,
among others:
   1.   A building at which substantially all lawful residential or business
activity has ceased.
   2.   The percentage of the overall square footage of occupied to unoccupied
space or the overall number of occupied and unoccupied units shall be
considered.
   3.   The building is substantially devoid of contents. The condition and
value of fixtures or personal property in the building are relevant to this
determination.
   4.   The building lacks utility services, i.e., water, sewer, electric or
natural gas.
   5.   The building is the subject of a foreclosure action.
   6.   The building is not actively for sale as part of a contractual
agreement to sell the building, the building lacks "for sale", "for rent" or
similar signage.
   7.   The presence or recurrence of uncorrected code violations.
VACANT BUILDING: A building or portion of a building which is:
   1.   Unoccupied and unsecured;
   2.   Unoccupied and secured by boarding or other similar means for more than
three (3) months;
   3.   Unoccupied and a dangerous structure;
   4.   Declared unsafe for occupancy by the Code Enforcement Official pursuant
to applicable provisions of this Code;
   5.   Unoccupied and containing multiple Village Code violations;
   6.   Unoccupied with the building or its premises having been used for
unlawful activity at any time while unoccupied or at any time during the
previous six (6) months whether occupied or not;
   7.   Declared unsafe for occupancy by the Code Enforcement Official and
unlawfully occupied;
   8.   Unoccupied for over three (3) months and during which time the Code
Enforcement Official has issued an order to correct public nuisance conditions
and same have not been corrected in a code compliant manner; or
   9.   Unoccupied for over six (6) months.
But not including:
Unoccupied buildings which are undergoing construction, renovation, or
rehabilitation and which are in compliance with all applicable ordinances,
codes, legislation, and regulations, and for which construction, renovation or
rehabilitation is proceeding diligently to completion. (Ord. 2019-08-20, 8-15-
2019)
9-10-4: RESERVED:
9-10-5: VACANT BUILDING DETERMINATION:
   A.   Within sixty (60) days after the effective date of this article, the
Code Enforcement Official shall evaluate all buildings in the village he or she
believes to be unoccupied on the effective date of this article and make a
determination for each as to whether the building is a vacant building within
the meaning of this article. The determination shall be in writing and shall
state the factual basis for the determination. For buildings the Code
Enforcement Official determines to be vacant buildings, she/he shall, within
seven (7) days of making that determination, send notice of the written
determination with the factual findings to the last taxpayer of record listed
on the most recent DuPage County tax roll. Said notice of determination shall
be sent certified mail, return receipt requested. Failure of delivery shall not
excuse a person from complying with this article. Any person making such
service shall execute an affidavit attesting to the facts of service. The Code
Enforcement Official shall maintain an affidavit of such mailing for each
notice of determination sent. This procedure shall be followed for all building
evaluations subsequent to the initial 60 day period.
   B.   The Code Enforcement Official shall cause an inspection of the interior
of all vacant buildings to determine compliance with village health and fire
codes.
   C.   The notice of determination shall set a tentative date and time for the
code-compliance inspection of the interior of the vacant building to determine
the extent of compliance with village health and fire codes. After receipt of
the notice of determination, if the owner does not appeal the determination,
the owner shall either confirm the tentative date for the inspection or shall
schedule a new date and time for same. If the owner fails to confirm the
tentative date and time for the inspection or refuses to schedule or permit the
inspection it shall be the responsibility of the village to obtain an
administrative search warrant to accomplish the inspection.
   D.   The village shall charge the owner a fee of five hundred dollars
($500.00) to offset the cost to the village of said inspection. The owner shall
pay the inspection fee to the village within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
bill for same.
   E.   The notice of determination shall contain a statement of the
obligations of the owner of a building determined to be a vacant building, a
copy of the registration form the owner is required to file pursuant to § 7-
1006 and a notice of the owner's right to appeal the determination. (Ord. 2019-
08-20, 8-15-2019)
9-10-6: APPEAL OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL’S DETERMINATION OF VACANT
BUILDINGS:
   A.   An owner of a building determined by the Code Enforcement Official to
be a vacant building as provided for in this article may appeal that
determination to the village manager. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall
be filed with the village manager within fifteen (15) days of the date of
mailing of the notice of determination. The filing of an appeal stays the
owner's obligation to register his or her building as required by § 7-1006. The
appeal shall contain a complete statement of the reasons the owner disputes the
Code Enforcement Official's determination, shall set forth specific facts in
support thereof, and shall include all evidence the owner relies upon to
support the appeal. The village manager shall decide the appeal on the basis of
facts presented by the owner in his or her written appeal and the Code
Enforcement Official's written determination.
   B.   The burden is upon the owner to present sufficient evidence to persuade
the village manager that it is more likely than not that the subject building
is not a vacant building within the meaning of this article.
   C.   The village manager shall send written notice of his or her decision to
the owner within ten (10) days of his or her receipt of the appeal. The village
manager may, but Is not required to, seek additional information from the
owner. The village manager may, upon written notice thereof to the owner, take
no more than ten (10) additional days to decide the appeal if he or she
determines that such additional time is required for consideration of the
appeal.
   D.   An owner who wishes to challenge applicability of this article to his/
her building without the Code Enforcement Official's determination having been
made shall set forth specific facts to support non-applicability in writing to
the Code Enforcement Official. In the event the Code Enforcement Official
determines that the subject building is a vacant building, the owner shall have
the right to appeal the Code Enforcement Official's determination to the
village manager as provided for herein. (Ord. 2019-08-20, 8-15-2019)
9-10-7: OWNER’S OBLIGATION TO REGISTER VACANT BUILDINGS AND UNOCCUPIED
BUILDINGS ACQUIRED THROUGH MORTGAGE FORECLOSURE:
   A.   The owner of a vacant building and a mortgage lender who acquires title
to an unoccupied building shall be required to register same with the Code
Enforcement Official as prescribed below; and the owner of a building who
knows, or from all the facts and circumstances should know, that his or her
building is or has become a vacant building within the meaning of this article
after the effective date of this article or the owner of a building which the
Code Enforcement Official determines at any time to be a vacant building, or
the owner of a building whose appeal from the Code Enforcement Official's
determination has been denied by the village manager, shall take the actions
provided for in this §
9-10-7 within fifteen (15) days after either the date of Code Enforcement
Official's notice of determination or occurrence of the facts which would cause
a reasonable person to believe that the building was a vacant building, or
denial of the appeal, whichever is applicable.
   Registration requirements:
      1.   Register the building with the Code Enforcement Official, on a form
provided by the Code Enforcement Official and pay the two hundred dollar
($200.00) annual non-prorated vacant building registration fee. The form shall
include, as a minimum, the name, street address, and telephone number of the
owner; the case name and number of any litigation pending concerning or
affecting the building, including bankruptcy cases; and the name, street
address, and telephone number of all persons with any legal interest in the
building or the premises. The form shall require the owner to identify a
natural person twenty-one (21) years of age or older who maintains a permanent
address in DuPage County, Illinois to accept service on behalf of the owner
with respect to any notices the Code Enforcement Official sends pursuant to
this article or service of process in any proceeding commenced to enforce any
provision of this article, and file with the Code Enforcement Official on the
registration form, the name, address, telephone number, of said person. A
street address is required. A post office box is not an acceptable address.
      2.   The form shall require the owner to indicate his or her "acceptance
of notice by posting" consenting to service of notices sent or required to be
sent, pursuant to this article, by posting on the building if the owner fails
to renew the registration if required, or maintain as current with the Code
Enforcement Official the information required regarding the person designated
to accept notice and service of process.
   B.   The owner shall renew the vacant building registration each year on the
anniversary date of the first filing for the time the building remains vacant
and pay the required two hundred dollar ($200.00) annual fee; and file an
amended registration within fifteen (15) days of any change in the information
contained in the annual registration. A new registration is required for any
change in ownership whatsoever. The Federal Housing Financing Authority shall
be exempt from paying the fee, but shall comply with all other registration
requirements.
   C.   Registration does not exonerate the owner from compliance with all
applicable codes and ordinances, including this article, nor does it preclude
any of the actions the village is authorized to take pursuant to this article
or elsewhere in the Village Code.
   D.   Inspection: The village shall conduct a comprehensive code-compliance
inspection of the interior of the vacant building and the owner shall pay a
five hundred dollar ($500.00) fee to the village to defray the village's cost
of same within thirty (30) days of the inspection. Such inspection will
determine the extent of compliance with village property maintenance, building,
health, water, sewer and fire codes. The village shall send the inspection
report to the owner within thirty (30) days. Periodic re-inspections shall take
place, as necessary, until code compliance is achieved. Timely code compliance
is required.
   E.   Vacant Building Plan: At the time a building is registered as required
herein, the owner shall submit a vacant building plan. The Code Enforcement
Official may prescribe a form for the plan. If the owner fails to submit the
plan as provided for by this article, the Code Enforcement Official may
determine the plan. The plan shall contain the following as a minimum:
      1.   A plan of action to repair any doors, windows, or other openings
which are boarded up or otherwise secured or covered by any means other than
conventional methods used in the design of the building or permitted for new
construction or similar type. The proposed repair shall result in openings
being secured by conventional methods used in the design of the building or by
methods permitted for new construction of similar type with board removed.
Boarding shall be accomplished with materials and methods described by the Code
Enforcement Official and available from the Code Enforcement Official. The
owner shall maintain the building in an enclosed and secure state until the
building is re-occupied or made available for immediate occupancy. If the owner
demonstrates that securing of the building will provide adequate protection to
the public, the Code Enforcement Official may waive the requirement of an
enclosure.
      2.   For buildings and/or premises which are determined by the Code
Enforcement Official as being or containing public nuisances, as defined in §
9-10-3, then the vacant building/premises plan shall contain a plan of action
to remedy such public nuisance(s).
      3.   A time schedule identifying a date of commencement of repair and
date of completion of repair for each improperly secured opening and nuisance
identified by the Code Enforcement Official.
      4.   When the owner proposes to demolish the vacant building, then the
owner shall submit a plan and time schedule for such demolition.
      5.   A plan of action to maintain the building and/or premises thereof in
conformance with this article.
      6.   A plan of action, with a time schedule, identifying the date the
building will be habitable and occupied or offered for occupancy or sale. The
time schedule shall include date(s) of commencement and completion of all
actions required to achieve habitability. No plan which fails to provide for
compliance with this article or, which will not, as determined by the Code
Enforcement Official, achieve such compliance, within three (3) months, in the
case of a vacant boarded building, and two (2) years, in the case of a vacant,
unbounded, and code-compliant building will be approved, except that the Code
Enforcement Official may approve an extension of the time during which the
building will be unoccupied beyond two (2) years to a date certain but then
only based upon clear and documented evidence of good cause shown by the owner
as determined by the Code Enforcement Official.
   F.   All premises upon which unoccupied or vacant buildings, are located and
the exteriors shall at all times be maintained in compliance with the Village
Code.
   G.   Exterior lighting shall be maintained according to standards
established by the Code Enforcement Official and available from the Code
Enforcement Official.
   H.   All ground floor windows facing street frontage, including, but not
limited to, all display windows in unoccupied or vacant commercial buildings
shall be kept in a well maintained and clean condition and shall be covered on
the interior side in a professionally finished manner with an opaque window
covering material manufactured for that purpose and approved by the Code
Enforcement Official, or in the case of display windows, such windows shall be
kept in a well maintained and clean condition and the display area shall be
enclosed with a professionally finished backdrop, floor, side walls and ceiling
all of which shall be kept in a well maintained and clean condition and shall
be well lighted from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. each day. Photographs, paintings
and other works of art or other tasteful forms of decoration may be
professionally displayed in these properly enclosed clear glass display
windows. If opaque window covering material is used, a one-inch by one-inch
clear glass opening through which the interior space is clearly visible shall
be maintained at standing eye level along one (1) edge of one (1) such window.
   I.   Security: On written notice of the Code Enforcement Official, the owner
shall provide bonded, licensed, and insured security guard service at the
building between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Such service shall remain
in place until the Code Enforcement Official gives written notice that the
service is no longer required. Such service shall be required when the Code
Enforcement Official makes a written determination that the vacant building
constitutes a fire hazard, is otherwise dangerous to human life or the public
welfare, or involves illegal or improper use, occupancy, or maintenance, under
such conditions that securing the building is insufficient to prevent the
actual or threatened harm. (Ord. 2019-08-20, 8-15-2019)
9-10-8: MORTGAGE LENDER’S OBLIGATION TO REGISTER UNOCCUPIED BUILDINGS ACQUIRED
THROUGH MORTGAGE FORECLOSURE:
The obligation to register buildings shall extend to mortgage lenders that have
obtained title to unoccupied buildings through a mortgage foreclosure action.
   A.   Mortgage lenders shall register unoccupied buildings with the Code
Enforcement Official within fifteen (15) days of obtaining title to same.
   B.   The registration obligation of mortgage lenders under §
9-10-7 shall be limited to providing the Code Enforcement Official with the
same information required under §
9-10-7(a) on the registration form prescribed by the Code Enforcement Official.
   C.   Except as provided in §
9-10-8(e) below, mortgage lenders prior to acquiring title shall not be
responsible for paying the two hundred dollar ($200.00) registration fee and
shall not be required to comply with §
9-10-7B. through I.
   D.   An amended registration form shall be filed in accordance with §
9-10-7(b) within fifteen (15) days of any change in the information provided in
any registration form provided hereunder.
   E.   If such unoccupied, registered building is later determined to have
become a "vacant building" as defined in § 9-10-3, then such building and
building owner shall be required to comply with all of the provisions of § 9-
10-7. (Ord. 2019-08-20, 8-15-2019)
9-10-9: APPROVAL OF PLAN:
   A.   The Code Enforcement Official shall review the proposed vacant building
plan in accordance with the standards below. The Code Enforcement Official
shall send notice to the owner of the vacant building of his or her
determination.
   B.   In considering the appropriateness of a vacant building plan, the Code
Enforcement Official shall include the following in his or her consideration
and shall make written findings as to each:
      1.   The purposes of this article and intent of the village board to
minimize the time a building is boarded or otherwise vacant.
      2.   The effect of the building and the proposed plan on adjoining
property.
      3.   The length of time the building has been vacant.
      4.   The presence of any public nuisances on the property.
      5.   The likelihood that the plan or portlon(s) thereof will prevent or
ameliorate the condition it is designed to address. (Ord. 2019-08-20, 8-15-
2019)
9-10-10: AUTHORITY TO MODIFY PLAN; RIGHT TO APPEAL:
The Code Enforcement Official shall, upon notice to the vacant building owner,
have the right to modify the vacant building plan by modifying the dates of
performance, the proposed methods of action, or by imposing additional
requirements consistent with this article he or she deems necessary to protect
the public health, safety or welfare. (Ord. 2019-08-20, 8-15-2019)
9-10-11: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLAN:
Failure to have an approved plan within thirty (30) days of filing the
registration form or failure to comply with the approved plan shall constitute
a violation of this article subjecting the owner of the building to penalties
as provided in this article and to any remedies the village may avail itself of
as provided for herein and elsewhere in the Village Code, including, but not
limited to, an action to compel correction of health or fire code violations.
(Ord. 2019-08-20, 8-15-2019)
9-10-12: OTHER ENFORCEMENT:
The registration of a vacant building shall not preclude action by the village
to demolish or to take other action against the building pursuant to other
provisions of this article, the Village Code, or other applicable legislation.
(Ord. 2019-08-20, 8-15-2019)
9-10-13: CERTIFICATION:
A certificate of compliance with this vacant buildings article issued by the
Code Enforcement Official and payment in full of all fees imposed pursuant to
this article are required prior to any occupancy of a vacant building. (Ord.
2019-08-20, 8-15-2019)
9-10-14: TIME RESTRICTIONS, VACANT BUILDINGS:
It is the policy of the village that boarding is a temporary solution to
prevent unauthorized entry into a vacant building and that boarded buildings
are a public nuisance. A vacant building may not remain boarded longer than
three (3) months unless an extension of that time is part of a plan approved by
the Code Enforcement Official.
A vacant building which is otherwise code-compliant and secure as determined by
the Code Enforcement Official on the basis of police reports, citizen
complaints, and other information considered reliable by reasonable persons,
may not remain vacant for more than two (2) years and must have an approved
plan for occupancy, sale, demolition, or other disposition of the building in
place within the timeframes established in this article, except as otherwise
provided herein. (Ord. 2019-08-20, 8-15-2019)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose; Accomplishing Purposes
10-1-3: Severability
10-1-4: Rules And Definitions
10-1-5: Lot And Yard Illustrations
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and referred to as the WINFIELD ZONING ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-1-2: PURPOSE; ACCOMPLISHING PURPOSES:
The purpose of this title is to regulate the use of land and establish
standards that implement the comprehensive development plan and other adopted
plans, policies and codes for the village, as amended from time to time.
   A.   Furthermore, this title is adopted for the following purposes:
      1.   To promote the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience,
and general welfare.
      2.   To secure adequate light, pure air, and safety from fire and other
dangers.
      3.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
village.
      4.   To avoid or lessen congestion in the public streets.
      5.   To lessen or avoid hazards to persons and damage to property
resulting from the accumulation or runoff of storm or flood waters.
   B.   To these ends, this title is designed to set up and accomplish certain
standards and objectives as follows:
      1.   To divide the entire village into districts and restricting and
regulating therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of buildings, structures and land, whether for residence, business,
industrial or other specified uses.
      2.   To prevent the overcrowding of land through regulating and limiting
the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be erected as related to land
area.
      3.   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on or
along streets, alleys or property lines.
      4.   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas, and
regulating and determining the area of open spaces within and surrounding such
buildings.
      5.   To establish standards to which buildings or structures therein
shall conform.
      6.   To promote buildings, structures or uses that are compatible with
the created herein districts.
      7.   To encourage additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures to comply with the restrictions and limitations imposed
hereunder.
      8.   To provide for the gradual elimination of those uses, buildings and
structures which are incompatible with the character of the districts in which
they are made or located.
      9.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
      10.   To prescribe the penalties for the violation of the provisions of
this title or of any amendment hereto.
      11.   Nothing contained in this title shall be deemed to be a consent,
license or permit to use any property or to locate, construct or maintain any
building, structure or facility, or to carry on any trade, industry, occupation
or activity. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-1-3: SEVERABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the village board of trustees that
the several provisions of this title are separable in accordance with the
following:
   A.   Provisions Of Title: If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge any provision of this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not
affect any other provision of this title not specifically included in said
judgment.
   B.   Property Application: If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge invalid the application of any provision of this title to a particular
property, building or structure, such judgment shall not affect the application
of said provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-1-4: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this title, the rules and definitions contained in this
section shall be observed and applied except when the context clearly indicates
otherwise:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular;
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
the present;
   C.   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and not discretionary, while
the word "may" is permissive;
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter;
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of this
title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition thereof,
and any word appearing in parentheses, between a word and its definition
herein, shall be construed in the same sense as that word;
   F.   All measured distances and values, expressed in feet, shall be to the
nearest integral number, if a fraction is one-half (1/2) the number or more,
the integral number next above shall be taken; and
   G.   The word "person" shall include, but not be limited to, a firm,
association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation as well
as an individual.
The following words and terms, wherever they occur in this title, shall be
construed as herein defined:
ABANDONMENT: An action to give up one's rights or interest in property.
ABUTTING/ADJOINING: To physically touch, border upon, or share a common
property line or district line.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A. An "accessory building or use" is one which:
      1.    Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;
         2.    Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served;
         3.    Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of
occupants of the principal building or principal use served; and
         4.    Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served with the single exception of such accessory off street
parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the building or use served.
   B.   An "accessory use" includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the
following:
       1.    A garden house and private greenhouse;
       2.    A shed, garage or building for domestic storage;
        3.    Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock or use on the
same lot with any retail service or business use, unless such storage is
excluded by the district regulations;
         4.    Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities
on the same lot or parcels of ground with such activities unless such storage
is excluded by the district regulations;
         5.    Private swimming pool for use by the occupant and his guests;
        6.    Off street motorcar parking areas, and loading and unloading
facilities;
         7.    Signs (other than advertising signs) as permitted and regulated
in each district incorporated herein; and
         8.    Carports.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land having an area of one acre or more which
has not heretofore been subdivided or platted.
ADULT BUSINESS/USE: Any business which has as its primary purpose the selling,
renting or showing of sexually explicit materials. Said use shall include
gentleman's clubs and other live entertainment involving partial or full
nudity.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act. (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
ALLEY: A public way or private way, at the rear or side of property,
permanently reserved as a secondary means of access to abutting property. A
street shall not be considered an alley.
ALTERATION: A change in size, shape, character, occupancy or use of a building
or structure.
AMUSEMENT ARCADE (GAME ROOM): Any establishment containing five (5) or more
mechanical, electronic and/or coin operated amusement devices and/or games
operated for the amusement of the general public whether or not operated as a
principal use.
AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any machine, game, table or device which is designed,
intended or used as entertainment, and may be operated by the public upon
insertion of a coin or token, or the use of which is made available for any
valuable consideration and is not considered a gaming device by the Illinois
Compiled Statutes. Not included within the definition of "amusement device" are
such devices as food, soft drink or cigarette vending machines.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a two-family or a multiple-family
structure which is arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single
housekeeping unit. Complete kitchen facilities (sink, stove, refrigerator and
storage facilities), permanently installed, must always be included for each
apartment.
AREA, GROSS: See definition of Lot Area.
AUDITORIUM: A room, hall or building made a part of a church, theater, school,
recreation building or other building assigned to the gathering of people as an
audience to hear lectures, plays and other presentations.
AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY (CAR WASH), SELF-SERVICE OR ROLL OVER: A building or portion
thereof containing facilities for washing automobiles, using self-service spray
devices or mechanical brushes, but which do not have a conveyor system for
moving automobiles through the washing facilities.
AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY (CAR WASH), TUNNEL WITH CONVEYOR: Any drive- through or
drive-in facility where motor vehicles are washed with the use of a conveyor
and blower or other cleaning devices.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or
damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame or
fender straightening or repair; painting or finishing of vehicles; or any type
of reconstruction and painting services involving the use of potentially toxic
and/or odorous materials. A major automobile repair use does not include an
automobile service station component, as defined by this title.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental automobile, motorcycle, pickup truck and
other small truck repair, or replacement of parts and motor service to such
vehicles, but not including any operation specified under "automobile repair,
major", as defined by this title.
AUTOMOBILE SALES: The use of any building, land or other facility primarily for
the display and sale of new or used automobiles including pickup trucks, vans,
trailers or recreation vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION, CONVENIENCE RETAIL SALES, INCLUDING MINIMART: An
automobile fueling station that offers or includes the retail sale of
prepackaged, nonprescription drugs and convenience type food items as a primary
use and does not include either a major or minor automobile repair component,
as defined by this title. Such uses typically provide parking spaces to allow
customers to shop within the retail component of said station.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION (GAS STATION): Any building or portion thereof or
premises used for dispensing or offering for sale at retail of any automotive
fuels or oils, having pumps and storage tanks thereon, or where batteries,
tires, accessories and other small minor services are sold or rendered.
Automobile service stations do not include open sales lots or public garages as
defined herein.
AWNING: Any structure entirely supported by the wall to which it is attached or
extending from a building entrance and which has a frame covered by a temporary
material and/or which can be retracted against the wall by which it is
supported.
BANKS AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS: Commercial banks and other similar financial
institutions.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building located partly underground but having less
than half its clear floor to ceiling height below the average finished ground
grade at the exterior building walls.
BED AND BREAKFAST: An operator occupied residence providing accommodations for
a charge to the public with no more than five (5) guestrooms for rent, in
operation for more than ten (10) nights in a twelve (12) month period.
Breakfast may be provided to the guests only. Bed and breakfast establishments
do not include motels, hotels, boarding houses, or food service establishments.
BED AND BREAKFAST GUESTROOM: A sleeping room intended to serve no more than two
(2) transient adult guests per night.
BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATOR: The owner of a bed and breakfast establishment, or
the owner's agent, who is required by state law to reside in the bed and
breakfast establishment.
BEDROOM: Any room other than a living room, dining room, kitchen, bathroom,
utility room or family room, for the purpose of this title, shall be considered
a bedroom.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of one or more
streets and public parks or other permanent public open space, cemeteries,
railroad rights of way, shorelines of waterways and other permanent open spaces
or corporate boundary lines.
BOARDING HOUSE: A residential building or portion thereof, not qualifying as a
bed and breakfast establishment as defined by state law, that contains lodging
rooms for the accommodation of two (2) or more persons, who are not members of
the keeper's family, for an unspecified length of stay. Lodging or lodging in
combination with meals, including lunch and dinner, may be provided in exchange
for compensation. Boarding houses do not provide meals to nonboarders and do
not include establishments licensed by the state as motels, hotels, apartment
hotels or restaurants.
BUILDABLE AREA: The area of a lot remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum
bulk requirements have been met.
BUILDING: Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the
land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or
by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or openings, and
which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels. A building is also a structure from which
personal goods and/or services are offered.
Any structures with interior areas not normally accessible for human use such
as gas holders, oil tanks, water tanks, grain elevators, coal bunkers, oil
cracking towers and other similar structures are not considered as buildings.
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space or from other buildings or other structures by a permanent
roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows and normal
entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same zoning lot.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level or its
equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building
to the highest elevation of the roof in the case of a slant or flat roof, to
the deck line of a mansard roof, and to the mean height level between eaves and
ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof; provided, that where buildings are set
back from the street line, the height of the building may be measured from the
average elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building.
BUILDING LINE: The line which represents the required minimum distance from the
street right of way line, or any other property line, that establishes the area
within which the principal structure must be erected or placed. Also known as
setback line.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: Any building which does not conform to the regulations
of this title prescribing the use, required yards, coverage, height and
setbacks, minimum required spacing between buildings on a single lot, and
minimum required usable open space for the district in which the building is
located.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit by the village for the construction, alteration,
removal or demolition of a building or structure within the village.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which the principal use of the
zoning lot on which it is located is conducted.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: Any building or structure not permanently affixed to the
land. Such uses include, but are not limited to, the following: temporary real
estate offices and model homes related to new housing developments, circus or
carnival tents and booths, and stages for the performance of music and/or other
live entertainment.
BULK: A composite characteristic of a given building as located upon a given
zoning lot; not definable as a single quantity, but involving all of the
following characteristics:
   A.   Ground floor area and height of buildings;
   B.   Location of exterior walls of buildings or structures at all levels in
relation to lot lines, streets or to other buildings or structures;
   C.   Gross floor area of the building in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio), all open spaces allocated to the building; and
   D.   The amount of lot area and lot width provided per dwelling unit.
CANOPY: A structure, other than an awning, made of metal or other material with
frames attached to a building or self-supporting and carried by a frame
supported by the ground or permanent hard surfaced area.
CARGO CONTAINER: A standardized, reusable vessel, designed without an axle or
wheels, that was originally, specifically, or formerly designed for or used in
the packing, shipping, movement or transportation of freight, articles, goods
or commodities, and/or designed for or capable of being mounted on a chassis or
bogie for movement by truck trailer or loaded on a ship.
CARPORT: An open sided, roofed automobile shelter, formed by the extension of
the roof from the side of a building.
CELLAR: The portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor to ceiling height below the
average finished ground grade at the exterior building walls.
CEMETERY: A parcel of land dedicated to, and a portion of which is being used
for, the interment of human remains. A cemetery may include administration
buildings, chapels, crematoriums and maintenance shops.
CLINIC, ANIMAL: See definition of Veterinary Clinic.
CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL: An establishment where patients are admitted for
examination and treatment by one or more physicians, or dentists, psychologists
or social workers, and where patients are not lodged overnight.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: A nonprofit association of persons, who are bona fide
members paying dues, which owns, hires or leases, and is restricted to members
and their guests. Such uses shall not include adult business/uses and
gentleman's clubs, as defined by this title.
CLUSTER SUBDIVISION: A form of development in which individual lots are
clustered, grouped or arranged so as to achieve a more flexible site design for
the purpose of providing more usable open space and protecting sensitive
natural areas and features.
COMMERCIAL OR CONSTRUCTION TRAILER: A vehicle of two (2) wheels or more,
without motive power in operation, designed for carrying persons or property in
the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, or construction
trade, for hire or not for hire, towed or hauled by another motorized vehicle,
so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle, and
properly licensed to operate on the public roads.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: A vehicle properly licensed to operate on the public roads,
exceeding a maximum gross weight of eight (8) tons (classes D through Z);
designed, used, or maintained primarily for the transportation of property or
persons for pecuniary gain by the owner of the vehicle or remuneration of the
operator.
COMMON OWNERSHIP: That degree of ownership, whether legal or equitable, which
singly or in combination allows the same person or persons, entity or entities,
to control the use of adjoining lots.
COMMUNITY CENTER: A building or other facility used for recreational, social,
educational and/or cultural activities that is open to the public or a
designated segment of the public and is owned and operated by a public or
nonprofit agency. See definitions of Recreation Facility, Public and Recreation
Facility, Institutional.
COMPREHENSIVE (DEVELOPMENT) PLAN 1 : The long range plan for the growth and
development of the village and its planning area, including graphic and written
materials, as formally adopted and amended from time to time by the village
board.
CONDOMINIUM: A form of real estate ownership in which designated units or
volumes of space are owned by individual homeowners who, by virtue of their
unit ownership, have joint use of, interest in and ownership of halls,
entranceways, service facilities, lands and such other improvements as may be
included in the condominium declaration required by the condominium property
act of the state of Illinois 2 .
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT: Mechanized equipment used in the construction trade,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the following: backhoe, end loader,
bulldozer, skid steer loader, trencher, aerial lift, forklift, dump truck,
water truck, landscaping equipment, window washing, tree service equipment,
tanker, crane, grader, generator, air compressor or cement mixer.
COOPERATIVE: The mutual ownership of property by shareholders in which title to
the land and building is held by a corporation.
COURT, INNER: An open unoccupied space surrounded on all sides by walls, or by
walls and a lot line.
COURT, OUTER: An open unoccupied space opening onto a street, alley or yard.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of the building measured
at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than one street,
the "curb level" shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the center
of the front of each street. Where no curb elevation has been established, the
mean level of the land immediately adjacent to the building shall be considered
the "curb level".
DAYCARE FACILITY: An institution or place in which are received children or
adults requiring assisted living services for part or all of a day but not
later than nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
DAYCARE FACILITY, BUSINESS: A daycare facility which is located other than in
an owner occupied single-family residence or which employs paid staff living
outside a residence in which such daycare facility is located. The term
business daycare facility includes, but is not limited to, the following:
nursery schools, childcare centers, geriatric care centers, day nurseries,
kindergartens and play groups, but does not include bona fide kindergartens or
nursery schools operated by public or private elementary or secondary school
systems, or nursing homes.
DAYCARE FACILITY, HOME: An owner occupied single-family residence used on a
regular basis for daycare facility purposes for a maximum of eight (8) children
or adults requiring assisted living services. Said maximum does not include the
owner family's natural, foster or adopted family members permanently living
within the residence. A home daycare facility shall not be considered a "home
occupation", as defined by this title. However, a home daycare facility which
employs paid staff from outside the residence is a business daycare facility,
as defined by this title.
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of a sound are
calibrated in decibels.
DISTRICT: See definition of Zoning Districts.
DRIVE-THROUGH/DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: A business that is operated for the sale
and purchase of food, other goods and/or services or entertainment and that is
designed and equipped so as to allow patrons to be served or accommodated while
remaining in their automobiles.
DRIVEWAY: A private road which provides access to a lot or to a use located on
such lot from a public way.
DWELLING: A residential building or portion thereof that is used exclusively
for human habitation, but not including hotels, motels, boarding houses,
rooming houses, nursing homes, tourist homes or trailers.
DWELLING, ATTACHED: A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling at one or
more sides by a party wall or walls.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space and
is not connected to any other dwelling unit by roof, walls or porches on the
same lot.
DWELLING GROUP: Two (2) or more one-family, two-family or multiple-family
dwellings, or boarding or lodging houses, located on one zoning lot but not
including mobile homes or motels.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed or altered
for occupancy by three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling containing one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED OR TWO-FAMILY: A building on a single lot
containing two (2) dwelling units, each of which, except for sharing a common
stairwell or exterior to both dwelling units, is completely separated from the
other by either an unpierced wall extending from ground to roof or an unpierced
ceiling and floor connecting the exterior walls.
DWELLING, TOWNHOME: A single-family dwelling, in a row of at least three (3)
such units, in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the
outside, no unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated from
all other units by one or more common fire resistant walls.
DWELLING UNIT: A group of rooms constituting all or parts of a dwelling which
are arranged, designed, used or intended for use exclusively as living quarters
for one family. (Complete single kitchen facilities, permanently installed,
shall always be included for each "dwelling unit".)
EASEMENT: Land which has been designated by lawful agreement between the owner
or owners of the land and a person or persons for a specific use only by such
person or persons.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION: Public, parochial, charitable or nonprofit junior
college, college or university, other than trade or business schools, including
instructional and recreational uses with or without living quarters, dining
rooms, restaurants, heating plants and other incidental facilities for
students, teachers and employees.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room, together
with one of the following: bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets and/or dining
alcove directly off the principal room, provided such dining alcove does not
exceed one hundred twenty five (125) square feet in area.
ELECTRIC SUBSTATION: A terminal at which electric energy is received from the
transmission system and is delivered to other elements of the transmission
system and generally to the local distribution system.
ESTABLISHMENT, BUSINESS: A building structure, or land used in whole or in part
as a place of business, the ownership or management of which is separate and
distinct from the ownership or management of any other place of business
located on the same or other lot.
FAMILY: Any number of persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or, a
group of not more than two (2) persons unrelated by blood, marriage or
adoption.
FENCE, OPEN: A fence, including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed so that the surface area of any segment of such fence contains at
least fifty percent (50%) open spaces, as compared to solid materials.
FENCE, SOLID: A fence, including solid entrance and exit gates, which
effectively conceals from viewers in or on adjoining properties and street, the
materials stored and/or the activities and operations conducted behind it.
FLAG LOT: See definition of Lot, Flag.
FLOODWATER (STORMWATER) MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: The DuPage County stormwater
management ordinance, as amended from time to time, in conjunction with titles
11 and 12 of this code.
FLOOR AREA: For the purposes of determining the floor area ratio, conversions
of existing structures and maximum size of business establishments' floor area,
is the sum of the horizontal area of floor space contained in all floors
(including a basement floor but not including a cellar floor) of a building or
buildings on a lot measured in square feet from the exterior faces of the
exterior walls of each building, or from the centerline of party walls
separating two (2) buildings. Such floor area shall also include:
   A.   Space devoted to elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
   B.   Floor space used for mechanical equipment when the equipment such as
bulkheads, water tanks and cooling towers, is located on the roof, whether or
not such equipment is in the open or enclosed;
   C.   Floor space in that part of a half story where headroom is seven feet
ten inches (7'10") or more in height;
   D.   Floor space devoted to interior balconies, mezzanines and enclosed
porches;
   E.   Floor space devoted to accessory uses in the principal building and in
the accessory building or buildings; and
   F.   Floor space devoted to enclosed off street parking and off street
loading.
FLOOR AREA (For The Purpose Of Determining Off Street Parking And Off Street
Loading): For the purpose of determining off street parking and off street
loading requirements, is the sum of the gross horizontal area of the several
floors of the building or portion thereof devoted to a use requiring off street
parking or loading. This area shall include accessory storage areas located
within selling or working space such as counters, racks or closets, and any
basement floor area devoted to retailing activities, to the production or
processing of goods, or to business or professional offices.
However, floor area, for the purposes of determining off street parking spaces,
shall not include floor area devoted primarily to storage purposes (except as
otherwise noted herein); nor floor area devoted to off street parking or
loading spaces, including also floor area for ramps, aisles and maneuvering
space; nor cellar floor area other than area devoted to merchandising
activities, to the production or processing of goods, or to business or
professional offices.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The numerical value obtained through dividing the gross floor
area of a building or buildings by the net lot area on which such building or
buildings are located.
FREQUENCY: The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave, measuring the
pitch of the resulting sound.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building, including a carport, which is intended for and used for storing of
not more than three (3) passenger vehicles of the family or families resident
upon the premises, and in which no business, service or industry connected
directly or indirectly with the automotive vehicles is carried on; provided,
that not more than one-half (1/2) of the space may be rented for the private
passenger vehicles of persons not resident of the premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any building where automotive vehicles are painted, repaired,
rebuilt, reconstructed or stored for compensation.
GARAGE, STORAGE: A building or premises used for housing only motor vehicles
pursuant to previous arrangements and not by transients; and where no equipment
or parts are sold and vehicles are not rebuilt, serviced, repaired, hired or
sold; except, that fuel, grease or oil may be dispensed within the building to
vehicles stored therein.
GENTLEMAN'S CLUB: See definition of Adult Business/Use.
GRADE: The elevation of the ground level as follows:
   A.   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the elevation of
the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the streets.
   B.   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the average
of the elevations of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining the
streets.
   C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building.
Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet (5') from a
street line is to be considered as adjoining the street. Where no sidewalk
exists, the grade shall be established by the Winfield building commissioner.
GROSS DENSITY: The ratio between total number of dwelling units on a zoning lot
and total lot area in acres.
GROUND FLOOR AREA: The lot area covered by a building, measured from the
exterior faces of exterior walls, but excluding open porches or terraces,
garages or carports.
GROUP CARE HOME: A residential dwelling, maintained as a single housekeeping
unit occupied primarily by persons participating in a counseling, habilitation
or rehabilitation program, including developmentally disabled persons,
recovering alcoholics, the mentally ill, the elderly, or other persons entitled
to protection under the provisions of the fair housing act (42 USC 3601 et
seq.). The group care home shall provide a program structured to meet the
social, habilitative, and respite needs of persons residing therein, in a
residential community setting. Prior to admitting residents, the group care
home shall comply with applicable licensing standards of the appropriate
federal, state, or local agencies and may house such staff persons as may be
required to meet the standards of the licensing agencies. The number of
occupants of a group care home may range from nine (9) to a maximum of fifteen
(15), but only as a special use. When a group care home contains less than nine
(9) occupants, the group care home shall be a permitted use and shall comply
with the following standards:
   A.   The sponsoring agency shall demonstrate eligibility or receipt of a
state license to operate a group care home at the requested location.
   B.   The sponsoring agency shall be licensed by the state of Illinois to
operate community residences.
   C.   The proposed group care home shall be located in accordance with
distance requirements of this title and conform to all other applicable village
codes and ordinances.
   D.   The sponsoring agency shall obtain a letter approving occupancy from
the village manager certifying that all codes and standards have been
satisfied.
The group care home shall comply with the bulk regulations, parking
requirements, and other requirements and standards applicable to residential
uses. A foster care home shall not be classified as a group care home, unless
it fails to meet the definition of "family" contained in this section.
HELISTOP: An area or facility, located at ground level or incorporated within
(or on top of) a structure, that is licensed by the appropriate federal or
state agencies, and is designed and used solely for the landing, loading and
takeoff of helistop or dirigible aircraft. A helistop may also include
auxiliary facilities such as parking areas, waiting areas and fueling and
maintenance equipment.
HOME BUSINESS: See definition of Home Occupation.
HOME BUSINESS OFFICE: A special use home occupation with not more than one
employee or assistant that works on a regular basis within the residence or
residential accessory structure containing the home occupation and does not
live within said principal residence.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any activity or trade carried out for profit by a resident of
a dwelling that can be conducted as an incidental, and accessory use to the
resident's dwelling consistent with the limits of section
10-2-13 of this title.
HOSPITAL OR SANATORIUM: An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and
operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care, of three (3) or
more nonrelated individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity
or other abnormal physical or mental conditions.
HOTEL: A building containing lodging rooms, a common entrance lobby, halls and
stairway; and where each lodging room does not have a doorway opening directly
to the outdoors except for emergencies; and where more than fifty percent (50%)
of the lodging rooms are for rent, with or without meals, to transient guests
for a period of less than thirty (30) days.
HOTEL, APARTMENT: A hotel in which at least fifty percent (50%) of the hotel
accommodations are for occupancy by permanent guests (30 days or more).
IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE: The part or percent of the lot or yard occupied by
buildings, structures and impervious surfaces, including accessory buildings or
pavements.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any material that reduces or prevents the absorption of
stormwater into previously undeveloped land.
JUNKYARD: An open area where waste, used or secondhand materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including, but
not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires and
bottles. A junkyard includes an auto wrecking yard, but does not include uses
carried on entirely within enclosed buildings.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot, structure, building or premises, or portion
thereof, on which dogs, cats or other domestic animals are housed, groomed,
bred, boarded, traded or sold for a fee or compensation.
KENNEL, NONCOMMERCIAL: Any lot, structure, building or premises or portion
thereof, in which more than four (4) dogs, or more than four (4) cats or other
domestic animals over four (4) months of age are kept on a regular basis or for
a period extending beyond two (2) weeks. Such animals shall not be housed or
fed in exchange for a fee or compensation.
KITCHEN: A room or place, including at least a refrigerator, range and sink,
for the cooking and preparation of food.
LABORATORY, RESEARCH: A facility for scientific research, investigation,
testing or experimentation, but not primarily for the manufacture, assembly,
packaging or sale of products.
LAUNDERETTE: A business that provides coin operated, self- service, such as
washing, drying, dry cleaning, ironing facilities; providing that:
   A.   Not more than four (4) persons, including owners, are employed on the
premises; and
   B.   No pick up or delivery service is maintained.
LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE OR BERTH, OFF STREET: An open, hard surfaced area
of land, other than a street or a public way, the principal use of which is for
the standing, loading and unloading of motor vehicles, tractors and trailers,
to avoid undue interference with public streets and alleys.
LODGING: See definition of Boarding House.
LOT: A piece of land having fixed boundaries that is recorded as a zoning lot,
as defined by this title. It is not necessarily a lot of record.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lot lines, as determined by multiplying the average lot depth by the mean lot
width. (See illustrations in section
10-1-5 of this chapter.)
LOT AREA, NET: The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot,
exclusive of any portion of existing street and alley rights of way or access
easements.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which does not exceed one hundred thirty
five degrees (135°).
LOT COVERAGE: That percentage of a lot which, when viewed directly from above,
would be covered by a building or buildings or any part thereof, excluding open
steps, terraces and cornices projecting not more than 0.76 meters (30 inches).
Excludes sheds and other accessory structures under one hundred twenty (120)
square feet. See also definitions of Lot Coverage, Driveway and Lot Coverage,
Accessory Structures.
LOT COVERAGE, ACCESSORY STRUCTURES: That percentage of lot coverage that is
covered by accessory structures.
LOT COVERAGE, DRIVEWAY: That percentage of a lot covered by driveways and
service walks.
LOT DEPTH: The mean distance from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
LOT, FLAG: A lot where the buildable area is not fronting on or abutting a
public road and where access from the lot to the public road is by means of a
narrow access strip. See section
10-1-5 of this chapter.
LOT FRONTAGE: The distance measured between side lot lines of a lot at the
street right of way. If the side lot lines do not intersect the street right of
way, the lot frontage shall be only that portion of the lot line abutting the
street that coincides with the street right of way. For an arced lot line, the
lot frontage shall be the internal chord dimension.
LOT INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except, that where any portion of any lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the established or existing
street or alley line.
LOT LINE, CORNER SIDE: The boundary of a corner lot that abuts a street right
of way but is not the front lot line.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary line of any lot which is along an existing or
dedicated street lot line and which is established as a front lot line on the
plat of record filed by the owner, subdivider or builder. (On a corner lot at
the intersection of 2 streets, the front lot line shall be the shorter of the 2
lot lines abutting a street.)
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or is
approximately, parallel to the front lot line. If the rear lot line is less
than ten feet (10') in length, or if the line forms a point at the rear, the
rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line ten feet (10') in length within the
lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: An area of land that is designated as a separate platted
subdivision lot in a subdivision plat prepared in accordance with the plat act
and recorded in the office of the DuPage County recorder of deeds.
LOT OF RECORD, NONCONFORMING: A nonconforming lot of record that was created by
a plat or deed recorded at a time when the creation of a lot of such size,
shape, depth, and width at such location would not have been prohibited by any
ordinance or other regulation.
A nonconforming lot of record cannot be created by the sale or transfer of
property that results in the creation of a nonconforming lot of record or that
increases the degree of nonconformity of any existing legal nonconforming lot
of record.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot where the street side lot line is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2)
substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot. On a through lot,
both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines, but in the case of two (2)
or more contiguous through lots, there shall be a common front lot line.
LOT, UNIMPROVED: A parcel or area of land prior to development that is
essentially devoid of buildings, structures or paved areas.
LOT WIDTH: The distance between the side lot lines of a lot, measured within
the lot boundaries at the minimum required setback line. For flag lots, the lot
width shall be determined in the same manner and the setback line shall be
measured from where the front lot line is equal to or greater than the minimum
lot width.
LOT, ZONING: An area of land composed of:
   A.   A single lot of record;
   B.   A portion of a lot of record; or
   C.   A combination of contiguous lots of record or portions of lots of
record under common ownership fronting on an improved street, public right of
way, or a private way whose use has been approved by the village of Winfield,
which the village of Winfield by its zoning ordinance or its map or the
property owner designates as a development site meeting the minimum lot size
requirements of this title for a specific permitted or special use in the
zoning district in which it is located, subject to the right to seek a variance
as otherwise provided for in the zoning ordinance. Therefore, the zoning lot
may or may not coincide with a lot of record.
MARQUEE: Any hood or awning of permanent construction supported entirely by the
building and projecting from the building's wall over a sidewalk or pedestrian
thoroughfare.
MOTEL: A building containing lodging rooms having individual bathrooms, and
where each lodging room has a doorway opening directly to the outdoors, and
where more than fifty percent (50%) of the lodging rooms are for rent to
transient tourists for periods of less than thirty (30) days.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or premises in which freight is received or
dispatched by motor vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled wheeled vehicle designed primarily for
transportation of persons or goods along public streets.
NAMEPLATE: A sign which displays only the name or address of the occupant and
is unlighted.
NET AREA: The area of a development parcel remaining after subtracting the area
of public rights of way, jurisdictional wetlands (as defined by the U.S. army
corps of engineers), open waters, open space and other land areas precluded
from development by applicable statutory requirements.
NET DENSITY: The number of dwelling units that can be built on a development
parcel per net acre for purposes of evaluating the recommended maximum density
within a land use category. The maximum density is the number of dwelling units
obtained by dividing the net area by the minimum lot area permitted within the
zoning district in which the development parcel is located. See definition of
Net Area.
NURSERY, RETAIL: Land and/or greenhouses used to raise flowers, shrubs and
plants for sale on the premises to the general public.
NURSERY SCHOOL: A school, private, semipublic or public, providing organized
instruction and care for children prior to their enrollment in an elementary
school.
NURSING HOME: A building containing facilities for the care of and occupancy by
aged, chronically ill, infirm or incurable persons, or a place of rest for
those persons suffering bodily disorders, in which three (3) or more persons
not members of the same family residing on the premises are received and
provided with food, shelter and care. The term "nursing homes" shall not
include hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to the
diagnosis and treatment of disease or injury, maternity cases or mental
illness.
OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE: A certificate of use and occupancy issued by the village
stating the occupancy and use of land or a building or structure referred to
therein complies with the provisions of this title.
OCTAVE BAND: A term denoting all the frequencies between any given frequency
and double that frequency.
OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to
standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals.
ODOR THRESHOLD VALUE: The minimum concentration of odorous materials in air
which can be detected as determined by Manufacturing Chemists Association or
other qualified laboratory.
OFFICE: A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a business,
profession, service, industry or governmental unit or other agency. Such use
shall not include the assembly, construction or manufacture of any product.
Office uses include desktop publishing and computer programming.
OPEN SALES LOT: Any land used or occupied for the purpose of buying and selling
motor vehicles in operable condition such as passenger cars, trucks, motor
scooters or motorcycles, boats or monuments.
OPEN SPACE: Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved, or
otherwise devoid of buildings or other structures and paved areas, and set
aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment of owners and occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such open
space.
PARCEL: A lot, or contiguous group of lots under single ownership or controlled
by a single entity, and usually considered a unit of land area for development
purposes. See definition of Tract.
PARKING AND LOADING FACILITY, OFF STREET: A building, structure, parcel of
land, or portion thereof that provides space for off street parking or off
street loading, including accessways, driveways and aisles, and is either a
principal or accessory use.
PARKING AREA OR LOT: A suitably surfaced and maintained area exclusive of any
street, alley, or other access, designed or used for the temporary storage of
motor vehicles.
PARKING LOT, MUNICIPAL: A public parking area owned by the village.
PARKING LOT, PRIVATE: A surface, other than a street or public way, designed,
arranged and made available for the parking of motor vehicles.
PARKING LOT, PUBLIC: A surface, other than a street or public way, intended or
permitted to be used for the parking of passenger automobile and commercial
vehicles under one and one- half (11/2) ton capacity and available to the
public, whether for compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or
customers.
PARKING, ON STREET: A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle that is
located on a dedicated street right of way.
PARKING OR LOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: An open, hard surfaced area of land,
other than rights of way, access drives, aisles, ramps, columns, or office/work
areas for which the principal use is the standing, loading and unloading of
motor vehicles.
PARKING SPACE: An enclosed or unenclosed area permanently reserved for the
temporary storage of one automobile which is appropriately connected, with
adequate ingress and egress, to a street or alley.
PLAN COMMISSION: The plan commission of the village 3 .
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A parcel of land or contiguous parcels of land initially
under single ownership or unified control developed as a single entity,
compatible with adjacent parcels.
The area of an established planned development shall remain in conformance with
the intent of the original planned development concept as modified from time to
time as recommended by the plan commission and approved by the village board of
trustees.
RECREATION FACILITY: An indoor or outdoor place designed and equipped for the
conduct of sports or other leisure time activities. A recreational facility may
include other uses related to recreational activities, such as food service
operations, banquet halls or dancing areas.
RECREATION FACILITY, COMMERCIAL: A recreation facility operated for profit as a
business open to the general public for use upon payment of a fee, or operated
as a private club for exclusive use by members and their guests upon payment of
a membership fee.
RECREATION FACILITY, INSTITUTIONAL: A recreation facility incorporated as or
operated by a nonprofit organization for exclusive use by members and guests of
said nonprofit organization.
RECREATION FACILITY, PUBLIC: A recreation facility that is maintained and
operated by a municipality or other governmental unit. Such a facility is open
to the general public and may or may not charge an admission fee.
RECREATIONAL OR UTILITY TRAILER: A vehicle of two (2) wheels or more, without
motive power in operation, designed for the purpose of transporting
recreational vehicles or equipment, not including commercial trailers, towed or
hauled by another motorized vehicle, so constructed that no part of its weight
rests upon the towing vehicle, and properly licensed to operate on the public
roads.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle without a permanent foundation that can be
towed, hauled or driven and is originally designed or permanently converted for
primary use as a temporary living accommodation. A recreational vehicle is not
used for commercial purposes and includes, but is not limited to, the
following: house trailers, truck and camping trailers, campers, private living
coaches and self-propelled motor homes. See definition of Trailer.
REFUSE: All waste products resulting from human habitation, except sewerage.
RESTAURANT: Any land, building or part thereof, other than a "boarding house"
or "bed and breakfast", as defined by this title, where meals are provided for
compensation. Restaurants include, but are not limited to, cafes, cafeterias,
coffee shops, lunchrooms, drive-in establishments, tearooms and dining rooms.
RESTAURANT, CARRYOUT: A restaurant use that primarily serves food and beverages
in disposable containers for consumption off the premises, and where ordering
and pick up of food may take place from an automobile. See definition of Drive-
Through/Drive-In Establishment.
RESTAURANT, OUTDOOR DINING: A restaurant use with an enclosed or unenclosed
area that is outside the principal structure containing the restaurant use and
is primarily exposed to the open air used to provide seating for the
consumption of meals. An outdoor dining restaurant use shall not be permitted
on public sidewalks or any other public land, easement or right of way.
RESTAURANT, SIT DOWN: A restaurant use that primarily serves food and beverages
for consumption on the premises.
RESTRICTED OFFICE: An office use conducted entirely within a building
originally constructed as a principal single-family residence, or a building or
structure accessory thereto, with no residential dwelling component. A
restricted office use is performed solely for gain or financial support by
means of technical, clerical, administrative or consultive work with no direct
retail sales to the public.
RETAIL: The general sale of commodities to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: That portion of real estate dedicated for public use.
RINGELMANN CHART: A chart which is described in the "U.S. Bureau Of Mines
Information Circular 6888", and on which are illustrated graduated shades of
gray for use in estimating the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number of the area on the Ringelmann chart that
coincides most nearly with the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street which is used or intended to be used for the
travel of motor vehicles.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House.
SCREENING: A structure erected or vegetation planted for concealing from
viewers the area behind it.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and the nearest
wall in a building or side of a structure facing such lot line or edge of the
area of operation of a principal use, when no building or structure is
involved.
SIGN: See title 9, chapter 3 of this code.
SMOKE UNITS, NUMBER OF: The number obtained by multiplying the smoke density in
Ringelmann numbers by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
calculation, a Ringelmann density reading is made at least once every minute
during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the time
in minutes during which it is observed; the various products are then added
together to give the total number of smoke units observed during the total
period under observation. Steam or water vapor is not considered smoke.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized by the American Standards
Association for measurement of the intensity of sound.
STABLE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or structure which is located on a lot
on which a dwelling is located and which is designed, arranged, used or
intended to be used for housing horses or ponies as allowed on the site.
STACKING REQUIREMENTS: For the purposes herein, stacking requirements are the
number of cars that must be accommodated in a stacking space while awaiting
ingress or egress to a specified business or service establishment.
STORAGE TENT: A temporary structure, enclosure or shelter constructed of fabric
or pliable material supported by any manner except by air or the contents that
it protects.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above; or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall be counted as a
story and a cellar shall not be counted as a story.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall not more than three feet (3') above the top floor level,
and in which space does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the floor area
immediately below it.
STREET: A public street, unless the text specifically says "private street".
STREET, PRIVATE: A permanent private right of way which affords a primary means
of access to abutting property. A private street is not an easement.
STREET, PUBLIC: A permanent public right of way which affords a primary means
of access to abutting property.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, other than incidental repairs, in the
supporting members of a building or structure such as bearing walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or
exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires more or less
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground. An advertising or business sign or other advertising
device, if detached or projecting, shall be construed to be a separate
structure.
TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building where liquors are sold to be consumed on the
premises but not including restaurants where the principal business is serving
food.
TEMPORARY MEMBRANE STRUCTURE: An air inflated, air supported, cable, or frame
covered structure or a temporary structure, enclosure or shelter constructed of
fabric or pliable material and not otherwise defined as a tent, or canopy.
TEMPORARY STORAGE CANOPY: A temporary structure, enclosure, or shelter
constructed of fabric or pliable materials supported by any manner, except by
air or the contents it protects, and open, without sidewalls or drops on
seventy five percent (75%) or more of the perimeter.
THOROUGHFARE: A principal arterial, minor arterial or major collector, as
designated in the official general development plan of Winfield.
TOWER: A supporting structure for an antenna (including dish), windmill or
similar device attached to a building or a detached structure or antenna
affixed to the ground, used in the generation of electrical power or in the
transmission, relaying or receiving of microwaves or radio or television
communications or to support a windmill.
TOWNHOME: See definition of Dwelling, Townhome.
TOXIC MATERIAL: A substance, whether liquid, solid or gaseous, which, by reason
of an inherent deleterious property, tends to destroy life or impair health.
TRACT: A parcel or an area of land. See definition of Parcel.
TRAILER: A structure standing on wheels, towed or hauled by another vehicle and
used for carrying materials, goods or objects, or as a temporary office.
USE: The purpose of activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, INCIDENTAL: See definition of Accessory Building Or Use.
USE, NONCONFORMING: Any building or structure and the use thereof or the use of
land that does not conform with the regulations of this title or any amendment
hereto governing use in the district in which it is located, but which
conformed with all of the codes, ordinances and other legal requirements
applicable at the time such building or structure was erected, enlarged or
altered, and the use thereof or the use of land was established.
USE, PERMITTED: Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and, when applicable, performance standards of this title for the district in
which such use is located.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The dominant use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
USE, SPECIAL: A use, either public or private, which because of its unique
characteristics cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in any
particular district or districts.
USE, TEMPORARY: A use established for a fixed period of time with the intent to
discontinue such use upon the expiration of a specified time period. Such uses
include, but are not limited to, seasonal farm produce and Christmas tree
sales, sidewalk sales, circuses, carnivals and other organized outdoor
activities requiring tents or other temporary buildings or structures.
VARIANCE: Permission granted by the village board to depart from the terms of
the zoning ordinance where such departure will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the
results of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this title
would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
VETERINARY CLINIC: A facility rendering surgical and medical treatment to small
animals and having overnight accommodations for purposes of recovery. Small
animals shall be deemed to be ordinary household pets, excluding horses,
donkeys or other such animals not normally housed or cared for entirely within
the confines of a residence. Crematory facilities shall not be allowed in a
veterinary clinic.
VILLAGE BOARD: The Board of Trustees of the Village of Winfield, Illinois.
WAREHOUSE/DISTRIBUTION: A use engaged in the storage of goods/materials
awaiting shipment to a retail or wholesale user, or to another warehouse.
WETLAND(S): Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes and
bogs.
WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT: A business establishment engaged in selling to
retailers or jobbers rather than consumers.
YARD: An open space on the same zoning lot with a building, structure or use,
unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky, except as
otherwise permitted in this title.
YARD, CORNER SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line which adjoins any
street, between the front and rear yards, to a width specified in the yard
requirements for the zoning district.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full width of the established front lot
line between side lot lines to a depth specified in the yard requirements for
the zoning district.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line, between the front
and rear yards, to a width specified in the yard requirements for the zoning
district.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending along the full width of the rear lot line between
the side lot lines to a depth specified in the yard requirements for the zoning
district.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: Wherever the term "Zoning Administrator" is used, it
shall mean the Building Commissioner, who shall hold both titles.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 4 : The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of
Winfield, Illinois.
ZONING DISTRICTS: The districts into which the Village has been divided as set
forth on the zoning district map 5  for the purposes of zoning regulations and
requirements.
ZONING MAP 3 : The map incorporated herein as a part hereof, designating zoning
districts. (Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999; amd. Ord. 2005-6-24, 6-16-2005; Ord.
2006-11-54, 11-16-2006; Ord. 2008-3-11, 3-20-2008; Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010;
Ord. 2010-06-22, 6-17-2010; Ord. 2011-02-04, 2-17-2011; Ord. 2011-11-17, 11-17-
2011; Ord. 2015-11-34, 11-19-2015; Ord. 2018-02-01, 2-1-2018; Ord. 2019-11-26,
11-21-2019) 
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-2-6 of this code.
2 2. 765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
3 1. See title 2, chapter 2 of this code and section
  10-11-1-3 of this title.
4 1. See also title 2, chapter 3 of this Code.
5 2. See section
  10-3-2 of this title.
3 3. See section
  10-3-2 of this title.
10-1-5: LOT AND YARD ILLUSTRATIONS:
   EXAMPLE OF LOT TYPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2155.gif]
   DEFINITIONS
CORNER LOT is a lot abutting on 2 streets at their intersection, where the
angle of the intersection is not more than 135 degrees.
REVERSED CORNER LOT is a corner lot where the street side lot line is a
continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its rear.
INTERIOR LOT is a lot other than a corner or a reversed corner lot - which does
not abut a street except along the front lot line.
THROUGH LOT is a lot having 2 parallel front lot lines abutting 2 parallel
streets.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2010-06-22, 6-17-2010)
   LOT WIDTH AND LOT DEPTH ILLUSTRATIONS
   Bulk Requirements Vary According To Zoning District
   (See chapter 4 of the village zoning ordinance)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2157.gif]
Depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between the midpoints of
the front lot line and the rear lot line.
Width of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between the side lot
lines at the building setback line.
    REQUIRED YARDS ILLUSTRATION
   Bulk Requirements Vary According To Zoning District
   (See chapter 4 of the village zoning ordinance)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2159.gif]
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Interpretation
10-2-2: Scope Of Regulations
10-2-3: Use Regulations
10-2-4: Bulk Regulations
10-2-5: Zoning Lot Requirements
10-2-6: General Provisions For Nonresidential Uses
10-2-7: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-2-8: Number Of Buildings On A Zoning Lot
10-2-9: Permitted Temporary Buildings
10-2-10: Permitted Temporary Uses
10-2-11: Temporary Use Permit
10-2-12: Access To Public Streets
10-2-12-1: Flag Lots
10-2-13: Home Occupations
10-2-14: Floodplain Regulations
10-2-15: Tree Preservation
10-2-15-1: General Requirements
10-2-15-2: Varieties Of Trees
10-2-15-3: Tree Standards
10-2-15-4: Planting Requirements
10-2-15-5: Tree Evaluation Criteria
10-2-15-6: References And Websites
10-2-16: Signs
10-2-16-1: Definitions
10-2-16-2: Administration Of Provisions
10-2-16-3: General Standards
10-2-16-4: Unified Business Center Sign Plan
10-2-16-5: Allowed Signs; Regulations
10-2-16-6: Allowed Secondary Signs
10-2-16-7: Sign Area
10-2-16-8: Prohibited Signs
10-2-16-9: Legal Nonconforming Signs
10-2-16-10: Exemptions From Provisions
10-2-16-11: Penalty
10-2-17: Adult-Use Cannabis
10-2-1: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals and welfare.
   B.   Existing Laws: Where a condition imposed by any provision of this title
upon the: 1) use of land or buildings, 2) bulk of buildings, 3) floor area
requirements, 4) lot area requirements, and 5) yard requirements, is either
more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any
other provision of this title or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule
or regulation of any kind, the regulation which is more restrictive or which
imposes higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   C.   Existing Agreements: This title is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant or agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this
title are more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such
easements, covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this
title shall govern. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-2: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Allowable Use Of Land Or Buildings: The following uses of land or
buildings are located in the districts indicated in chapters 4, 5, 6 and 7 of
this title, under the conditions specified in this title.
      1.   Uses lawfully established on the effective date hereof.
      2.   Permitted uses as designated in chapters 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this
title.
      3.   Special uses as designated in chapters 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this title.
   B.   Prohibited Use Of Land Or Buildings: No building or tract of land shall
be devoted to any use other than one which is specified as a permitted or
special use in chapters 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this title in the zoning district in
which such building or land is located.
However, where a building permit for a building or structure has been issued in
accordance with law prior to the effective date hereof, and where construction
has commenced within six (6) months of such effective date and has been
diligently prosecuted toward completion, said building or structure may be
completed in accordance with the approved plan on the basis of which the
building permit was issued, and further, may upon completion, be occupied under
a certificate of occupancy by the use originally designated, subject to the
provisions of chapter 8 of this title.
   C.   Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses: No building, structure or
use, not lawfully existing at the time of the adoption of this title, shall
become or be made lawful solely by reason of the adoption of this title; and to
the extent that, and in any manner, said unlawful building, structure or use is
in conflict with the requirements of this title, said building, structure or
use remains unlawful hereunder. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-3: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Use: No dwelling unit or other building or structure, or part thereof,
shall be erected, raised, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or altered
except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located, except:
In residence districts, a nonconforming lot of record, even though not meeting
the minimum requirements of this title as to area and/or width may be used for
construction of a single-family residence, subject to the requirements of
section
10-2-5 of this chapter provided the use conforms with all other regulations of
the district in which it is located.
   B.   Uses Not Specifically Permitted In District: When a use is not
specifically listed in the sections devoted to permitted uses, it shall be
assumed that such use is hereby expressly prohibited unless the village board
of trustees determines that said use is similar to and not more objectionable
than uses listed. Such use may then be permitted.
   C.   Prohibited Uses: The following uses are prohibited:
      1.   Parked Vehicles In Unimproved Lots: No parking of any vehicle or
trailer is permitted anywhere on an unimproved lot unless specifically allowed
as an accessory use to a permitted or special use (e.g., lots providing
accessory parking to park sites). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-4: BULK REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Requirements: All new buildings shall conform to the bulk
regulations except as established herein for the district in which each
building is located. Further, no existing building shall be enlarged,
reconstructed, structurally altered, converted or relocated in such a manner as
to conflict or further conflict with the bulk regulations of this title for the
district in which such building shall be located.
   B.   Yards, Courts And Other Open Space:
      1.   Maintenance: The maintenance of yards, courts and other open spaces
and minimum lot area legally required for a building shall be a continuing
obligation of the owner of such building or of the property on which it is
located as long as the building is in existence. Furthermore, no legally
required yards, courts or other open space or minimum lot area allocated to any
building, shall by virtue of change of ownership or for any reason be used to
satisfy yard, court or other open space, or minimum lot area requirements for
any other building.
      2.   Location: All yards, courts and other open spaces allocated to a
building or dwelling group shall be located on the same zoning lot as such
building or dwelling group.
   C.   Division Of Zoning Lots: No improved zoning lot shall hereafter be
divided into two (2) or more zoning lots unless all improved zoning lots
resulting from each such division shall conform with all the applicable bulk
regulations of the zoning district in which the property is located.
   D.   Required Yards For Existing Buildings:
      1.   No yards now or hereafter provided for a building existing on the
effective date hereof shall subsequently be reduced below or further reduced
below if already less than the minimum yard requirements of this title for
equivalent new construction.
      2.   For an existing street frontage between intersecting streets where
fifty percent (50%) or more of its existing improved lots contain structures,
the front yard setback for any proposed structures, whether on existing lots or
new lots resulting from subdivision, shall be the mean of the front yard
setbacks of the existing structures within the contiguous four hundred feet
(400') of common street frontage but not extending across an intersecting
street. However, at no time shall any yard setback be established that does not
meet the minimum standard of the applicable zoning district, except as
expressly permitted by this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-5: ZONING LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Contiguous Lots: When two (2) or more contiguous lots of record or
parts of lots of record, one or both of which are substandard with respect to
lot width and/or area for the regulations of the district in which they are
located are in the same ownership or control as defined in this title and are
in combination of such a size as to constitute at least one conforming zoning
lot, such lots of record or portions thereof shall, for purposes of this title,
be regarded as one zoning lot. Any development of that resulting zoning lot
must be in conformity with all the regulations of the district in which it is
located. If the resulting zoning lot exceeds the minimum requirements of the
district in which it is located, the zoning lot may be subdivided into
additional zoning lots so long as each resulting zoning lot meets or exceeds
the minimum requirements of the district in which it is located. Such
contiguous substandard lots of record in such common ownership or control on
the effective date of this title shall be considered as being one or more
conforming zoning lots for purposes of this title whether or not such common
ownership or control ceases to exist.
   B.   Division Or Sale Of Improved Lots: No zoning lot improved with a
dwelling unit or other principal building or structure shall thereafter be
divided into two (2) or more lots, and no portion of any zoning lot which is
improved with a dwelling unit or other principal building or structure shall be
sold unless all zoning lots resulting from each division or sale and improved
with a dwelling unit or other principal building or structure conform to all of
the bulk regulations of the zoning district in which they are located.
   C.   Reduction In Dimensions: No yard or zoning lot shall be reduced in
dimension or area so that the lot width, lot frontage, lot area, yards, or
required open space become less than the minimum requirements set forth herein.
Yards, zoning lots, parcels, or subdivision lots of record created after the
effective date of this title shall meet at least the minimum requirements set
forth herein. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL USES:
   A.   Applicability: The following standards shall apply to all
nonresidential land uses when there are applications for building permits,
rezoning, special use permits and planned developments unless otherwise
approved by the village board.
   B.   Standards Of Development:
      1.   Setback, Bulk And Sign Regulations: Principal and accessory
buildings and structures shall comply with yard and setback requirements; floor
area and height limitations; and sign regulations, applicable to the district
in which the use is located.
      2.   Vehicular Access:
         a.   Points of vehicular ingress and egress to the site shall be
limited to maximize the safety and operational efficiency of Winfield's major
and collector roadways.
         b.   The location, number and design of access drives shall be
reviewed by the engineer for the village, and coordinated with adjacent uses
and properties, to provide for safe and efficient movement of vehicles. Where
possible, cross easements between properties shall be provided, to minimize the
number of drives required on adjacent public streets.
      3.   Pedestrian Access:
         a.   Sidewalks, not less than five feet (5') wide, shall be provided
along streets and access drives to provide safe pedestrian access to and from
Winfield's business and industrial districts.
         b.   Where parking is proposed to be located perpendicular to an
adjacent sidewalk, walks shall be increased to a minimum of six and one-half
feet (61/2') in width.
      4.   Off Street Parking And Loading:
         a.   Parking and loading spaces and drive aisles shall be provided in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 9 of this title.
         b.   Plans shall demonstrate compliance with the Illinois
accessibility code and Americans with disabilities act, as may be amended from
time to time.
      5.   Screening: Where a nonresidential use abuts, or is across the street
from a residential or institutional use, screening shall be provided in
accordance with the following:
         a.   A landscaped berm, fence, wall or combination thereof shall be
installed to provide year round screening. Placement of the landscape screen
shall not impair the safety of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
         b.   Where off street parking is visible from a public right of way,
screening shall be at least three feet (3') high upon installation, as measured
from the surface elevation of the closest parking surface.
         c.   Where off street parking or loading abuts a residential or
institutional use, screening shall be not less than five feet (5') high upon
installation.
         d.   Landscape plantings shall be kept alive and in good condition, or
replaced. Any property owner that does not maintain required screening in
accordance with approved plans shall be subject to fines as described within
section
10-11-8 of this title.
         e.   Screening shall be incorporated into a landscape plan prepared
for the project, shall require review and recommendation of approval by the
village board and shall be in compliance with the provisions of this title,
including, but not limited to, those within chapter 9 of this title.
      6.   Landscaping: A landscape plan, prepared by a licensed landscape
architect, shall be submitted for all projects involving sites in excess of one
acre or a new structure in excess of two thousand (2,000) square feet. The plan
shall be subject to review and approval by the village board.
         a.   All areas of the site, which are not paved, shall be landscaped
with trees, shrubs, ground cover and/or flowers to:
            (1)   Slow surface water runoff.
            (2)   Restrict blowing trash and litter.
            (3)   Deter improper access or site use by the public.
            (4)   Improve the visual quality of the site.
         b.   The landscape plan shall include identification of species, size
and location of plant materials and all other landscape treatments including,
but not limited to:
            (1)   Berms.
            (2)   Fences.
            (3)   Ground covers.
            (4)   Ornamental or accent lighting.
            (5)   Paving materials.
            (6)   Limits of seed and/or sod.
         c.   Trees and shrubs shall be keyed into a plant list.
         d.   Upon installation, trees shall not be less than the following
sizes:
            (1)   Shade: Three inch (3") caliper, minimum, as measured twelve
inches (12") above grade.
            (2)   Evergreen: Six feet (6') tall, minimum.
            (3)   Ornamental:
               (A)   Single stem: Two and one-half inches (21/2") caliper,
minimum, as measured twelve inches (12") above grade.
               (B)   Multistem: Six feet (6') tall minimum.
         e.   All plant materials shall be kept alive and in good condition or
shall be replaced.
         f.   Provision shall be made for perimeter landscaping through the use
of plant materials, unless otherwise recommended by the plan commission and
approved by the village board. Such screening shall include:
            (1)   The first thirty feet (30') of a front yard. Parking and
parallel drive aisles shall not be permitted in this minimum thirty feet (30').
            (2)   A minimum ten foot (10') wide perimeter yard around the side
and rear property lines, where a business or industrial use abuts another
business or industrial use.
            (3)   A minimum twenty five foot (25') wide perimeter yard around
the side and rear property lines, where a business or industrial use abuts a
residential or institutional use.
            (4)   Shade and/or evergreen trees shall be installed in these
yards, at a ratio of not less than one tree for every thirty (30) linear feet
of perimeter yard. Trees may be informally clustered or grouped, rather than
equally spaced.
      7.   Lighting:
         a.   Exterior lighting proposed for use on the site shall be planned,
erected and maintained so that light is confined to the property, and does not
cause direct glare or light spillage on adjacent properties or public rights of
way.
         b.   A point by point photometric plan shall be submitted for parking
lots containing more than forty (40) spaces that demonstrates:
            (1)   Average maintained illumination between one and three (3)
foot-candles.
            (2)   Not more than 0.5 foot-candle beyond property lines except
within thirty feet (30') of entrances/exits.
         c.   Light fixtures shall be designed to aesthetically relate to the
character of the development.
         d.   Plans for parking lot, security, landscape and other building
accent lighting shall be subject to review and approval by the village.
      8.   Mechanical Equipment: All roof mounted mechanical equipment
including, but not limited to, heating, ventilating and air conditioning units
(HVAC) shall be fully screened from public view on all sides of the building:
         a.   Screening shall be accomplished by the roof structure or parapet
walls, unless otherwise recommended by the plan commission and approved by the
village board.
         b.   Screening shall be designed to blend with, and complement the
architecture of the building.
         c.   The height of the parapet walls, roof structure, or other
approved method of screening shall equal the height of the tallest rooftop unit
installed on the building.
      9.   Utility Meters/Transformers:
         a.   Wall mounted utility meters and ground supported transformers
shall be painted to match the building.
         b.   If visible to the public, meters and transformers shall be
screened by landscaping which, upon installation, shall equal the height of the
tallest meter or transformer.
      10.   Trash Enclosure:
         a.   Trash receptacles shall be enclosed by masonry walls or quality
wood fencing, designed to match the building.
         b.   Enclosures shall be constructed to be equal to or taller than the
height of the tallest bin proposed for use.
         c.   Trash enclosures shall be provided with gates to contain blowing
trash, and a concrete pad and approach apron.
      11.   Outdoor Storage:
         a.   All business, services, storage, merchandise display and
processing shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building, with the
exception of:
            (1)   Off street parking and loading areas.
            (2)   Open sales lots.
            (3)   Outdoor sales of products for automobile service stations,
provided they are related to servicing motor vehicles.
         b.   All outdoor storage facilities for accessory uses and products
shall be enclosed by a fence, wall or plant materials adequate to conceal such
facilities from adjacent properties and public rights of way. (Ord. 2010-04-07,
4-1-2010)
10-2-7: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Permitted Obstructions, Yards: The following accessory buildings,
structures and uses are permitted and may be obstructions in required yards as
follows:
 
F Denotes permitted obstruction in front yards and side yards abutting streets.
S Denotes permitted obstruction in interior side yards.
R Denotes permitted obstruction in rear yards.
 
Air conditioning equipment window units may project not more than 2 feet;
central air conditioning units may project into a required yard by not    F S R
more than 6 feet
Arbors or trellises, and where trellises are attached to the principal
building they may also project into front yards, side yards and rear      F S R
yards
Architectural entrance structures, such as gates and arches, on a lot not
less than 1 acre in area or at entrance roadways into subdivisions or     F S R
planned developments containing 50 or more lots
Awnings or canopies for residential buildings which may project not more  F S R
than 3 feet into a required yard
Balconies, projecting by not more than 6 feet                             F S R
Bay windows, projecting not more than 3 feet into a yard                  F S R
Chimneys, attached, projecting not more than 24 inches into a yard        F S R
Eaves and gutters on principal buildings or attached accessory buildings,
projecting not more than 21/2 feet into a required front and rear yard,   F S R
not more than 24 inches into a required side yard
Fences, not to exceed the height and other restrictions specified in      F S R
title 9, chapter 5 of this code
Fire pit/outdoor fire place - Permanent - Non-natural gas fueled fire
pit/outdoor fire places shall be located at least twenty-five feet (25')    R
from any structure.
Fire pit/ outdoor fire place - Permanent - Natural gas fueled fire pits/
outdoor fire places shall be located at least fifteen feet (15') from any   R
structure.
Flagpoles. Flagpoles shall not exceed the maximum height permitted for    F S R
the principal structure on the lot in the subject zoning district.
Garages or carports, detached, not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the       R
rear yard area, or 800 sq. ft. of lot coverage, whichever is less.
Laundry drying equipment                                                   S R
Open entrances, stoops, porches, terraces, decks, patios, when not
covered and elevated less than 4 feet above grade, may project not closer
than 2 feet into the side yard and 6 feet into the front yard. In the     F S R
rear yard the accessory structure must be a minimum of 10-feet from any
rear lot line, as well as out of any drainage, public utility, or roadway
easement, whichever is greater
Open off street loading spaces accessory to nonresidential uses. See         
chapter 9 of this title
Ornamental light standards                                                F S R
Outdoor barbecue                                                           S R
Patios, decks and terraces, open (unroofed), elevated greater than 4 feet
above the average level of the nearest property line. Such elevated open    R
decks, patios and terraces shall project no more than 10 feet into a
required yard.
Patios, decks, gazebos, pergolas and terraces (covered)                    S R
Playground equipment                                                        R
Playhouses and open sided summerhouses not exceeding 120 square feet in
footprint area. Sheds and storage buildings for garden equipment and
household items as accessory to dwellings and buildings and structures      R
customarily incidental to the pursuit of agriculture, not exceeding 120
square feet in footprint area
Signs and nameplates as herein regulated. See title 9, chapter 3 of this  F S R
code
Sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental features of the principal    F S R
building, projecting not more than 18 inches into a yard or court
Steps, 2 feet or less above grade which are necessary to access a         F S R
permitted building or for access to a zoning lot from a street or alley
Swimming pools, private, shall not be closer than 10 feet to any property
line in the rear yard (setback includes pool, pool deck, any related
equipment etc.). On corner lots, no part of the swimming pool or decking    R
shall be closer to the nearest edge of the street right of way in the
rear yard than the minimum distance required in the applicable zoning
district for a corner side yard setback
Tennis courts, private; provided, that no tennis court shall be closer
than 10 feet to any property line in the rear yard. On corner lots, no
tennis court shall be closer to the nearest edge of the street right of     R
way in the rear yard than the minimum distance required in the applicable
zoning district for a corner side yard setback
Terraces (covered only) and patios                                         S R
Towers, satellite dishes and antennas, in accordance with subsection B2     R
of this section
Trees, shrubs and flowers, except as prohibited on corner lots by the     F S R
provisions of subsection 10-2-4D2 of this chapter
 
   B.   Accessory Buildings Or Structures, Including Towers And Signs:
      1.   Requirements For Buildings And Structures Other Than Towers And
Signs:
         a.   Location: Unless expressly stated differently by this title, no
such accessory building or structure shall be erected or altered nor moved to a
location:
            (1)   Wall Distance: Within ten feet (10') of the nearest wall of
the principal building unless these walls have a fire resistive rating in
conformance with title 9, chapter 1 of this code. In no event shall the
distance between the principal building and the accessory building be less than
six feet (6') unless a variation is granted;
            (2)   Front And Side Yards: Within a required front yard, required
interior side yard nor a required side yard abutting a street as set forth for
each district;
            (3)   Within Rear Yard Area: Within the area of a rear yard that is
nearer than three feet (3') from an interior lot line nor five feet (5') from a
rear lot line; or within a required drainage, public utility, or roadway
easement, whichever is greater; provided, that a roof overhang of not more than
twelve inches (12") shall be allowed in either case;
            (4)   On Corner Lots: Within the area of a rear yard that is nearer
than the required depth of the side yard along the lot line abutting a street
as required by this title;
            (5)   On Through Lots: Within the area of a rear yard that is
nearer to the rear lot line abutting a street than the distance equal to the
least depth required by this title for a front yard in the district where it is
located or the district across the street therefrom, whichever is the greater
depth; and
            (6)   On Reversed Corner Lots: Within the area of a rear yard that
is nearer to the side lot line abutting the street than the required front yard
on the adjacent lot to the rear. Further, in the above instance, no such
accessory building shall be located within five feet (5') of any part of a rear
lot line which coincides with a side lot line or portion thereof of property in
a residential district.
         b.   Maximum Size: The accumulated square footage of accessory
buildings or structures shall not exceed the maximum area for the district as
follows:
Zoning Districts Maximum Lot Coverage In Required Rear Yard
Zoning Districts                     Maximum Lot Coverage In Required Rear Yard
ER-1 single-family estate            30%
ER-2 single-family estate            30%
ER-3 single-family estate            30%
R-1 single-family residence          30%
R-1A single-family residence         30%
R-1B single-family residence         30%
R-2 single-family residence          30%
R-3 single-family residence          30%
R-4A single-family residence         30%
R-4B single-family residence         30%
R-5 single-family attached residence 30%
R-5 two-family attached residence    30%
R-6 single-family general residence  30%
R-6 two-family general residence     30%
 
         c.   Height: No accessory building or portion thereof shall exceed
seventeen feet (17') in height unless otherwise permitted as accessory to
business and limited industrial uses or to authorized special uses.
         d.   Compatible Use: Accessory uses shall be compatible with the
principal use and shall not be established prior to the establishment of the
principal use, and shall not include the keeping, propagation or culture of
pigeons, poultry, livestock or nondomesticated animals, whether or not for
profit; except, that horses for the private use of residents and their social
guests are permitted in residence districts but only under the following
conditions:
            (1)   Minimum Lot Area; Limitations On Number Of Horses:
               (A)   No horse shall be housed or kept overnight (sunset to
sunrise) on a lot of less than eighty seven thousand (87,000) square feet in
area.
               (B)   Not more than two (2) horses shall be housed or kept
overnight (sunset to sunrise) on a lot of eighty seven thousand (87,000) square
feet in area but less than one hundred seventy four thousand (174,000) square
feet in area.
               (C)   Not more than four (4) horses shall be housed or kept
overnight (sunset to sunrise) on a lot of one hundred seventy four thousand
(174,000) square feet in area or more.
A foal is not considered a horse for purposes of the foregoing lot size
limitations in subsections B1d(1)(A) and B1d(1)(B) of this section, but only in
these two (2) subsections, until it is seven (7) months old.
All definitions of lot sizes shall be exclusive of road easements.
            (2)   Limitation Of Keeping Horses And Exercise: No horse and no
corral, ring or enclosure for the containing of a horse, shall be kept, located
or maintained closer than thirty five feet (35') from any lot line.
            (3)   Accessory Building And Exercise Area:
               (A)   No accessory building used for the housing, training or
keeping of a horse shall be located:
   (i)   Closer than sixty feet (60') from any lot line.
   (ii)   Closer than ten feet (10') to the nearest septic field or drain field
tile line.
               (B)   All accessory buildings used for the housing, training or
keeping of a horse shall contain a minimum stall area of one hundred (100)
square feet for each horse plus a minimum fifty (50) square feet for food and
tack.
               (C)   No horse exercise ring, corral, pasture or other open area
for training or keeping of horses shall be located over any septic tank or
drain field tile line. All such areas shall be suitably fenced so as to contain
the horse in such a manner as to protect abutting properties from trespass by
the horse and to provide protection without danger or injury to the animal
itself.
      2.   Towers: Towers are allowable as accessory structures if the
following criteria are met:
         a.   Except as hereinafter provided in subsection B2b of this section:
1) no part of any tower shall project through a horizontal plane more than
fifteen feet (15') above the maximum building height for the zoning district in
which it is located; except, that if the tower is designed to extend and
retract, then it may be extended temporarily beyond that maximum transmitting
signals; and 2) the setback for the base of any tower in excess of six feet
(6') in height above grade shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') from all
property lines and any public easements; for towers between six feet (6') and
thirty five feet (35') in height, the minimum setback shall increase by one
foot (1') for every three feet (3') of increased tower height. All horizontal
elements of the tower shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from all
property lines and any public easements. The setback for the base of any tower
six feet (6') in height or less above grade shall meet the requirements of
subsection B1 of this section.
         b.   Communications towers shall be allowed only as an accessory use
to authorized utility and public service special uses. Such accessory uses
shall not require an amendment of the original special use permit for the
principal use. The height and setback limitations set forth in subsection B2a
of this section shall not apply if the tower is located on an existing water
tower or other municipal property.
         c.   All towers shall be in compliance with all adopted codes and
ordinances of the village as well as any current applicable rules and
regulations of the FCC and/or FAA and the "Electronic Industries Association
Manual On Structural Standards For Steel Antenna Towers And Antenna Supporting
Structures", document RS-222C (revision of RS-222-B), dated March 1976, or as
amended.
      3.   Signs: All signs shall comply with the standards of title 9, chapter
3 of this code, unless specifically exempted in accordance with the provisions
of this title.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2015-11-34, 11-19-2015; Ord. 2022-12-14,
12-15-2022; Ord. 2023-04-07, 4-6-2023)
10-2-8: NUMBER OF BUILDINGS ON A ZONING LOT:
Not more than one principal building shall be located on a single lot, nor
shall a principal residential dwelling be located on the same zoning lot with
any other principal building, except as expressly permitted by this title.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-9: PERMITTED TEMPORARY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Temporary Real Estate Office: A temporary real estate office may be
allowed in conjunction with a new housing development prior to the construction
of a model home. Such an office shall be limited to the selling or renting of
new units in such development and shall in no case to be in operation for more
than one year or until the construction of the first model home or the
construction of the first dwelling unit, whichever first occurs.
   B.   Temporary Model Homes: Temporary model homes (and temporary offices
within model homes) utilized for the sale or rental of units within an existing
development (including other subdivided land abutting such development) may be
constructed as an integral part of a development site, subdivision or planned
development, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   All single-family model homes must be located on a thoroughfare.
      2.   The use as a model home (and temporary offices within model homes)
shall be permitted for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days after the sale of
the last unit within the development site.
      3.   There shall be no vehicular access to any thoroughfare other than a
local residential street.
      4.   Provision for the parking of four (4) vehicles per model home shall
be provided within the development site, subdivision or planned development.
Following the termination of the temporary building permit, the access and
parking for each former model home shall meet all applicable standards of this
code.
      5.   A model home shall not be used as a construction office but may
include a sales office.
      6.   No construction equipment is to be stored in any model home or
anywhere on a model home site.
      7.   Display illumination for any model home shall not be allowed between
the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
   C.   Other Temporary Buildings: Other temporary structures, such as stages,
merchandise shelters or storage areas, if related to a permitted temporary use,
may be allowed by recommendation of the plan commission and approval of the
village board. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-10: PERMITTED TEMPORARY USES 1 :
The following uses of land are permitted in each zoning district (unless
specifically restricted to a particular zoning district), provided that such
uses do not pose a safety hazard to pedestrians or motorists, do not interfere
with the use and privacy of adjacent properties, comply with all applicable
yard requirements of this title, and meet all requirements noted below:
   A.   Circus, Carnival, Picnic Or Organized Activity: Permitted when
conducted outdoors or in a tent and sponsored by a religious, civic or
institutional not for profit group for a period not to exceed one week.
   B.   Construction Yard: Permitted for the installation, maintenance and
operation of facilities used by contractors in the ordinary course of
construction related to a parcel of land of which the temporary construction
yard is an integral part. Such facilities shall be located not less than five
hundred feet (500') from any building that is used as a residential dwelling
and is not part of the development site, subdivision - planned development. A
temporary construction yard shall not be permitted for a period to exceed the
duration of the construction for the development site.
   C.   Existing Building(s): Any existing principal building or accessory
structure located within the development site may be utilized for office space
or for the enclosed storage of equipment and/or building supplies associated
with the development of the site, provided such temporary use of existing
buildings shall not exceed the duration of the construction for the development
site.
   D.   Seasonal Sales Of Christmas Trees: Permitted during the six (6) week
period immediately preceding Christmas in any calendar year. Such a temporary
use shall be allowed only on premises wherein commercial uses are not permitted
uses, as defined by this title, and only when operated or sponsored by a
religious, civic or institutional not for profit group.
   E.   Seasonal Sales Of Farm Produce: Permitted once per week during a period
not to exceed five (5) months in any calendar year.
   F.   Sidewalk Sales: Permitted when conducted on private property wherein
commercial uses are permitted uses and the temporary use is incidental to the
business or businesses located on the lot or lots. The temporary use shall be
conducted only in conjunction with a special event or promotion that is related
to or sponsored by the business or businesses on the lot or lots and shall be
conducted adjacent to the entrance of the sponsoring business or businesses.
Such a temporary use shall not be permitted for a period exceeding four (4)
days and shall not occur more than three (3) times in a calendar year. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 10-2-11 of this chapter.
10-2-11: TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
A temporary building or temporary use shall require a permit from the Village
indicating the type, location and permitted duration of said permitted
temporary building or temporary use. The permit shall stipulate all conditions
relating to said building or use, and any additional safeguards, including a
performance bond, if deemed necessary, to ensure termination of said building
or use as of the date or other condition stipulated by the permit. The act of
granting a temporary building or temporary use permit shall in no way
constitute a change of the zoning district or the permitted, special or
accessory uses allowed within the district or on the property wherein the
temporary building or temporary use is permitted. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-12: ACCESS TO PUBLIC STREETS:
Except as otherwise provided for herein, every building shall be constructed or
erected upon a lot or parcel of land which abuts upon a public street, unless a
permanent easement of access to a public street was of record prior to March
28, 1985. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-12-1: FLAG LOTS:
The creation of new flag lots is prohibited. Flag lots existing as of October
19, 2017 shall be considered legal, non-conforming lots. (Ord. 2017-10-21, 10-
19-2017)
10-2-13: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides for certain types of restricted home
occupations within residential dwellings that are a benefit to both the
community and the resident but that are incidental to the use of the home as a
residence. The restrictions are intended to preserve the residential character
of a neighborhood.
   B.   General Regulations:
      1.   No alteration of any kind shall be made to the dwelling unit where
the home occupation is conducted that would change its residential character as
a dwelling unit without approval of the Village of Winfield.
      2.   Home occupation may be conducted only within the residence and not
in accessory structures.
      3.   No more than fifty percent (50%) of the total finished area of the
dwelling unit may be used for both the home occupation and related storage.
      4.   Goods that are subject of the home occupation may be fabricated or
produced on the premises, as well as manufactured elsewhere, subject, however,
to further regulations herein.
No article or stock in trade shall be displayed such that it is visible from
the exterior of the dwelling unit. Direct sales of products from the dwelling
unit are prohibited unless public access to the home occupation has been made
by invitation only, but a person may pick up an order placed earlier.
      5.   Permanent residents of the home may be employed in the conduct of
the home occupation. Nonresidents may also be employed, with a maximum of three
(3) nonresident employees present at any one time. Department of Children and
Family Services-licensed group and family daycare homes are exempt from this
limitation.
      6.   Parking for customers and employees of the home occupation shall be
limited to the residence private driveway or on the public street immediately
in front of the home occupation property.
      7.   Business hours for customer services are limited to between seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
      8.   Deliveries by semi-tractor/trailer trucks are prohibited. Incidental
and infrequent delivery of an item used in the home occupation by such vehicles
is permitted (e.g., a copy machine, desk, filing cabinets).
      9.   Home occupations shall produce no offensive noise, vibration, smoke,
dust, odors, heat, electrical interference or stray lighting beyond the walls
of the dwelling unit.
      10.   Home occupations that attract clients or students for services are
not permitted in multi-family dwelling units of three (3) units or more.
      11.   Traffic generation for home occupations is limited to twenty (20)
vehicles per day.
   C.   Uses Prohibited As Home Occupations: Home occupations that fail to meet
the requirements of subsection B of this section are not permitted and the
following activities are expressly prohibited:
      1.   Any repair of motorized vehicles, including the painting or repair
of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, or small engine repair;
      2.   Animal hospitals;
      3.   "Adult business/use" (as defined by section
10-1-4 of this title);
      4.   Kennels and stables;
      5.   Bird keeping facilities;
      6.   Barbershops or beauty shops with more than one chair;
      7.   Restaurants;
      8.   Funeral chapels or homes;
      9.   Crematoria;
      10.   Mausoleums;
      11.   Medical or dental clinics;
      12.   Any entertainment or assembly use;
      13.   Sale of firearms or ammunition;
      14.   Construction business or landscaping business that provide the
storage of goods and materials to be used in the operation of the business;
      15.   Warehousing; and
      16.   Welding or machine shops.
Any home occupation that is expressly prohibited that is legally established or
has a valid business license as of the effective date hereof shall be
considered a nonconforming use and shall be subject to chapter 8 of this title.
   D.   Business License Or Registration: Home occupations are subject to the
regulations set forth in title 3 of this code.
   E.   Revocation Of Permits And Fines: Revocation of a home occupation
business license may be made for the following reasons:
      1.   Change in the use for which the permit was issued;
      2.   Noncompliance with any of the provisions herein; or
      3.   Violation of any village ordinance or state or federal law. (Ord.
2011-11-17, 11-17-2011)
10-2-14: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS:
See title 12 of this code. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-15: TREE PRESERVATION:
This section shall be known, cited, and referred to as the WINFIELD TREE
PRESERVATION REGULATIONS.
   A.   Purpose And Intent: While allowing for improvement of land within the
village, it is the stated public policy of the village to maintain existing
trees within the village and to add to the tree population within the village,
where possible. The preservation of existing trees in the village and the
planting of additional trees are intended to accomplish the following
objectives:
      1.   Establish regulations limiting the removal and ensuring the
replacement of trees from lands within the village;
      2.   Preserve trees as an important public resource enhancing the quality
of life and the general welfare of the village and enhancing its unique
character and aesthetic environment;
      3.   Encourage the protection of healthy trees and provide for the
replacement and/or replanting of trees that are necessarily removed during
construction, development, or redevelopment;
      4.   Safeguard and enhance the ecological and aesthetic environment of
the village and its citizens;
      5.   Dissuade the clearing and disturbing of land so as to preserve the
existing natural vegetation with plant material indigenous to the region;
      6.   Preserve existing landscape buffers to minimize the impact of
adjoining differing land uses;
      7.   Enhance and protect the aesthetic character of roadway corridors;
      8.   Reduce the surface heat through shade provided by trees;
      9.   Mitigate the negative visual and noise impact of vehicle traffic;
      10.   Protect and enhance property values;
      11.   Remove trees which pose a threat, danger, or nuisance to the public
or to property in the village; and
      12.   Recognize and assume the responsibility of the village of Winfield
by its immediate proximity to no fewer than five (5) forest preserves as a
buffer between unchecked development and the habitat improvement priority of
the forest preserve district of DuPage County (FPDDC).
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions apply to the terms used in this
section:
ANSI A300: An American national standard for tree care operations covering
standard practices for tree, shrub, and other woody plant maintenance. These
standards are intended to apply to any person, or entity engaged in the
business, trade, or performance of repairing, maintaining, or preserving trees.
ARBORIST: A person who, based on training and experience, for profit, diagnoses
the condition of shade or ornamental trees and shrubs and recommends or
supervises the treatment of any such trees, or in any manner treats such trees,
by feeding or fertilizing, or by pruning, trimming, bracing, treating cavities
or other methods, and is a member in good standing in a reputable nationally
recognized professional arborist association or is so licensed.
CROWN: Parts of a tree above the trunk including leaves, branches, and
scaffolds.
dbh: Diameter at breast height; the average diameter (outside the bark) of a
tree 4.5 feet above mean ground level.
DAMAGE: The taking of any direct or indirect action that causes, or is
reasonably likely to cause, the death of a tree or a significant loss to a
tree's structural integrity including, without limitation, destruction,
poisoning, carving, altering drainage, mutilating, girdling, severing the main
trunk, leader, or large branches, touching with live wires, crushing or
exposing the roots, digging or drilling any hole or trench within the drip
line, filling with soil or other materials within the drip line, compacting a
substantial portion of the soil in the drip line, or moving a tree to another
location. Without limiting of the foregoing, "damage" does not include the
pruning of trees in accordance with "Standard Practices For Tree, Shrub, And
Other Woody Plant Maintenance" (ANSI A300) and "Tree Pruning Guidelines"
published by the International Society Of Arboriculture or similar standards
and guidelines recommended by the village.
DRIP LINE: A line drawn on the ground surface directly beneath and
perpendicular to the maximum radius of the crown of an existing tree but not
less than six feet (6') from the trunk, whichever is greater.
NONPROTECTED TREE: Vegetation not subject to the tree preservation regulations
as noted in section
10-2-15-2, table 2 of this chapter.
NORTHERN GROWN TREES: Those trees cultivated within one hundred fifty (150)
miles of the village of Winfield.
PROTECTED TREE: Any tree native to woodland habitats of the upper DuPage River
watershed and otherwise noted in section
10-2-15-2, table 1 of this chapter having a trunk size of six inches (6") or
greater dbh located on property subject to zoning board of appeals, plan
commission or village board approval for zoning relief including, but not
limited to, planned unit developments, variations and special use permits or a
public tree. This includes multistemmed trees with a main trunk size of six
inches (6") dbh or greater.
PRUNING: The cutting or trimming of trees in accordance with "Standard
Practices For Tree, Shrub, And Other Woody Plant Maintenance" (ANSI A300) and
"Tree Pruning Guidelines" published by the International Society Of
Arboriculture or similar standards and guidelines recommended by the village.
PUBLIC TREE: Any tree located on the dedicated right of way of all public roads
and streets (parkway trees) in the village within or adjacent to a residential
zoning district is designated as a protected tree.
REMOVE OR REMOVAL: The causing or accomplishing of the actual physical removal
of a tree or the effective removal through damaging, poisoning, or other direct
or indirect action resulting in, or likely resulting in, the death of a tree.
REPLACEMENT TREE: A nursery grown certified tree, properly balled and
burlapped, meeting the requirements specified within section
10-2-15-2, table 1 of this chapter.
TREE: Any self-supporting, woody plant together with its root system, growing
upon the earth usually with one trunk, or a multistemmed trunk system,
supporting a definitely formed crown.
TREE PRESERVATION PLAN (TPP): A written plan indicating the methods which are
to be used to preserve a public tree or protected tree during construction, and
shall include a tree survey. The document shall be coordinated with and, where
applicable, made a part of a site grading plan or development plan.
   C.   Scope: These regulations establish a policy of the village as it
relates to the preservation of existing trees, landscaping, and public tree
planting. The provisions of these regulations shall apply generally and
uniformly to all sites and to all public trees as defined herein. The village
manager or designee shall administer and enforce these regulations. The village
manager or designee shall implement and promote the purposes and provisions of
these regulations consistent with good forestry practice. Without limiting the
generality of this authority, these regulations may among other things
prescribe:
      1.   Classification of tree species considering related desirability,
hardiness, and disease and pest resistance for tree preservation and
replacement purposes;
      2.   Specifications for protecting trees during construction activities;
      3.   Procedures for permit and plan review and approval;
      4.   Requirements for tree replacement plans;
      5.   Requirements for tree protection, construction envelope, and
conservancy area fencing;
      6.   Establishment of a method to provide for tree replacement and/or a
formula for determining the value of the tree considering the size, condition,
and species value of the tree to be replaced; and
      7.   Evaluation and assessment of construction sites.
   D.   Coordination With Other Development Regulations: The provisions of
these regulations shall be cumulative with consistent provisions of other
regulations of the village and to the extent consistent shall be applied and
enforced simultaneously. Whenever inconsistent, the provision resulting in the
maximum protection, preservation, or planting of trees or the highest quality
of trees shall govern. No approvals or permits issued pursuant to such
regulations and codes shall be deemed to authorize the killing, destruction,
removal, or planting of trees without also complying with the applicable
provisions of these regulations.
   E.   Tree Preservation Plan:
      1.   Condition To Issuance Of Permit: As a condition to approval by the
plan commission, zoning board of appeals or village board for any zoning relief
including, but not limited to, planned unit developments, variations, and
special use permits, the owner shall show that a hardship exists upon the owner
as distinguished from an inconvenience if the owner is not allowed to remove
the tree and shall submit a tree preservation plan that includes the
information and detail specified herein.
      2.   Tree Preservation Plan (TPP): A TPP must include the following
information and detail:
         a.   The scale shall be the same as that of the site plan if a site
plan is submitted; the minimum scale for drawings is one inch equals fifty feet
(1" = 50').
         b.   The shape and dimensions of the lot or parcel, together with the
existing and proposed locations of structures and improvements, including
existing and proposed utilities.
         c.   Locations and dimensions of all building and parking lot setbacks
and existing or proposed easements.
         d.   Scaled depictions of the location, size, condition, drip line and
tag number of all protected trees located on the property. Actual drip lines of
trees must be shown; generic icons for trees that do not represent the tree
drip line are not acceptable. Tree location surveys are to be prepared by a
registered land surveyor and verified on site by a registered landscape
architect, certified arborist or forester. Both professionals must verify the
contents by seal or signature, whichever applies; and locations of all existing
trees with a trunk size of six inches (6") dbh, including trees within the
adjoining street rights of way, within twenty five feet (25') of the property
lines to be affected by the development (such as trees located within areas of
right of way improvements or off site utility work). Nonprotected tree species
need not be included. Trees proposed to remain shall be shown with a solid dot.
Trees to be removed shall be shown with an "x". Trees to be relocated shall be
shown with a hollow dot.
         e.   All trees shall be tagged in the field with identifying numbers,
using noncorrosive metal tags; a table identifying trees by size, common name,
scientific name, condition, and tag number shall be provided.
         f.   A list of all of the trees to be preserved and removed shall be
provided along with the survey.
         g.   The existing and proposed grade at the base of each tree shall be
indicated on the tree location survey either through showing existing and
proposed contours at a minimum two foot (2') interval or showing existing and
proposed spot grades.
         h.   If existing trees are to be relocated, the following shall be
required: The proposed location for such trees, together with a statement as to
how such trees are to be protected and/or stored during land clearance and
construction and how they are to be maintained after construction.
         i.   A protection plan for remaining protected trees, including the
type of protective fencing, in accordance with the standards set forth in these
regulations shall be detailed.
   F.   Removal Of Protected Trees:
      1.   If the village determines that preservation of trees cannot be
accomplished while facilitating a development or improvement project, the owner
shall provide for the replacement of the trees or payment in lieu for the value
of the trees lost (as provided in subsection H of this section).
      2.   An owner that removes a public tree or a protected tree shall
provide replacement of such tree(s) in accordance with a tree replacement plan
approved by the village.
      3.   An owner that has damaged a public tree such that the tree is dying
or diseased or is likely to die or become diseased shall replace such tree(s)
in accordance with a tree replacement plan approved by the village.
      4.   An owner that has damaged a protected tree such that the tree is
dying or diseased or is likely to die or become diseased shall provide
replacement of such tree(s) in accordance with a tree replacement plan approved
by the village.
   G.   Replacement Trees:
      1.   Any owner required by these regulations to make replacements for
trees as a part of the approved tree preservation plan shall make all such
replacements with a replacement tree selected from the village's recommended
species listed in section
10-2-15-2, table 1 of this chapter. Replacement trees shall either: a) equal or
exceed the same dbh size as trees removed; or b) consist of smaller trees, not
less than three inches (3") dbh, which add up to the caliper of the original
tree.
      2.   Replacement trees shall be documented on the final site plan or
landscape plan.
      3.   Replacement trees must be either balled and burlapped, or
containerized trees. They shall be northern grown in a nursery, and shall have
been transplanted not more than twice, the last transplanting being not less
than four (4) years prior to planting. All trees shall be tagged and identified
as to species, size, and place of origin. The developer prior to inspection by
the village shall not remove such tags. All trees (original or replacement)
determined by the village not to be of vigorous growing condition after two (2)
growing seasons shall be replaced at the beginning of the next succeeding
planting season, at no cost to the village. Documentation showing one hundred
percent (100%) survivorship shall be supplied to the village.
      4.   A performance bond or letter of credit shall be submitted with the
tree replacement plan as a guarantee that protected trees will be replaced
pursuant to the plan. The total bond or letter of credit shall be the
replacement cost as established in these regulations.
      5.   Replacement of protected trees shall be made within twelve (12)
months of the date of issuance of a building permit. The village upon request
may grant an extension of not more than twelve (12) months' time. Upon the
planting of the replacement trees and after the inspection and approval of the
replacement trees by the village representative, the amount of cash tree
replacement fee guarantee will be refunded to the applicant.
      6.   If a protected tree is damaged or razed during the construction
process in violation of the approved tree preservation plan, such tree shall be
replaced with new trees in accordance with the exchange rate, from the
village's recommended species listed in section
10-2-15-2, table 1 of this chapter. Village staff may, with just cause, waive
some or all of the following exchange rate due to unavoidable circumstances.
Final plans for the exchange rates or replacement trees are subject to review
and approval by the village.
      7.   Trees that are measured by height using arboricultural industry
standards (i.e., evergreens, etc.) that are removed shall be replaced with the
necessary number of trees to equal the height of the tree being replaced. In
order to maintain an equal exchange rate, if trees that are measured by caliper
inches are being replaced by trees measured by height; or if trees measured by
height are being replaced by trees measured by caliper inches; the number of
replacement trees planted shall be equal to or greater in cost than the type
and number of trees being removed.
      8.   For the purposes of interpreting this section, if there is a
fraction of an inch measurement less than one-half inch (1/2"), it may be
disregarded. If the fraction is one-half inch (1/2") or greater, it shall be
counted as one inch (1"). Such replacement shall be made within twelve (12)
months of the date of the removal of any protected tree(s) for which such
replacement tree is required.
      9.   All replacement trees shall be a minimum trunk size of three inches
(3") dbh. Any combination of tree sizes having a minimum of three inches (3")
dbh may be used to meet the requirement.
   H.   Cash In Lieu Of Replacement Trees: If it is determined by the village
that an insufficient area exists on the subject site that would support any or
all of the replacement trees, the property owner shall contribute one hundred
percent (100%) of the cost of the replacement trees to the village. The village
recognizes the International Society Of Arborists' "Guide For Plant Appraisal"
as the preferred method of determining the value of replacement trees. A
proposed dollar value, along with supporting documentation for the proposed
dollar value for the cost of the replacement trees shall be submitted to the
village for review and approval. The village shall determine the replacement
rate for trees requiring replacement pursuant to the guide set forth in section
10-2-15-5 of this chapter. Said funds shall be deposited into the general
facilities and equipment fund as a separate and distinct line item entitled
"tree replacement program" and be used for the sole purpose of planting trees
at locations determined by the village or hiring an arborist for professional
consultation.
   I.   Acceptable Tree Protection Methods: All trees on the subject site and
the property adjacent to the subject site that are within twenty five feet
(25') of a property line shared with the site, or that have a drip line
extending into the site, shall be protected from damage by the use of
acceptable tree protection measures in accordance with a tree preservation plan
approved by the village. For purposes of these regulations, acceptable tree
protection measures are those measures designed and implemented to reasonably
limit the damage to such protected trees while enabling lawful construction
activity consistent with best construction practices as determined by the
village. Acceptable tree protection measures include:
      1.   Fencing: The installation of tree protection fencing along the
perimeter of the drip line located within construction site, which shall remain
in place during construction and removed only when construction is completed or
as authorized by the village. The type of fencing shall be rigid chainlink
fencing, properly supported so as to be perpendicular to the surrounding
ground, and ground staked, at least four feet (4') in height. Movement of tree
protection fencing during the course of construction, whether temporarily or
permanently that could result in the compaction of soils is prohibited. The
proposed location of tree protection fencing shall be shown on the demolition
plan, lot redevelopment plan, or lot improvement plan. Fencing shall be
contained within the limits of the site and/or within the limits of the
adjacent public parkway. Fencing shall not encroach onto public streets and/or
sidewalks.
      2.   Grading, Construction Equipment, And Materials: All grading,
construction equipment, and materials shall be forbidden from encroaching
within the boundary of any tree's drip line. If the village should approve an
encroachment on any tree's drip line root zone, root pruning shall be
undertaken by a qualified arborist.
      3.   Materials Detrimental To Trees: The addition of soil or crushed
limestone or any other material which may be detrimental to trees shall not be
dumped within the drip line of any tree nor shall be located at any higher
location where drainage toward the tree(s) could conceivably affect the health
of said tree(s).
      4.   Storage Of Vehicles: No materials or vehicles shall be stored,
driven, or parked within the drip line of any tree.
      5.   Pruning: All such trees identified for preservation, which could be
negatively affected during the construction process, shall be pruned by a
qualified arborist to compensate for root loss during construction.
      6.   Utility Services: Any new utility services including water, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, gas, electric, telephone, and cable TV shall be installed
in proximity of protected trees by using extraordinary care such as directional
augering so as to not disturb the roots of protected trees.
      7.   Preservation Methods: Preservation methods that are to be used to
preserve the protected trees shall be clearly specified. If, in the opinion of
the village, the necessary precautions, as specified in the tree preservation
plan for development, were not undertaken before or during construction to
ensure the preservation of those trees, the site development permit for the
parcel shall not be issued or, if previously issued, may be revoked until such
time as compliance with the precautions is achieved.
      8.   Tree Consultant: The village shall, at its discretion, have the
right to retain a professional tree consultant/forester to review the tree
preservation plan and to submit a written report to the village. The
petitioning party shall reimburse all expenses incurred by the village.
      9.   Decreased Drip Lines And Protective Techniques Requests: Requests
for decreased drip lines and protective techniques are location specific and
must be approved as part of the zoning relief process. The village board may
request payment not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the replacement cost for
each tree when such request is granted. Techniques such as mulch mats (12
inches or more of wood mulch that attenuates damage by vehicles to tree roots)
shall be required in areas where temporary access requirements infringe on
protected tree drip lines.
   J.   Inspections:
      1.   A copy of the tree preservation plan shall be kept at the site
during the time that work is underway.
      2.   The permit holder must call the village's development department for
an inspection of the subject site once tree protection measures have been fully
implemented for a signoff by the village manager or designee. All protective
fencing must be in place prior to any tree removal or construction. The village
manager or designee shall make whatever inspections are required to ensure
compliance.
      3.   The village's inspector shall conduct regular scheduled and
unscheduled inspections throughout the construction time period to determine
conformance with the approved TPP.
      4.   The village manager or designee is authorized to issue a stop work
order for all construction work on the subject site if the owner fails to
comply with the requirements of the tree preservation plan. (Ord. 2010-04-07,
4-1-2010)
   K.   Appeals:
      1.   Appeals regarding the interpretation of the regulations or relief
from application of the tree preservation regulations shall be to the public
works committee. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2013-02-08, 2-21-2013)
      2.   An appeal may be taken within thirty (30) days from the date of the
decision appealed by filing with the village manager or designee a petition of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
      3.   Property owners seeking relief from the regulations must demonstrate
exceptional physical, environmental, or topographical conditions affecting a
site that pose practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship in preserving or
replacing a protected tree consistent with these regulations and good forestry
practice.
      4.   The commission shall hold a hearing on the appeal within thirty (30)
days of its filing with the village clerk. The commission shall render a
decision within thirty (30) days of the completion of the hearing on the
appeal. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
      5.   In the event that the party remains aggrieved, they may appeal the
decision of the public works committee to the Winfield village board of
trustees. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2013-02-08, 2-21-2013)
      6.   An appeal may be taken within thirty (30) days from the date of the
decision appealed by filing with the village clerk or designee a petition of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The village board shall hold a hearing
on the appeal within thirty (30) days of its filing with the village clerk. The
village board shall render a decision within thirty (30) days of the completion
of the hearing on the appeal.
   L.   Exemptions: The following activities are exempted from the village's
tree preservation regulations:
      1.   Tree Emergencies: The existence of any tree within the village that
has become an immediate danger or hazard to persons or property as a result of
any windstorm, flood, freeze, natural disaster, or sudden, unforeseen accident.
      2.   Pruning Compliance: Pruning of trees in compliance with the pruning
standard as instructed in ANSI A300.
      3.   Removal Of Hazardous, Diseased, And/Or Insect Infested Trees: The
following conditions are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and trees
shall be pruned or removed and properly disposed of by the owner within ten
(10) days following written notification by the village:
         a.   Trees and limbs that overhang any sidewalk, street, or other
public place that are hazardous to the public way, public property, or private
roads with public access.
         b.   Trees infected with Dutch elm disease, oak wilt, Asian longhorn
beetles, emerald ash borers, or other insects and diseases that are a serious
threat to the community's trees as determined by the village and/or the
Illinois department of agriculture.
         c.   Nonprotected trees.
   M.   Permit Revocation And Expiration: An owner shall have a duty to remove
the tree(s) identified in the tree preservation plan within ninety (90) days
after the date of approval by the village board as part of the zoning relief
process. An owner shall be authorized to remove the tree(s) identified in the
tree preservation plan in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth by
the village. An owner is subject to stop work order, suspension or revocation
by the village manager or designee if the owner violates the terms of the
permit or any other provision of these regulations.
   N.   Restitution; Penalties:
      1.   Destruction; Damage Prior To Permit: If any tree is damaged or
destroyed prior to the approval of a tree preservation plan as required by this
section and it is reasonable to infer that the damage or destruction was
effected so as to avoid the requirements of these regulations, the village may
require replacement for any such damaged or destroyed tree in addition to
compliance with any other applicable requirements of these regulations.
      2.   Penalties: Whoever violates any of the provisions of these
regulations, upon being found guilty of violation, shall be subject to the
following fines:
         a.   For failure to replace or to remedy damage caused to a public
tree in violation of these regulations, a minimum fine of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) and a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each such tree.
         b.   For removal of trees without an approved tree preservation plan
in violation of these regulations, a minimum fine of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) and a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
such tree.
         c.   For failure to replace any damaged or destroyed tree in violation
of these regulations, a minimum fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and
a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such tree.
         d.   A separate and distinct violation shall be deemed to have
occurred for each protected tree or public tree unlawfully damaged, removed,
and/or not replaced in violation of these regulations and a separate and
distinct violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each day that such
violation exists or continues. Any penalties imposed are in addition to any
required replacement.
         e.   If in the opinion of the village manager the violation of this
section is wilful and the destroyed protected tree had a diameter of eighteen
inches (18") or more then the village manager may assess additional damages
based on the value of the destroyed protected tree. The value of the tree will
be assessed in a report issued by a professional arborist retained by the
village based on best available information regarding tree species, size, and
condition.
   O.   Nonliability Of Village: Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed
to impose any liability upon the village or upon any of its officers or
employees or to relieve the owner of any private property from the duty to keep
trees and shrubs upon private property or under his control in a safe and
healthy condition. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-15-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Public trees shall be planted not less than four feet (4') from any sidewalk or
curb, except as otherwise provided below. The spacing between public trees in
subdivisions shall not be less than forty feet (40'). At street corners, trees
shall be located at least thirty feet (30') from intersection of the street
right of way provided.
As an alternative to the preceding paragraph, the village may require that the
subdivider install an equivalent number of trees of the same size in clusters
in a naturalistic way within the street right of way or within front yards of
adjacent lots, suitable trees existing before the subdivision may be counted
toward the requirement for trees. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-15-2: VARIETIES OF TREES:
The species of trees that are encouraged for use for replacement trees are
listed in table 1 of this section. Where the planting strip between the
sidewalk and street curb is less than eight feet (8') but greater than four
feet (4') wide requires prior review and approval from the village before
planting. No tree will be planted in a planting strip less than four feet (4')
wide as it will not promote a healthy and viable environment for the tree to
survive. Other tree species, including native plant materials, as determined
appropriate by the village, may be considered. Only small species of trees,
such as from the crabapple tree family (Malus), or hybrid trees with superior
disease and pest resistance shall be placed within twenty feet (20') of
overhead electrical service or other utilities.
   TABLE 1: RECOMMENDED - PROTECTED TREE SPECIES
Botanic Names Common Names
Botanic Names             Common Names
Abies concolor            White fir
Acer                      Maple: fairview, Norway, Schwedler, sugar hybrids,
                          crimson king
Amelanchier x grandiflora Apple serviceberry
Carya                     Hickory: shagbark, pignut, black, pale, water,
                          bitternut
Catalpa                   Catalpa
Celtis                    Hackberry
Cercis                    Redbud, whitebud - tree form only
Ginkgo biloba             Maidenhair
Gleditsia                 Honey locust: imperial, skyline, shademaster or
                          equivalent hybrid
Gymnocladus               Kentucky coffee tree
Juglans                   Walnut
Liriodendron              Tulip tree
Malus                     Crabapple; disease resistant variety, tree form only
Ostrya                    Ironwood
Picea                     Blue spruce, Norway spruce
Pinus                     White pine
Pyrus                     Pear: redspire, chanticleer or equivalent hybrid
Quercus                   Oak: white, swamp, burr, red, English
Syringa reticulata        Japanese lilac tree
Tilia                     Linden (basswood): Redmond, little leaf, greenspire
                          or equivalent hybrid
 
Trees designated as nonrecommended trees or unacceptable for use as replacement
trees are listed in table 2 of this section:
   TABLE 2: LIST OF NONRECOMMENDED TREES
Botanic Names Common Names
Botanic Names          Common Names
Acer negundo           Box elder (ashleaf maple)
Acer saccharinum       Silver maple
Ailanthus altissima    Tree of heaven (Chinese sumac)
Cornus racemosa        Grey dogwood
Elaeagnus angustifolia Russian olive
Fraxinus               Ash: green, white, autumn purple or equivalent hybrid
Ginkgo biloba          Female ginkgo
Morus                  Mulberry
Pinus                  Red Pine, Austrian Pine
Platanus occidentalis  American sycamore (buttonwood)
Populus                Poplars: white (silver), cottonwood (except cottonless
                       cottonwood)
Rhamnus                Buckthorn: common, glossy
Robinia pseudoacacia   Black locust
Salix                  Willows: weeping
Ulmus parvifolia       Chinese elm (lacebark elm)
Ulmus pumila           Siberian elm
 
(Ord. 2016-12-30, 12-15-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-12-14, 12-15-2022)
10-2-15-3: TREE STANDARDS:
Trees must be either balled and burlapped, or containerized trees. Trees shall
have a minimum trunk diameter of two inches (2") measured at breast height.
Trees will be northern grown in a nursery and in good health and shall have
been transplanted not more than twice, the last transplanting being not less
than four (4) years prior to planting. All trees shall be tagged and identified
as to species, size, and place of origin. These tags shall not be removed until
inspected by the village.
Trees will be properly planted based on tree type, soil type, time of year, and
ground surface and drainage conditions. The tree will be properly pruned prior
to planting to assure vigorous growth. All trees (original or replacement)
determined by the village not to be in vigorous growing condition after two (2)
years of growing seasons shall be replaced at the beginning of the next
succeeding planting season, at no cost to the village. (Ord. 2016-12-30, 12-15-
2016)
10-2-15-4: PLANTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Planting: Trees will have a hole excavated for the tree to a depth and
diameter that is appropriate for the tree, soil type, and local ground surface
conditions. Each tree will be planted with the root flare at grade, securely
planted, properly fertilized, and backfilled with excavated soil and mulch as
necessary for soil types. The tree will be checked to ensure that it is at
grade within two (2) to four (4) weeks after planting and, if necessary, the
tree will be adjusted to be at grade level. All planting shall be done during
the proper season. No planting shall be done in frozen soil or during
unfavorable weather conditions.
   B.   Care Instructions: Written instructions on the care of the tree will be
provided at the time of planting. These care instructions will include, at the
minimum, directions on watering and any fertilizing requirements for the
species of tree that has been planted. (Ord. 2016-12-30, 12-15-2016)
10-2-15-5: TREE EVALUATION CRITERIA:
   A.   Evaluation Criteria: Tree evaluation criteria will include:
Species (scientific and common names)
Diameter of trunk at breast height
Diameter of drip line from trunk
Rating of tree condition (see below)
   B.   Tree Rating Guidance: The general condition of each tree shall be rated
as follows:
 
          Trees having less than 10 percent deadwood in the crown that is
Excellent attributable to normal causes, have no other observed problems, and
          require no remedial action.
Good      Trees having less than 20 percent deadwood in the crown and have only
          1 or 2 minor problems that are easily corrected with normal care.
          Trees having less than 30 percent deadwood in the crown, with 1 or 2
Fair      minor problems that are not eminently lethal to the tree and no
          significant decay or structural problems, but the tree requires
          remedial care above normal care in order to ensure continued health.
          Trees having over 50 percent deadwood in the crown, major decay or
Poor      structural problems, and/or severely involved with insects, disease,
          or other problems that even if corrected would not result in the long
          term survival of the tree.
Dead      Tree exhibiting less than 10 percent sign of life.
 
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-15-6: REFERENCES AND WEBSITES:
International Society Of Arboriculture: http://www.isa-arbor.com/home.aspx
ANSI A300: http://www.mac-isa.org
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-2-16: SIGNS 1 :
   A.   Purpose: This section establishes comprehensive regulations for the
control of signs and other street graphics in order to preserve, protect and
promote the public health, safety and general welfare. More specifically, this
section is intended to assist in achieving the following:
      1.   To foster high quality development and enhance the economic vitality
of existing businesses/industries by promoting the reasonable, orderly and
effective display of street graphics while preserving the character of the
community and providing reasonable yet appropriate conditions for identifying
businesses and services rendered in commercial districts by controlling the
size, type and design of signs in relation to the type and size of
establishment.
      2.   To protect pedestrians and motorists from any damage or injury that
might result from the improper construction, placement or use of street
graphics.
      3.   To ensure that signs are designed as integral architectural elements
of the building and site to which they principally relate.
      4.   To preserve the value of private property by assuring the
compatibility of street graphics with nearby land uses. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-
2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 9, chapter 3 of this code.
10-2-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions noted below apply uniquely to this chapter and supersede any
conflicting definitions found in chapter 1 of this title. The rules for
interpretation found in chapter 1 of this title shall be applicable to these
definitions:
The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is discretionary.
ADMINISTRATOR: The zoning administrator of the village.
ALTER: To change the size, shape, height, lettering or other similar
characteristics of a sign.
APPEAL: A procedure whereby any person aggrieved by any decision or order of
the administrator in any matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of
title 9, chapter 3 of this code and this section
10-2-16 may seek relief from the zoning board of appeals.
AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE: A device, linked to a financial institution's account
records, which is able to carry out transactions, including, but not limited
to, account transfers, deposits, cash withdrawals, balance inquiries, and
mortgage and loan payments.
AWNING: Any structure entirely supported by the wall to which it is attached or
extending from a building entrance and which has a frame covered by a temporary
material and/or which can be retracted against the wall by which it is
supported.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The linear length of the outside building wall facing the
public right of way or the linear length of the outside building wall facing a
parking area which serves as the primary access for the subject use.
CANOPY: Any permanent exterior roof structure attached to a building at the
inner end and supported on the outer end in conformance with the building code
1  of the village.
COMPREHENSIVE SIGN PLAN: A format approved by the plan commission for all signs
to be located in a unified business center.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, rehang, place, affix or relocate and
includes the painting of lettering for signs.
GASOLINE STATION: A premises used primarily to dispense fuels for motor
vehicles.
HEIGHT OF SIGN: The measurement from the top of the highest element of the sign
to the average level of the finished ground surface around any sign located
more than twenty five feet (25') from a street right of way; the established
street elevation when the sign is located within twenty five feet (25') from
one street right of way, or the average of all street elevations when the sign
is located within twenty five feet (25') from more than one street right of
way.
LOT: A parcel, tract, plot or area of land accessible by means of a street or
other permanently reserved principal means of access. It may be a single parcel
separately described in a deed or plat which is recorded in the office of the
county recorder of deeds, or it may include parts of or a combination of such
parcels when adjacent to one another and used as one.
MARQUEE: Any hood or awning of permanent construction supported entirely by the
building and projecting from the building's wall over a sidewalk or pedestrian
thoroughfare.
MOVIE OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT THEATER: A fully enclosed building with fixed seats
arranged in an auditorium fashion where motion pictures or live entertainment
acts are presented.
PERSON: Any mature person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
PREMISES: That portion of a lot or building occupied by a single occupant,
exclusive of common area, if any, shared with adjacent occupants.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display, message or illustration
which is affixed to, or represented directly or indirectly upon, a building,
structure or piece of land so as to be seen from out of doors and which directs
attention to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization or business. However, a "sign" shall not include any display of
official court or public notices, nor shall it include the flag, emblem or
insignia of a nation, political unit, school or religious group.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity or service sold, offered or manufactured, or an
entertainment offered on the premises where the sign is located or to which it
is affixed.
SIGN, AWNING, CANOPY AND MARQUEE: A sign that is mounted or painted on, or
attached to, an awning, canopy or marquee.
SIGN, BACKLIT AWNING/CANOPY/MARQUEE: Any awning, canopy or marquee that is
constructed substantially of transparent or translucent material and directly
illuminated artificially from the interior side of the material in such a
manner that the awning, canopy or marquee is made visible or luminous.
SIGN, BANNER: A temporary sign applied to or constructed of paper, plastic or
fabric of any kind with or without frame, used to identify or attract attention
to a location, object, institution, product, service or business. Flags of
nations, states, political subdivisions, businesses or institutions shall not
be considered banners for purposes of this chapter.
SIGN, BILLBOARD: See definition of Sign, Off Site.
SIGN, BULLETIN BOARD: A sign that identifies an institution or organization on
whose premises it is located and which contains the name of the institution or
organization and announcements of events or activities occurring on the site.
Such a sign may also present a greeting or similar message.
SIGN, CANOPY: See definition of Sign, Awning, Canopy And Marquee.
SIGN CONTRACTOR: A person or entity who performs work for compensation in
connection with the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
moving, improvement, maintenance, conversion or manufacture of any sign.
SIGN, FLASHING: A directly or indirectly illuminated sign where the source of
illumination is not maintained constant or stationary in the intensity or color
at all times when such sign is in use. For the purpose of this chapter, a
revolving sign, or any advertising device which attracts attention by moving
parts operated by mechanical equipment or movement caused by natural sources,
whether illuminated, indirectly illuminated or not, shall be considered a
flashing sign.
SIGN, GROUND: Any detached sign which has its bottom portion erected upon or
supported directly on the ground.
SIGN, IDENTIFICATION: A sign where the text gives the name and address of a
building, business, development or establishment. Such a sign may also be
wholly or partly devoted to a readily recognized symbol.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: Any sign which is illuminated by light sources.
SIGN, INFLATABLE: Any sign or inflatable device of more than two (2) cubic feet
in capacity designed to be filled with air or a gas lighter than air, used
singly or in clusters, displayed to attract the attention of the public. This
definition shall include balloons and balloon signs.
SIGN, MARQUEE: See definition of Sign, Awning, Canopy And Marquee.
SIGN, MONUMENT: See definition of Sign, Ground.
SIGN, OFF SITE: A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a location other than
the premises on which the sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, POLE: A sign mounted on one or more freestanding pole(s) so that the
bottom edge of the sign is a minimum height above grade level.
SIGN, POLITICAL: Any display utilized for the purpose of proposing or opposing
the election of a candidate running for public office or ballot measure.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign wholly or partly dependent upon a building for support
and which projects more than twelve inches (12") in a perpendicular fashion
from such building.
SIGN, PYLON: A narrow sign with a fully enclosed and continuous exterior face
running from the top of the sign to the ground.
SIGN, REAL ESTATE: A sign pertaining to the sale or lease of the lot or tract
of land on which the sign is located, or to the sale or lease of one or more
structures or a portion thereof located thereon.
SIGN, ROOF: A sign mounted on the roof of a building.
SIGN STRUCTURE: The sign and all parts associated with its mounting.
SIGN, TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign intended for a limited or intermittent period of
display.
SIGN, WALL: Any sign erected against the wall of any building with the plane of
the face parallel to the plane of the wall.
SIGN, WINDOW: An advertising sign affixed to a window or placed within twelve
inches (12") inside a window.
UNIFIED BUSINESS CENTER: A premises containing four (4) or more individual
offices or businesses sharing a common building entrance or private parking
lot.
VILLAGE: The village of Winfield, DuPage County, Illinois.
VILLAGE BOARD: The president and board of trustees of the village of Winfield.
(Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
10-2-16-2: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Zoning Administrator Designated: The village manager or his designee is
designated as the zoning administrator of this chapter.
   B.   Zoning Administrator Duties: The zoning administrator is hereby
authorized and directed to administer and enforce the provisions of title 9,
chapter 3 of this code and this section
10-2-16. This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the
following specific duties:
      1.   To review and pass upon applications for sign permits in accordance
with title 9, chapter 3 of this code;
      2.   To inspect existing and newly constructed signs to determine
compliance with title 9, chapter 3 of this code and this section
10-2-16; and where there are violations, to initiate appropriate notification;
      3.   To maintain up to date records of said applications and of any
official actions taken pursuant thereto;
      4.   To periodically review the provisions of title 9, chapter 3 of this
code and this section
10-2-16 to determine whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations
on these matters to the village board;
      5.   To provide information to the general public on matters related to
title 9, chapter 3 of this code and this section
10-2-16; and
      6.   To perform such other duties as the village board may from time to
time prescribe. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
10-2-16-3: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Messages:
      1.   No sign shall be permitted which purports to be or is an imitation
of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal.
      2.   No sign shall make use of the words "Stop", "Go Slow", "Caution",
"Warning", "Look", "Drive In", "Danger" or any word, phrase, symbol or
character in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
      3.   No sign shall recite that real property is zoned for land uses, or
will be zoned for land uses in the future, under the zoning rules and
regulations of the village, when in fact such real estate is not so zoned.
      4.   No sign on real estate shall declare that the property is reserved
for or is being held for future land use which is inconsistent with the then
existing zoning classification of the village for the land, or any words of
like import of a similar nature.
      5.   The primary emphasis of sign messages shall be on business
identification not product or service advertisement. Not more than thirty
percent (30%) total of the face may be used for product or service reference.
Selling slogans or other nonindexing messages are not permitted.
   B.   Compliance With Village Provisions: All signs must conform to the
regulations and design standards of the building code, the electrical code and
all other applicable ordinances and regulations of the village.
   C.   Location: The following restrictions shall govern sign location:
      1.   No sign shall be erected or placed so as to prevent free ingress
and/or egress from any door, window or fire escape, nor shall such sign be
attached to any standpipe, fire escape or any other safety related device.
      2.   No sign shall interfere with any opening required for ventilation.
      3.   Signs shall be located in such a way that they maintain horizontal
and vertical clearance of all overhead electrical conductors in accordance with
national electrical code specifications 1 , depending on voltages concerned.
However, in no case shall a sign be installed closer than twenty four inches
(24") horizontally or vertically from any conductor or public utility guywire.
      4.   No sign may be so located as to obstruct the view from a public
thoroughfare of any existing sign, display window or major entrance of an
adjacent business.
      5.   No sign shall be maintained at any location where by reason of its
position, size, shape or color, it may obstruct, impair, obscure, interfere
with the view of, or be confused with any traffic control sign, signal or
device or where it may interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
      6.   No sign shall be located in any of the following vision triangles
formed by intersecting streets: At any intersection where at least one of the
intersecting streets is a major or collector street as defined in the official
map of the village. The sides of the triangle formed by the centerlines of the
intersecting streets shall be one hundred twenty feet (120') in length as
measured outward from the point of intersections of said centerlines along such
centerlines. At all other intersections, each of such sides shall be eighty
feet (80') in length.
      7.   No signs shall be nailed, tacked or otherwise affixed to trees or
other vegetation.
      8.   No advertising other than a permitted sign shall be placed on any
sign support.
      9.   No signs shall be placed on parked vehicles or trailers where the
apparent purpose is to advertise a product or direct people to a business or
activity located on the same or nearby property.
      10.   Any projecting or hanging sign must have a vertical clearance from
the bottom of the sign to the grade below of eight feet (8'). (Ord. 2010-07-23,
7-15-2010)
      11.   No sign facing the side or rear lot line of an abutting
residentially zoned lot shall be located within twenty five feet (25') of that
residential lot line. (Ord. 2016-06-15, 6-2-2016)
   D.   Movable Sign Parts:
      1.   No sign or its parts shall be permitted to be movable or rotating;
nor shall any sign have illuminated effects which convey the illusion of
movement. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
      2.   With the exception of approved bulletin boards, theater signs,
electronic message centers and certain temporary signs, no sign may contain
movable letters or other changeable copy. (Ord. 2016-06-15, 6-2-2016)
      3.   All manually movable items on a sign, such as covers to service
openings, shall be secured by chains or hinges.
   E.   Maintenance: All signs (including those for which no permit is
required) and their supports shall be kept in a safe, presentable and good
structural condition in accordance with the following requirements and with the
applicable codes and ordinances of the village:
      1.   The owner of any sign shall keep the sign and support structure
clean and properly treated so as to prevent rust, peeling, flaking or fading.
      2.   Broken panels, missing letters, flaking or peeling paint and other
damage to a sign or support structure shall be repaired within thirty (30) days
of its occurrence.
      3.   The area surrounding all signs shall be maintained free of any
debris or nuisance and any related grassed area or landscaping shall be kept
trimmed and in a healthy condition.
   F.   Removal Of Signs:
      1.   The village may cause any sign which is an immediate peril to
persons or property to be removed summarily and without notice.
      2.   Any sign which is located on property which becomes vacant and
unoccupied for a period of three (3) months or more, or any sign which pertains
to a time, event or purpose which no longer applies, shall be taken down and
removed by the owner, agent or persons having the beneficial use of the
structure or property upon which such sign may be found. Permanent signs
applicable to a business temporarily suspended because of a change of ownership
or management may be granted an additional three (3) month time extension by
the village board after written application. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 9-1-1F of this code.
10-2-16-4: UNIFIED BUSINESS CENTER SIGN PLAN:
   A.   Comprehensive Sign Plan Required: No permit shall be issued for a sign
to be located in a unified business center until a comprehensive sign plan has
been approved for the center and the sign complies with the provisions thereof.
   B.   Application For Sign Plan Approval: Application for approval of a
comprehensive sign plan shall be made in writing to the plan commission 1  on a
form and in a manner prescribed by them.
The application shall include a format for all signs to be used in the center,
including their maximum size, color, location, illumination details, lettering
type, mounting details and (if any) landscaping details.
   C.   Approval Of Sign Plan: Approval of a comprehensive sign plan shall be
at the discretion of the village board after receiving the recommendation of
the plan commission.
The criteria for approval of a comprehensive sign plan shall be the following:
      1.   Every sign shall have good scale and proportion in its design and in
its visual relationship to the other signs, buildings and surroundings.
      2.   The signs in the plan shall be designed as an integral architectural
element of the building and site to which they principally relate and shall not
appear as "add ons" or intrusions.
      3.   The colors, materials and lighting of every sign shall be restrained
and harmonious with the building and site to which it principally relates.
      4.   The number of graphic elements and letters shall be held to the
minimum needed to convey each sign's major message and shall be composed in
proportion to the area of the sign's face.
      5.   Each sign shall be compatible with signs on adjoining premises.
   D.   Identification Sign: A unified business center may have one
identification sign for the center in addition to the signs permitted for each
separate business. Such identification signs may only include the name and
graphic logo of the center, address of the center and also may include a time
and/or temperature sign.
The permitted area of such identification sign shall be based upon a ratio of
ten (10) square feet per one acre of the center's site, up to a maximum of
seventy five (75) square feet. Every unified business center is permitted an
identification sign of at least four (4) square feet per sign face.
Otherwise, unified business center identification signs shall conform to the
regulations of the sign type to which they most closely resemble.
   E.   Directory Signs: Unified business centers may have common directory
signs to guide pedestrians to individual businesses on the site. Such signs
shall be limited to three (3) square feet per business listed on the sign.
Centers must have a minimum of five (5) businesses to qualify to have one
directory sign and may have one additional sign for each five (5) businesses.
   F.   Temporary Seasonal Signs: Unified business centers are allowed
temporary seasonal or community event banners that include only the name of the
unified business center and identification of a season, holiday or community
event and do not include the name of any individual business, merchant or
proprietor, on the condition that:
      1.   The banners be displayed for a period no longer than ninety (90)
consecutive days and, once removed, not be displayed again for at least forty
five (45) days.
      2.   The banners are suspended from an existing structure serving another
primary purpose, such as light poles (which structure was not erected just to
support the banners), and provided further that the banners are not attached to
any building or any other sign or sign support.
      3.   The banners do not exceed six feet (6') in length (as hung) and
thirty one inches (31") in width (as hung) and are at least thirteen feet (13')
above the ground at their lowest point (as hung). (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 2 of this code.
10-2-16-5: ALLOWED SIGNS; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Awning, Canopy And Marquee:
      1.   Projections: No awning or canopy signs may project above or beyond
the awning or canopy to which they are mounted; however signs may be hung
beneath canopies.
      2.   General Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to erect awnings,
canopies or marquees or awning signs, canopy signs and marquee signs upon
public property except as provided in this chapter:
         a.   All awnings, canopies and marquees and awning signs, canopy signs
and marquee signs to be erected upon public property, or portions thereof,
including streets, sidewalks and alleys, must be approved by the village board
in accordance with this chapter.
         b.   All awnings, canopies and marquees and awning signs, canopy signs
and marquee signs erected on public or private property shall be securely
fastened and constructed in accordance with the building codes adopted by the
village of Winfield.
         c.   No portion of any awning, canopy and marquee or awning sign,
canopy sign and marquee sign shall be less than seven feet six inches (7'6")
above the level of the public or private walkway and in no case shall such
structures be erected over any public way used for vehicular traffic. No
awning, canopy or marquee and awning sign, canopy sign or marquee sign shall be
permitted to extend beyond a point one foot (1') inside the street curb line.
         d.   No advertising shall be placed on any awning, canopy or marquee
and awning sign, canopy sign or marquee sign, except as may be permitted for
signs under this chapter.
         e.   If awnings, canopies or marquees are used to display a primary
identification sign, the area of such sign may not exceed twenty five percent
(25%) of the surface of the awning, canopy or marquee or six (6) square feet,
whichever is less.
         f.   If awnings, canopies or marquees are used as a secondary sign,
lettering may be placed on the edge of an awning, canopy or marquee hanging
perpendicular to the street if the lettering is nine inches (9") or less in
height.
      3.   Existing Awnings, Canopies And Marquees: All awnings, canopies and
marquees maintained over any public street, sidewalk or alley, which are in
existence on the adoption of this chapter, shall not be repaired, altered or
moved unless said awning, canopy or marquee is made to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
   B.   Ground Signs:
      1.   Location: No ground sign shall be located closer than one hundred
feet (100') from another ground sign on the same premises.
      2.   Sign Faces: No ground sign shall contain more than two (2) faces.
      3.   Height:
         a.   Commercial property (non-town center zoned): No part of a ground
sign or related structure shall be higher than eight feet (8').
         b.   Town center (TC) zoned property and residential zoned property
(noncommercial): No part of a ground sign or related structure shall be higher
than six feet (6').
      4.   Area:
         a.   Commercial property (non-town center zoned): The maximum
permitted area for a ground sign is one square foot for each one foot (1') of
display frontage, up to a maximum sign area of forty (40) square feet for each
single sign face.
         b.   Town center (TC) zoned property and residential zoned property
(noncommercial): The maximum permitted area for a ground sign is one square
foot for each one foot (1') of display frontage, up to a maximum sign area of
thirty (30) square feet for each single sign face.
Masonry, wooden bases and landscaping incorporated as part of a ground sign
shall not be counted as part of the permitted sign area as long as the masonry
or wooden base does not contain lettering or graphic symbols.
      5.   Monument Signs: Monument signs should have a minimum of seventy five
(75) square feet of landscaping around the base, consisting of at least fifty
percent (50%) evergreens. (Ord. 2016-06-15, 6-2-2016)
   C.   Permanent Window Signs:
      1.   Method Of Signage: All permanent window signs shall be painted,
metal leafed, or in some other manner permanently applied to either side of the
glass of an exterior building window or door. No application using an adhesive
shall be permitted unless the zoning administrator determines that the
application is safe and will be permanent.
      2.   Sign Area: The maximum permitted area for permanent window signs is
twenty percent (20%) of the area of the subject window. However, the area used
for permanent window signs shall be deducted from the allowable area for wall
signs or roof signs.
Permanent window signs must be confined to the glass of the window and shall
not encroach upon the frame, mullions or other supporting features of the
glass.
   D.   Pole Signs:
      1.   Location: The bottom of the sign face structure on a pole sign must
be at least eight feet (8') from the ground and no pole sign shall be located
closer than one hundred feet (100') from another pole sign on the same
premises. No pole sign is permitted on frontage in any business zoning district
unless the business building(s) is located more than forty feet (40') back from
the street side property line.
      2.   Sign Faces: No pole sign shall contain more than two (2) faces. Said
faces of a pole sign shall be parallel and located no more than two feet (2')
apart.
      3.   Structural Restrictions: No pole sign shall have more than three (3)
poles nor shall any pole have a cross sectional area at any point greater than
one square foot.
      4.   Height: The maximum height of a pole sign shall be twelve feet (12')
unless the sign is set back farther than the required minimum setback. In that
case, a bonus of three inches (3") in height is permitted for each foot of
additional setback, to a maximum height equal to the average height of the
building to which the sign relates.
      5.   Sign Area: The maximum permitted area for pole signs is one square
foot for each one foot (1') of display frontage, up to a maximum sign area of
twenty five (25) square feet for each single sign face in any business zoning
district.
   E.   Projecting Signs:
      1.   Projections Restricted: No projecting sign shall project more than
six feet (6') from the plane of the wall nor closer than two feet (2') from the
curb line, or, if there is no curb, the nearest edge of the street pavement.
The innermost point of a projecting sign face shall be no more than one foot
(1') from the plane of the wall.
No portion of any projecting sign shall be less than seven feet six inches
(7'6") above the level of the public or private walkway and in no case shall
such structure be erected over any public way used for vehicular traffic.
      2.   Sign Faces: No projecting sign shall contain more than two (2) faces
and the faces of a projecting sign shall be parallel and located no more than
one foot (1') apart.
      3.   Movement: Projecting sign may swing, but all projecting signs must
be permanently mounted.
      4.   Sign Area: The maximum permitted area for any projecting sign is
four (4) square feet per face.
   F.   Pylon Signs:
      1.   Construction Requirements: All sides of a pylon sign must be
enclosed and extend in a continuous plane from the top to bottom of the sign.
      2.   Location:
         a.   No pylon sign may be located closer than one hundred feet (100')
from another pylon sign on the same premises.
         b.   No pylon sign is permitted on frontage in any business zoning
district unless the business building(s) is located more than forty feet (40')
back from the street side property line.
      3.   Sign Faces: No more than two (2) faces of a pylon sign may contain
lettering or graphic symbols and said faces of a pylon sign containing
lettering or graphic symbols shall be parallel and located no more than two
feet (2') apart.
      4.   Height: The maximum height of a pylon sign shall be twelve feet
(12') unless the sign is set back farther than the required minimum setback. In
that case, a bonus of three inches (3") in height is permitted for each foot of
additional setback, to a maximum height equal to the average height of the
building to which the sign relates.
      5.   Sign Area: The maximum permitted area for a pylon sign is one square
foot for each one foot (1') of display frontage, up to a maximum sign area of
twenty five (25) square feet for each single sign face in any business zoning
district.
   G.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Temporary Signs Associated With Events: Individuals, businesses or
organizations may apply for a special event sign permit. The village board will
review all such requests. Special event sign permits may provide a time limit
for displaying the sign.
      2.   Temporary Advertising Signs On Commercial Property: Sandwich board
signs advertising sale items, daily specials or similar messages may be
displayed during open business hours only or during daily specials and may not
be placed in a manner which impedes traffic on sidewalks, driveways or parking
lots. Sandwich board signs shall have a maximum area of six (6) square feet per
sign face.
      3.   Pennants, Banners And Searchlights: Pennants, banners, searchlights
and similar displays and devices designed to attract the attention of potential
customers, and related to grand openings, going out of business, emergency
information and similar purposes are subject to the following:
         a.   Searchlights may be permitted in connection with grand opening
displays but they must be oriented skyward not breaking an angle of forty five
degrees (45°) from the ground, and they may not be operated outside of open
business hours. In no case shall searchlights be operated between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
         b.   Signs or similar displays may only be displayed for ninety (90)
days per calendar year per permit.
         c.   No temporary sign shall cover more than ten percent (10%) of any
wall nor more than seventy five percent (75%) of any window (except going out
of business signs, which may cover 100 percent of any window).
         d.   Ground signs may not exceed four (4) square feet or four feet
(4') in height.
      4.   Businesses: Temporary signs for businesses shall not be allowed on
residential property.
      5.   Construction Signs: One construction sign per construction project
denoting the name of the project, the architect, engineer, contractor and/or
lending agency for the project. Such sign shall not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet in area in residential districts or forty eight (48) square feet in
commercial or industrial districts, nor shall such signs be erected prior to
the beginning of construction for which a valid building permit has been
issued. They shall be confined to the site of construction and shall be removed
ten (10) days after completion of construction or the expiration of the
building permit.
   H.   Time And Temperature Signs:
      1.   General Provisions: Time and temperature signs are regarded as
general public service signs, therefore, only one-third (1/3) of the portion of
such signs displaying time or temperature numbers shall be counted for purposes
of determining permitted sign area. Otherwise, time and temperature signs shall
conform to the regulations of the sign type to which they most clearly
resemble.
      2.   Display Area: Time and temperature signs shall have a display area
for numbers of a minimum of two feet (2') in one dimension and a maximum of
four feet (4') in the largest dimension.
      3.   Readings To Be Accurate: Time and temperature signs must be adjusted
to present accurate readings.
      4.   Frequency Of Reading Changes:
         a.   Temperature signs shall not change except when the temperature
changes one degree (1°), unless the display face is used for alternate time
readings.
         b.   With the exception of a second hand, time signs shall be
permitted to change no more frequently than one minute intervals, unless the
display face is used for alternate temperature readings.
         c.   If the same display face is used for alternating time and
temperature readings, the frequency of change shall be no more than once every
fifteen (15) seconds.
   I.   Wall Signs:
      1.   Design Restrictions:
         a.   No wall sign shall extend above or beyond the wall to which it is
attached.
         b.   No wall sign shall project more than twelve inches (12") beyond
the plane of the wall to which it is attached.
         c.   All mounting brackets and other hardware used to affix a sign to
a wall shall be concealed by the sign or integrated into the design of the
sign.
      2.   Location: No wall sign shall be located higher than eighty five
percent (85%) of the average height of the total building elevations parallel
to and adjacent to the sign.
      3.   Sign Areas: The maximum permitted area for a wall sign is nine-
tenths (0.9) of a square foot for each one foot (1') of display frontage, but
shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet. However, if an awning sign or
permanent window sign is mounted on the same frontage, the area used for either
of those signs shall be deducted from the allowable area of a wall sign.
      4.   Separate Structure Required: No signs may be painted directly on any
wall. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
   J.   Electronic Message Centers (EMC):
      1.   Location: No EMC sign may be located closer than one hundred feet
(100') from residential zoned property.
      2.   Duration: The electronic message shall not change more than once
every ten (10) seconds.
      3.   Effects: Flashing, blinking, scrolling, chasing, animation, and
other similar effects shall be prohibited.
      4.   Area: The sign area of an EMC must be included as part of the total
square footage of a permitted ground sign, and shall not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the total square footage of a permitted ground sign.
Exception: An existing message center shall be allowed to be exchanged with an
electronic message center of the same size.
      5.   Message: When an EMC message changes, the prior message shall
disappear simultaneously with the appearance of the new message.
      6.   Light Adjustment: A photocell to allow the EMC brightness to
automatically adjust to the ambient light shall be required. (Ord. 2016-06-15,
6-2-2016)
10-2-16-6: ALLOWED SECONDARY SIGNS:
Certain business operations are hereby found to be unique with respect to their
sign requirements and therefore justified to be permitted to have secondary
signs as specified below. These include:
Gasoline stations. Gasoline stations are unique because their primary functions
are performed out of doors in a manner prescribed by state statutes.
Movie and live entertainment theaters. These theaters are unique because of the
rapid turnover of the name of their entertainment product.
Restaurants with drive-through service. Restaurants with drive-through service
are unique because of their need to display additional helpful information to
patrons.
In addition to the signs permitted by other sections of this chapter, the
following signs are permitted uniquely to the following operations:
   A.   Gasoline Stations:
      1.   Two (2) signs per pump island which designate the function of the
island as "self-service" or "full service". Such signs shall not have more than
two (2) faces and shall not exceed three (3) square feet per face.
      2.   One sign per type of fuel sold which designates the price of that
fuel. Such signs shall not have more than two (2) faces and shall not exceed
six (6) square feet per face. The sign area for more than one type of fuel may
be combined into one sign.
      3.   One nonilluminated sign identifying the service performed in each
service bay may be placed over the opening to each bay. Such signs shall have
one face and shall not exceed three (3) square feet each.
      4.   One nonilluminated nameplate identifying the owner or operator is
permitted adjacent to the doorway of the station. Such nameplate shall have one
face and shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area.
      5.   Any sign required by state or federal government.
   B.   Movie And Live Entertainment Theaters: Each theater may have one sign
of up to fifty (50) square feet which will accommodate changeable lettering
copy. A theater's changeable copy sign may have two (2) faces if it is
freestanding, but both faces must be parallel and located no more than two feet
(2') apart. Said changeable copy sign may be located on a marquee, provided it
does not project above or beyond the structural limits of such marquee, nor
does it project closer than two feet (2') from the curb line. Otherwise, a
theater's changeable copy sign shall conform to the regulations for the sign
type to which it most nearly resembles.
   C.   Commercial Or Industrial Buildings: Signs on or adjacent to doors of
commercial or industrial buildings displaying information such as the names and
address of the occupant, the hours of operation, or instructions for
deliveries. Such signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area, shall not
contain letters exceeding six inches (6") in height and shall not be
illuminated. Where multiple tenants share the same door, the sign may display
the names and addresses of each tenant.
   D.   Construction Sites: Signs at construction sites as required by section
9-8-3 of this code.
   E.   Automated Teller Machine Signs:
      1.   Signs for automated teller machines shall not be considered off site
signs and may be allowed so long as the sign is located on the same premises as
the automated teller machine for which it is advertising.
      2.   Letter height shall not exceed twelve inches (12").
      3.   In no case shall the sign area exceed twelve (12) square feet.
      4.   The sign face shall be oriented to the street, internal driveway or
parking areas.
      5.   The sign may contain a bank logo as part of the sign area, but it
shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the sign area.
      6.   Signage customarily associated with the automated teller machine
which provides instructions as to usage shall be permitted directly on the
machine.
   F.   Drive-Through Restaurant Signs:
      1.   Each drive-through restaurant is permitted two (2) freestanding menu
signs. A menu sign shall be used to display the published menu and pricing.
      2.   The maximum area of each such sign shall be thirty two (32) square
feet.
      3.   The maximum height of such signs shall be six feet (6'). (Ord. 2010-
07-23, 7-15-2010)
10-2-16-7: SIGN AREA:
   A.   Maximum Sign Area: Except as provided in sections
10-2-16-4,
10-2-16-5 and
10-2-16-6 of this chapter, the maximum permitted sign area for one business
shall be as follows:
 
Display Frontage (In Feet) Maximum Allowable Area For All Signs Added Together
   1 - 25               0.9 sq. ft. for each 1' of display frontage
   26 - 75              1.1 sq. ft. for each 1' of display frontage
   76 - 100             1.3 sq. ft. for each 1' of display frontage
   101 and above        1.5 sq. ft. for each 1' of display frontage
 
This maximum permitted area may be split up between as many signs and sign
types as desired by the applicant, subject to the maximum sizes permitted for
each sign type indicated in section
10-2-16-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Calculation Of Sign Area: The following methods shall be used to
calculate the sign area of various types of signs:
      1.   For ground signs, pole signs, projecting signs, pylon signs and roof
signs, the sign area shall be calculated by measuring the entire area enclosed
within the smallest regular geometric form, or combination of regular geometric
forms, which may be inscribed to encompass the perimeter of the sign structure,
excluding structural support members extending beyond the frame or background
border of the sign. In the case of signs with more than one face, the area
shall be computed only for the maximum single display surface which is visible
from any one ground position.
      2.   For wall signs, awning and canopy signs, and window signs, the sign
area shall be calculated by measuring the entire area enclosed within the
smallest regular geometric form, or combination of regular geometric forms,
which may be inscribed to encompass all letters and graphic symbols of the
sign, including horizontal spacings between such letters and symbols plus any
additional portion of the background which is framed by a border, internally
illuminated, consisting of a color or tone different than the wall to which the
sign is attached, or projects more than three inches (3") beyond the plane of
the wall to which it is attached.
   C.   Multiple Frontages: When a business has more than one building
frontage, the restrictions on the number of signs and sign area shall apply
independently to each frontage, subject to the following limitations:
      1.   The maximum permitted sign area shall apply to any one building
frontage at the applicant's option and the permitted sign area on any other
frontage shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%).
      2.   No signs permitted by one frontage may be transferred to another
frontage.
      3.   Double faced signs erected on or near the corner of a building or
parcel so as to be equally visible from each frontage shall be counted as part
of the permitted sign area for each frontage.
   D.   Multiple Floors: When a business premises contains more than one floor
aboveground, the display frontage may be used to calculate permissible sign
area for each floor, subject to the following limitations:
      1.   If the operations of a single business cover more than one floor and
at least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor(s) above the ground floor is
open to public customers or clients, then twenty five percent (25%) of the
display frontage of the upper floor(s) may be used to calculate permissible
sign area.
      2.   If the floor(s) above the ground floor contains one or more
businesses different from the business(es) occupying the ground floor, and if
the aggregate area occupied by such business(es) equals at least seventy five
percent (75%) of the upper floor(s), then one hundred percent (100%) of the
display frontage of the upper floor(s) may be used to calculate permissible
sign area.
   E.   Multiple Occupants: In buildings with multiple business occupants, each
occupant shall be allotted a sign area proportional to the ratio of total floor
area in the building to the floor area he occupies. Common areas shall not be
included in this calculation.
   F.   Business Premises Without Buildings: For business premises which do not
contain buildings larger than four hundred (400) square feet, and which
lawfully store their merchandise outside, the permitted sign area shall be
calculated on the basis of five one-thousandths (0.005) of a square foot of
sign area for each one square foot of the subject parcel, up to a maximum of
eighty (80) square feet of sign area. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
10-2-16-8: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs, as defined in section
10-2-16-1 of this chapter are specifically and expressly prohibited from being
located, constructed, erected, displayed, placed, structurally or graphically
altered, used, maintained or relocated within the village unless otherwise
provided for in this chapter:
   A.   Any backlit awning/canopy/marquee.
   B.   Any roof sign.
   C.   Any off site signs, except as provided for in section
10-2-16-10 of this chapter.
   D.   Attention attracting devices, pennants and streamers; except where a
temporary use permit specifically allowing such devices has been obtained.
   E.   Inflatable or balloon signs in any zoning district, except where a
temporary use permit specifically allowing such signs has been obtained.
   F.   Portable or wheeled signs, except where a temporary use permit
specifically allowing such signs has been obtained.
   G.   Painted wall signs (painted directly on an exterior wall).
   H.   Signs placed on parked vehicles or trailers for the apparent purpose of
advertising a product or business. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
10-2-16-9: LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Qualification: Any sign, except temporary signs as described in
subsection 10-2-16-5G of this chapter, located within the village on the date
of adoption of this chapter, or located in an area annexed to the village
thereafter, which does not conform with the provisions hereof, is a "legal
nonconforming" sign and is permitted, provided it also meets the following
requirements:
      1.   The sign was covered by a sign permit or variance on the date of
adoption of this chapter, if one was required under applicable law.
      2.   If no sign permit was required under applicable law for the sign in
question, the sign was in all other respects in compliance with applicable law
on the date of adoption of this chapter.
   B.   Loss Of Status: Any of the following actions shall cause a sign to lose
its legal nonconforming status:
      1.   Damage to a sign which requires repairs which will exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the replacement value of the sign;
      2.   Required maintenance which will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
replacement value of the sign;
      3.   Relocation of a sign either on the premises or to another location;
or
      4.   Remodeling which encompasses more than fifty percent (50%) of the
display frontage of the business to which the sign relates.
   C.   Continuing Obligations: Nothing in this section shall relieve the owner
or user of a legal nonconforming sign, or owner of the property on which the
legal nonconforming sign is located, from the provisions of this chapter
regarding safety, maintenance and repair of signs; provided, however, that any
repainting, cleaning and other normal maintenance or repair of the sign or sign
structure shall not modify the sign structure or copy in any way which makes it
more nonconforming. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
10-2-16-10: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The following shall be exempt from all but the maintenance and public safety
requirements of this chapter:
   A.   Flags And Emblems: Flags or emblems of governmental or political,
civic, philanthropic, educational or religious organizations displayed on
private property.
   B.   Government Signs: Signs of a duly authorized governmental body
including traffic or other similar regulatory devices, directional signs, legal
notices, warnings at railroad crossings, and other instructional or regulatory
signs having to do with health, hazards, parking, swimming, dumping, etc.
   C.   Memorial Signs: Memorial signs or tablets listing names of buildings
and date of erection, when cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to be
part of the building or when constructed of bronze or other incombustible
material.
   D.   Addresses 1 : Address numerals and other signs required to be
maintained by law or governmental order, rule or regulation; provided, that the
content and size of the sign do not exceed the requirements of such law, order,
rule or regulation.
   E.   Directional Signs: Nonelectrical signs, not exceeding four (4) square
feet in area, which provide instruction or direction and are located entirely
on the property to which they pertain to identify restrooms, public telephones,
walkways, parking lot entrances and exits, and features of a similar nature.
   F.   Holiday Decorations: Displays of a primarily decorative nature, clearly
incidental and customary and commonly associated with any national, local or
religious holidays, on the condition they do not act as advertisements.
Decorations must be removed within forty five (45) days following the holiday.
   G.   Business Nameplates: Nonelectrical nameplates mounted to the principal
building or mailbox denoting the business name of an occupation legally
conducted on the premises; provided that the sign area does not exceed two (2)
square feet in area.
   H.   Bulletin Boards: Bulletin boards not exceeding twenty (20) square feet
for public, charitable or religious institutions where the same are located on
the premises of said institutions.
   I.   Warning Signs: No trespassing or no dumping signs, not exceeding one
and one-half (11/2) square feet per sign, and not exceeding four (4) in number
per lot; except, that special permission may be obtained from the administrator
for additional signs under proven special circumstances.
   J.   Temporary Window Signs: Paper and other temporary signs affixed to the
inside of a window and advertising temporary commercial situations related to
goods or services sold on the premises; provided, that the total of all signs,
including those permanently mounted, in that window occupy no more than seventy
five percent (75%) of the window's area and no such temporary sign shall be in
place longer than thirty (30) days. In buildings without windows on at least
three (3) sides but with spaces specifically provided for the placement of
temporary signs in locations where windows might otherwise be installed, signs
as provided herein and subject to the same restrictions as to duration may be
affixed to the exterior of those spaces provided in lieu of windows, on the
condition that the signs be placed within a frame no larger than eighteen (18)
square feet and covered with glass, plastic or similar waterproof material, and
on the further condition that the number of such signs not exceed four (4) in
number on any one side of the building and not exceed a total of eight (8) on
all windowless sides of the building added together.
   K.   Religious And Historic Symbols: Religious symbols, identification
emblems of religious order, or commemorative plaques of recognized historical
agencies; provided, that no such symbol, plaque or identification emblem shall
exceed four (4) square feet; and provided further, that all such symbols,
plaques and identification emblems shall be placed flat against a building,
stone or other permanent surface.
   L.   Living Complex Signs: Subdivision and multiple-family complex identity
signs, provided that:
      1.   No more than two (2) signs are erected at each entry to the
subdivision or complex; and
      2.   The sign area of individual signs does not exceed sixteen (16)
square feet on both sides of a two (2) sided sign or eight (8) square feet on a
one sided sign; and
      3.   The sign contains only the name of the subdivision or complex and
appropriate logo, but does not advertise the availability of units or land for
sale or rent; and
      4.   The sign is located at least fifteen feet (15') from the property
line along the street from which it is to be viewed and one hundred feet (100')
from any dwelling unit; and
      5.   The sign has a landscaped base.
   M.   Political Signs: Political signs of no more than twenty four (24)
square feet per lot, with a maximum of six (6) square feet for any one sign.
Political signs shall be removed by a candidate or candidate's worker within
five (5) days after an election.
Furthermore, it is the recommendation of the village that political signs not
be installed more than forty five (45) days prior to an election.
   N.   Agricultural Business Signs: Business signs, not exceeding twenty four
(24) square feet, when located on property used for agricultural purposes and
pertaining to the sale of agricultural products grown or produced on the
premises.
   O.   Real Estate Signs:
      1.   Signs identifying real estate for sale, rent or lease with one sign
per lot or per principal structure, except on a corner lot where one sign may
face each street;
      2.   Signs shall not exceed six (6) square feet per face in residential
districts;
      3.   Signs shall not exceed twenty four (24) square feet in commercial
and office districts;
      4.   Signs shall not exceed twenty four (24) square feet in industrial
districts;
      5.   Signs shall not be illuminated;
      6.   All such signs must be removed within twenty four (24) hours of the
closing sale or lease of said property;
      7.   Off site directional signs are permitted subject to the following:
         a.   Signs shall not exceed three (3) square feet per face with a
maximum of two (2) faces;
         b.   Sign height shall not exceed four feet (4');
         c.   Signs shall only be placed on private property provided that
prior permission has been obtained from the owner of the property;
         d.   Signs are permitted on the day of the open house or event
associated with the sale or lease of property only;
         e.   Directional signs are limited to individually owned residential
units that are for sale or rent and cannot be used to advertise subdivisions,
commercial developments, apartments or vacant land.
   P.   "Open" Signs: No more than two (2) temporary signs which advertise
premises open for inspection, provided such signs do not exceed four (4) square
feet each, are located with no more than one sign per frontage, either on the
premises to be inspected or on other private property with that property
owner's or tenant's permission, and are only in place when the related premises
is actually open for inspection.
   Q.   Special Displays: Special displays used for holidays, public
demonstrations or the promotion of civic welfare or charitable purposes,
provided they are approved by the village board after submission of a written
application, they contain no noncharitable advertising and they are removed by
the deadline established by the board in its approval.
   R.   Model Home Signs: A sign identifying a nonoccupied new home used as a
demonstrator constructed for the purpose of selling other homes. Each model
home located on and within a recorded residential subdivision for the sale of
homes or lots thereon may have one identification sign not to exceed fifteen
(15) square feet in area, located entirely within the lot containing the model.
Colored flag banners may be used for a maximum of ten (10) days to identify
introductory new models.
   S.   Garage Sale Signs:
      1.   The sign area shall not exceed three (3) square feet per face with a
maximum of two (2) faces per sign;
      2.   The sign height shall not exceed four feet (4');
      3.   Signs shall only be placed on private property provided that prior
permission has been obtained from the owner of the property;
      4.   Signs may not be placed in any street right of way, public park or
at other publicly owned facilities;
      5.   Signs permitted by this provision are limited to the days that the
garage sale is in progress;
      6.   Garage sale directional signs are limited to the sales of used
household furniture, clothing, appliances and similar household items, but not
including the sale of motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, boats, new
merchandise, or any product or services associated with a home occupation.
   T.   Large Project Identification Signs: In conjunction with the
construction of dwelling units on previously subdivided lots of which a
majority are contiguous, are under the same ownership, are being developed at
the same time and the total land area of the lots, excluding all dedicated
public rights of way, is at least equal to one acre, one on site sign is
allowed temporarily on a lot within the project but not upon any public right
of way subject to the following limitations:
      1.   The sign shall not be more than six feet (6') in height, measured
from the ground to the top of the sign.
      2.   The sign shall be limited in size to twenty four (24) square feet on
each sign face, and only a maximum of two (2) sign faces are allowed.
      3.   The sign shall not be located closer than fifty feet (50') to a lot
improved with a dwelling unit that was constructed prior to the commencement of
the project the sign identifies, and shall meet the location requirements of
subsections 10-2-16-3C3, C5, C6, C7, C8 and C9 of this chapter.
      4.   The sign shall contain no more than five (5) lines of characters,
whether composed of words or figures or both, per sign face, but in addition,
one logo per sign face is allowed.
All project identification signs shall be removed not later than fourteen (14)
days after construction of the last dwelling unit in the project is completed,
or not later than six (6) months after the most recent building permit for a
lot within the project has been issued, whichever first occurs. The sign may be
double faced so long as the wording on each side of the sign is identical, and
only one side shall be used to calculate the allowable square foot area of the
sign.
   U.   Public Notice Signs: As required by section
10-11-6 of this title. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 4 of this code.
10-2-16-11: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in section
13-1-3 of this Code for every day of such violation. (Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-
2010; amd. per correspondence dated 7-31-2018)
10-2-17: ADULT-USE CANNABIS:
   A.   Purpose And Applicability: It is the intent and purpose of this section
to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of
adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the Village of
Winfield. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it may be amended
from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations
provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of
the state or local regulations shall apply.
   B.   Special Use: Adult-use cannabis business establishment facilities, as
defined herein, requiring approval of a special use in the respective districts
in which they are requested shall be processed in accordance with Chapter 10
(Special Uses) of this Title and Section 4 (Adult-Use Cannabis Facility
Components) as provided herein is amended by changing Section 4 (Adult-Use
Cannabis Facility Components) to Section C (Adult- Use Cannabis Facility
Components).
   C.   Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components: In determining compliance with
Chapter 10 (Special uses) of this Title, the following components of the adult-
use cannabis facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the
circumstances affecting the particular property in the context of the existing
and intended future use of the properties:
      1.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
      2.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan and building code compliance.
      3.   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
      4.   Anticipated parking demand based on §
10-9-7 and available private parking supply.
      5.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
      6.   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
      7.   Proposed signage plan.
      8.   Compliance with all requirements provided in Section 4 (Adult-Use
Cannabis Dispensing Organization) as applicable.
      9. Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
Chapter 10 (Special uses) of this Title.
   D.   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within 100 feet of the property line any
church, school other than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home for
aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or any
military or naval station. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall
not be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
In the case of a church, the distance of one hundred (100) feet shall be
measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship services or
educational programs and not to property boundaries.
      2.   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by the Act, and no dispensing organization shall
also sell food for consumption on the premises.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   There shall be no on-site consumption of cannabis or cannabis
infused products at a dispensary or other public space.
      5.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as "Retail Store" per §
10-9-7 (Schedule Of Off-Street Parking Requirements) of the Winfield Village
Code, provided, however, that the village may require that additional parking
be provided as a result of the analysis completed through §
10-2-17B. (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      6.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with Section as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Act.
   E.   Additional Requirements: Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as set
forth in the special use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and
customers of the adult-use cannabis business establishments, as well as its
environs. Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for an adult-use cannabis business
establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent with the
requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 2019-11-26, 11-21-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-12-14, 12-15-2022)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-3-1: Districts Established
10-3-2: Zoning Map
10-3-3: District Boundaries
10-3-4: Zoning Of Public Ways, Waterways And Railroad Rights Of Way
10-3-5: Zoning Of Annexed Areas
10-3-6: Rezoning Of Public And Semipublic Areas
10-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose and provisions of this title, the village is hereby divided
into the following districts:
Residence:
Residence:
       
 ER-1  Single-family estate residential district
 ER-2  Single-family estate residential district
 ER-3  Single-family estate residential district
 R-1   Single-family residence district
 R-1A  Single-family residence district
 R-1B  Single-family residence district
 R-2   Single-family residence district
 R-3   Single-family residence district
 R-4A  Single-family residence district
 R-4B  Single-family residence district
 R-5   Single-family attached residence district
 R-6   General residence district
 R-7   Mixed use district
 SC-PD St. Charles Road corridor - planned development district
       
Business:
       
 TC    Town center district
 B-1   General business district
 B-2   General services district
 B-2A  Health services district
 RW-PD Roosevelt and Winfield Road corridor - planned development district
       
Public lands:
       
 P-1   Public district
       
Industrial:
       
 L-1   Limited industrial district
       
Special uses:
       
 PUD   Planned unit development district
 
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2015-01-01, 1-15-2015; Ord. 2015-01-02,
1-15-2015)
10-3-2: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of the zoning districts are established as shown on the map
entitled "zoning map of the village of Winfield, Illinois", which map, as
amended, is the official zoning map of the village and is made a part hereof,
and shall have the same force and effect as if the zoning map, together with
all notations, references and other information shown thereon were fully set
forth and described herein. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2024-03-03,
3-7-2024)
10-3-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
When uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various districts
as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   District boundary lines are either the centerline of railroads,
highways, streets, alleys or easements, or the boundary lines of sections,
quarter sections, divisions of sections, tracts of lots of such lines extended
otherwise as indicated.
   B.   In areas not subdivided into lots and blocks, wherever a district is
indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling a street or highway, the depth
of such strips shall be in accordance with the dimensions shown on the maps
measured at right angles from the centerlines of the street or highway, and the
length of frontage shall be in accordance with dimensions shown on the map from
sections, quarter section or division lines, or centerlines of streets,
highways or railroad rights of way unless otherwise indicated.
   C.   Where a lot held in one ownership and of record on the effective date
hereof is divided by a district boundary line, the entire lot shall be
construed to be within the more restricted district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010)
10-3-4: ZONING OF PUBLIC WAYS, WATERWAYS AND RAILROAD RIGHTS OF WAY:
All streets, alleys, public ways, waterways and railroad rights of way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property immediately abutting on such streets, alleys, public ways and
railroad rights of way or waterways. Where the centerline of a street, alley,
public way, waterway or railroad right of way serves a district boundary, the
zoning of such areas, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed
to be the same as that of the abutting property up to such centerline. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-3-5: ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS:
   A.   Territory annexed to the village shall be automatically zoned as R-1B
single-family residence district effective immediately upon annexation unless a
different zoning classification has been established by an annexation agreement
duly executed in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-15-1 and a
public hearing has been held in accordance with the procedure set forth in
chapter 11 of this title.
   B.   If a change in zoning classification, special use or variation is
desired subsequent to annexation and no annexation agreement applies, then the
zoning change can only be accomplished in accordance with the procedure set
forth in chapters 10 and 11 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-3-6: REZONING OF PUBLIC AND SEMIPUBLIC AREAS:
An area indicated on the official zoning map as a public park, recreation area,
public school site, cemetery or other similar open space, including those areas
approved as part of the final plan for a planned development, shall not be used
for any other purpose than that which is designated by the map. The village
board may, upon recommendation by the plan commission, approve an amendment to
a planned development to discontinue an approved use and allow for other uses
only if the proposed amendment meets one or more of the criteria required for
an amendment to an approved planned development special use under section
10-10-4 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose And Intent
10-4-2: Elevations And Facades
10-4-3: Driveway Lot Coverage
10-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The residence districts provide for the development of various types of
dwelling units within a framework of standards designed to:
   A.   Preserve and further promote low density single-family detached
dwelling neighborhoods consistent with the predominant character of the
village.
   B.   Encourage the development of medium density single-family detached
dwelling neighborhoods where it is possible to employ modern, efficient land
planning techniques without adversely affecting adjoining land uses.
   C.   Provide for the economically sound and aesthetically pleasing use of
areas characterized by their proximity to heavy traffic, business and office
areas, including the use of townhouses and garden type low density multiple-
family dwellings.
   D.   Encourage modern techniques in residential planning such as the planned
unit development concept. Such techniques could conserve land, reduce
development and housing costs, and reduce the cost of providing public services
and facilities. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4-2: ELEVATIONS AND FACADES:
No two (2) detached single-family dwellings of substantially similar or
identical front elevation or facade shall be constructed or located on adjacent
lots, nor shall there be constructed or located more than twenty five percent
(25%) of single-family dwellings of the same or substantially similar
elevations or facades in any block. A change of front elevations or facades
shall be deemed to exist when there is a substantial difference in roofline,
type and location of windows, and kind and arrangement of materials. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4-3: DRIVEWAY LOT COVERAGE:
No combination of driveways and service walks shall exceed forty five percent
(45%) of a required front yard nor shall any combination of driveways and
service walks exceed twenty percent (20%) of the entire lot. (Ord. 2015-11-34,
11-19-2015)
ARTICLE A.1. ER-2 SINGLE-FAMILY ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4A.1-1: Permitted Uses
10-4A.1-2: Special Uses
10-4A.1-3: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4A.1-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4A.1-5: Lot Size
10-4A.1-6: Yard Areas
10-4A.1-7: Lot Coverage
10-4A.1-8: Floor Area Ratio
10-4A.1-9: Dwelling Standards
10-4A.1-10: Building Height
10-4A.1-11: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4A.1-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Accessory uses in accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Home business offices.
Horse stables with the following restrictions:
   A.   A single horse may be housed or otherwise kept on a lot not less than
forty thousand (40,000) square feet in area.
   B.   One additional horse for each additional twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet of land area.
   C.   A foal less than seven (7) months old is not considered a horse for the
purpose of determining the foregoing lot size limitations.
   D.   No accessory building housing, training or keeping a horse shall be
located closer than one hundred fifty feet (150') from the front lot line, and
twenty five feet (25') from any other lot line; and closer than ten feet (10')
to the nearest septic field.
   E.   All accessory buildings used for the housing, training, or keeping of a
horse shall contain a minimum stall area of two hundred twenty five (225)
square feet for each horse, plus a minimum of fifty (50) square feet for food
and tack.
   F.   No horse exercise ring, corral, pasture, or other open area for
training and keeping of horses shall be located over any septic tank or
drainfield tile line. All such areas shall be suitably fenced so as to contain
the horse in such a manner as to protect the abutting properties from trespass
by the horse and to provide protection without danger or injury to the animal
itself.
Noncommercial greenhouses.
Parks and forest preserves.
Public utility facilities, including electrical substation and distribution
equipment, including towers; natural gas regulator stations; telephone
exchanges; water wells; sanitary sewer lift stations.
Single-family detached dwelling, including permitted home occupations. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-04, 2-17-2011)
10-4A.1-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Accessory uses to the allowable special uses hereof, in accordance with the
provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Bed and breakfasts.
Greenhouses and nurseries, noncommercial.
Group care homes, with six (6) to eight (8) occupants and not located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of another group care home property.
Home daycare facility, where provider lives in the house. The maximum number of
children under the age of twelve (12) cared for in a daycare home by a
caregiver alone shall be eight (8). The maximum number includes the caregiver's
own children, related children and unrelated children under age twelve (12)
living in the home.
Kennel, noncommercial.
Model homes, including a sales office may be established on any property when
meeting the following criteria:
   A.   Shall be located on a street classified as a collector or arterial
street.
   B.   Shall be permitted for a period of not to exceed five (5) years.
   C.   Shall provide not less than four (4) off site parking spaces.
   D.   Shall be permitted one identification sign pursuant to the village's
sign ordinance.
   E.   No outdoor storage of commercial vehicles, construction vehicles,
equipment or supplies shall be permitted on the site of the model home.
   F.   Display illumination of the model home shall be directed away from the
surrounding properties and shall be prohibited between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   G.   Shall be established only on existing subdivided lots of record.
Planned developments.
Religious institutions: chapels, churches, temples and synagogues, rectories,
seminaries, convents, monasteries and similar religious institutions, including
dormitories and other accessory uses required for operation.
Schools, public and private, including colleges, universities and other
institutions of higher education; junior high and high schools - boarding and
nonboarding; elementary schools. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-
04, 2-17-2011)
10-4A.1-3: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another special
use herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Greenhouses and nurseries, noncommercial.
Kennel, noncommercial.
Model homes. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-04, 2-17-2011)
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.1-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.1-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter erected shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than forty thousand (40,000) square
feet and a width at the established building line of not less than one hundred
feet (100') if platted prior to 2005 or one hundred twenty five feet (125')
after 2005. (For added size restrictions on lots to be served by private sewage
disposal systems, see title 8, chapter 5 of this code.)
   B.   All nonresidential principal uses as permitted herein shall be located
on a lot having an area of not less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet
with a minimum width of one hundred twenty five feet (125') at the building
line.
   C.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed and
conditions stipulated at the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.1-6: YARD AREAS:
   A.   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building structures or
enlargement:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than forty feet (40') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Residential Uses: A side yard on each side of the main building
of not less than ten feet (10'); except, where a side yard adjoins a street,
the minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Nonresidential And Special Uses: On lots upon which a
nonresidential or special use, excluding a planned unit development special
use, is erected or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than
fifteen feet (15') on each side of the main structure. Where a side yard abuts
a street, the minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty five
feet (35').
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.1-7: LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the lot area may be occupied by
structures as identified in the "lot coverage" definition.
   B.   Accessory structures shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
required rear yard in total. If horses are maintained, two hundred seventy five
feet (275') of stable area shall be permitted for each permitted horse. (Ord.
2015-11-34, 11-19-2015)
10-4A.1-8: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses, not to exceed three-tenths
(0.3). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.1-9: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand four hundred fifty (1,450) square feet measured from the exterior
faces of exterior walls, including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable
basements as described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches,
garages and terraces. Dwellings more than one story shall have a total floor
area of not less than one thousand nine hundred fifty (1,950) square feet.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.1-10: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building or structure shall exceed a height of
thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower;
height may be increased by up to five feet (5') if an increase in the front,
side and rear yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional
one foot (1') of height over thirty five (35) is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following a recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.1-11: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2161.gif]
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE A.2. ER-3 SINGLE-FAMILY ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4A.2-1: Permitted Uses
10-4A.2-2: Special Uses
10-4A.2-3: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4A.2-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4A.2-5: Lot Size
10-4A.2-6: Yard Areas
10-4A.2-7: Lot Coverage
10-4A.2-8: Floor Area Ratio
10-4A.2-9: Dwelling Standards
10-4A.2-10: Building Height
10-4A.2-11: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4A.2-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Accessory uses in accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Home business offices.
Noncommercial greenhouses.
Parks and forest preserves.
Public utility facilities, including electrical substation and distribution
equipment, including towers; natural gas regulator stations; telephone
exchanges; water wells; sanitary sewer lift stations.
Single-family detached dwelling, including permitted home occupations. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-04, 2-17-2011)
10-4A.2-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Accessory uses to the allowable special uses hereof, in accordance with the
provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Bed and breakfasts.
Greenhouses and nurseries, noncommercial.
Group care homes, with six (6) to eight (8) occupants and not located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of another group care home property.
Home daycare facility, where provider lives in the house. The maximum number of
children under the age of twelve (12) cared for in a daycare home by a
caregiver alone shall be eight (8). The maximum number includes the caregiver's
own children, related children and unrelated children under age twelve (12)
living in the home.
Kennel, noncommercial.
Model homes, including a sales office may be established on any property when
meeting the following criteria:
   A.   Shall be located on a street classified as a collector or arterial
street.
   B.   Shall be permitted for a period of not to exceed five (5) years.
   C.   Shall provide not less than four (4) off site parking spaces.
   D.   Shall be permitted one identification sign pursuant to the village's
sign ordinance.
   E.   No outdoor storage of commercial vehicles, construction vehicles,
equipment or supplies shall be permitted on the site of the model home.
   F.   Display illumination of the model home shall be directed away from the
surrounding properties and shall be prohibited between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   G.   Shall be established only on existing subdivided lots of record.
Planned developments.
Religious institutions: chapels, churches, temples and synagogues, rectories,
seminaries, convents, monasteries and similar religious institutions, including
dormitories and other accessory uses required for operation.
Schools, public and private, including colleges, universities and other
institutions of higher education; junior high and high schools - boarding and
nonboarding; elementary schools. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-
04, 2-17-2011)
10-4A.2-3: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another special
use herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Greenhouses and nurseries, noncommercial.
Kennel, noncommercial.
Model homes. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-04, 2-17-2011)
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.2-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.2-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter erected shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than forty thousand (40,000) square
feet and a width at the established building line of not less than one hundred
feet (100') if platted prior to 2005 or one hundred fifty feet (150') after
2005. (For added size restrictions on lots to be served by private sewage
disposal systems, see title 8, chapter 5 of this code.)
   B.   All nonresidential principal uses as permitted herein shall be located
on a lot having an area of not less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet
with a minimum width of one hundred fifty feet (150') at the building line.
   C.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed and
conditions stipulated at the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.2-6: YARD AREAS:
   A.   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building structures or
enlargement:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than forty feet (40') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Residential Uses: A side yard on each side of the main building
of not less than fifteen feet (15'); except, where a side yard adjoins a
street, the minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty five feet
(35').
         b.   Nonresidential And Special Uses: On lots upon which a
nonresidential or special use, excluding a planned unit development special
use, is erected or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than twenty
feet (20') on each side of the main structure. Where a side yard abuts a
street, the minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty five feet
(35').
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.2-7: LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the lot area may be occupied by
structures as identified in the "lot coverage" definition.
   B.   Accessory structures shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
required rear yard in total. If horses are maintained, two hundred seventy five
feet (275') of stable area shall be permitted for each permitted horse. (Ord.
2015-11-34, 11-19-2015)
10-4A.2-8: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses, not to exceed three-tenths
(0.3). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.2-9: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than two
thousand eight hundred (2,800) square feet measured from the exterior faces of
exterior walls, including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings more than one story shall have a total floor area of not
less than three thousand three hundred fifty (3,350) square feet. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.2-10: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building or structure shall exceed a height of
thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower;
height may be increased by up to five feet (5') if an increase in the front,
side and rear yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional
one foot (1') of height over thirty five (35) is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following a recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.2-11: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2163.gif]
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE A.3. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4A.3-1: Permitted Uses
10-4A.3-2: Special Uses
10-4A.3-3: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4A.3-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4A.3-5: Lot Size
10-4A.3-6: Yard Areas
10-4A.3-7: Lot Coverage
10-4A.3-8: Floor Area Ratio
10-4A.3-9: Dwelling Standards
10-4A.3-10: Building Height
10-4A.3-11: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4A.3-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Accessory uses in accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Group care homes, with six (6) to eight (8) occupants and not located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of another group care home property.
Home daycare facilities.
Recreation facility, public.
Single-family detached dwelling, including permitted home occupations 1 . (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.3-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Accessory uses to the allowable special uses hereof, in accordance with the
provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Bed and breakfasts.
Cemeteries.
Churches, chapels, temples and synagogues, rectories, seminaries, convents,
monasteries and similar religious institutions, including dormitories and other
accessory uses required for operation.
Group care home, with nine (9) to fifteen (15) occupants.
Growing of crops or nursery stock in the open as a principal use, provided that
no livestock or poultry are kept and no retail sales are conducted from the
premises. Horses are permitted provided they are kept solely for the private
use of residents and their social guests in accordance with subsection 10-2-
7B1d of this title, and provided no offensive odors or dusts are created.
Home business offices.
Nurseries, with no retail sales.
Parks, forest preserves, recreational areas and playgrounds, public and
private.
Planned developments.
Schools, public and private; including nursery schools and kindergartens.
Utility and other public service uses limited to the following:
Electric substations and distribution centers.
Fire and police stations.
Gas regulator stations.
Libraries, public.
Telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers and telephone transmission
equipment buildings.
Wells, pumping stations, water reservoirs, and water towers. (Ord. 2010-04-07,
4-1-2010)
10-4A.3-3: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another special
use herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Home business offices.
Nurseries, with no retail sales. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-
04, 2-17-2011)
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.3-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.3-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter erected shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than
ninety five feet (95'). (For added size restrictions on lots to be served by
private sewage disposal systems, see title 8, chapter 5 of this code.) The
widths of lots fronting on a cul-de-sac shall not be less than ninety feet
(90') measured at the established building line.
   B.   All nonresidential principal uses as permitted herein shall be located
on a lot having an area of not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet
with a minimum width of one hundred feet (100') at the building line.
   C.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed and
conditions stipulated at the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.3-6: YARD AREAS:
   A.   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building structures or
enlargement:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than forty feet (40') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Residential Uses: A side yard on each side of the main building
of not less than ten feet (10'); except, where a side yard adjoins a street,
the minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Nonresidential And Special Uses: On lots upon which a
nonresidential or special use, excluding a planned unit development special
use, is erected or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than
fifteen feet (15') on each side of the main structure and a combined total of
side yards of not less than thirty feet (30'). Where a side yard abuts a
street, the minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty five feet
(35').
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.3-7: LOT COVERAGE:
Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the lot area may be occupied by
structures as identified in the "lot coverage" definition. (Ord. 2015-11-34,
11-19-2015)
10-4A.3-8: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses, not to exceed three-tenths
(0.3). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.3-9: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls, including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings more than one story shall have a total floor area of not
less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet. (Ord. 2010-04-
07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.3-10: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building or structure shall exceed a height of
thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
   B.   Nonresidential Permitted Uses And Special Uses: Maximum height may be
increased by up to five feet (5') if an increase in the front, side and rear
yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1') of
building height over thirty five feet (35') is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.3-11: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2165.gif]
(Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999; amd. Ord. 2006-12-62, 12-7-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-2-13 of this title.
ARTICLE A.4. R-1A SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4A.4-1: Permitted Uses
10-4A.4-2: Special Uses
10-4A.4-3: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4A.4-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4A.4-5: Lot Size
10-4A.4-6: Yard Areas
10-4A.4-7: Lot Coverage
10-4A.4-8: Floor Area Ratio
10-4A.4-9: Dwelling Standards
10-4A.4-10: Building Height
10-4A.4-11: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4A.4-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted within the R-1 single-family
residence district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.4-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted as special uses within the R-
1 single-family residence district.
Kennel, noncommercial. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.4-3: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another special
use herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Home business offices.
Kennels, noncommercial.
Nurseries, with no retail sales.
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.4-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.4-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter erected shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet, and a width at the established building line of not less than one
hundred ten feet (110'). (For added size restrictions on lots to be served by
private sewage disposal systems, see title 8, chapter 5 of this code.) The
widths of lots fronting on a cul-de-sac shall not be less than one hundred five
feet (105') measured at the established building line.
   B.   All nonresidential principal uses as permitted herein shall be located
on a lot having an area of not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet
with a minimum width of one hundred ten feet (110') at the building line.
   C.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed and
conditions stipulated at the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.4-6: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building structures or
enlargement:
   A.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than forty feet (40') in depth.
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   Residential Uses: A side yard on each side of the main building of
not less than ten feet (10') except where a side yard abuts a street the
minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Nonresidential Or Special Uses: On lots upon which a nonresidential
or special use, excluding a planned unit development special use, is erected or
enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than fifteen feet (15') on
each side of the main structure and a combined total of side yards of not less
than thirty feet (30'). Where a side yard abuts a street the minimum width of
such yard shall not be less than thirty five feet (35').
   C.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.4-7: LOT COVERAGE:
Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the lot area may be occupied by
structures as identified in the "lot coverage" definition. (Ord. 2015-11-34,
11-19-2015)
10-4A.4-8: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses, not to exceed three-tenths
(0.3). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.4-9: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls; including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings more than one story shall have a total floor area of not
less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet. (Ord. 2010-04-
07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.4-10: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building or structure shall exceed a height of
thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
   B.   Nonresidential Permitted Uses And Special Uses: Maximum height may be
increased by up to five feet (5') if an increase in the front, side and rear
yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1') of
building height over thirty five feet (35') is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A.4-11: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2167.gif]
(Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999; amd. Ord. 2006-12-62, 12-7-2006)
ARTICLE A. ER-1 SINGLE-FAMILY ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Permitted Uses
10-4A-2: Special Uses
10-4A-3: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4A-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4A-5: Lot Size
10-4A-6: Yard Areas
10-4A-7: Lot Coverage
10-4A-8: Floor Area Ratio
10-4A-9: Dwelling Standards
10-4A-10: Building Height
10-4A-11: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4A-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Accessory uses in accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Guest or carriage home that is smaller than the principal residential structure
on the site.
Home business offices.
Horse stables with the following restrictions:
   A.   A single horse may be housed or otherwise kept on a lot not less than
forty thousand (40,000) square feet in area.
   B.   One additional horse for each additional twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet of land area.
   C.   A foal less than seven (7) months old is not considered a horse for the
purpose of determining the foregoing lot size limitations.
   D.   No accessory building housing, training or keeping a horse shall be
located closer than one hundred fifty feet (150') from the front lot line, and
twenty five feet (25') from any other lot line; and closer than ten feet (10')
to the nearest septic field.
   E.   All accessory buildings used for the housing, training, or keeping of a
horse shall contain a minimum stall area of two hundred twenty five (225)
square feet for each horse, plus a minimum of fifty (50) square feet for food
and tack.
   F.   No horse exercise ring, corral, pasture, or other open area for
training and keeping of horses shall be located over any septic tank or drain
field tile line. All such areas shall be suitably fenced so as to contain the
horse in such a manner as to protect the abutting properties from trespass by
the horse and to provide protection without danger or injury to the animal
itself.
Noncommercial greenhouses.
Parks and forest preserves.
Public utility facilities, including electrical substation and distribution
equipment, including towers; natural gas regulator stations; telephone
exchanges; water wells; sanitary sewer lift stations.
Single-family detached dwelling, including permitted home occupations. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-04, 2-17-2011)
10-4A-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Accessory uses to the allowable special uses hereof, in accordance with the
provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Bed and breakfasts.
Greenhouses and nurseries, noncommercial.
Group care homes, with six (6) to eight (8) occupants and not located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of another group care home property.
Home daycare facility, where provider lives in the house. The maximum number of
children under the age of twelve (12) cared for in a daycare home by a
caregiver alone shall be eight (8). The maximum number includes the caregiver's
own children, related children and unrelated children under age twelve (12)
living in the home.
Kennel, noncommercial.
Model homes, including a sales office may be established on any property when
meeting the following criteria:
   A.   Shall be located on a street classified as a collector or arterial
street.
   B.   Shall be permitted for a period of not to exceed five (5) years.
   C.   Shall provide not less than four (4) off site parking spaces.
   D.   Shall be permitted one identification sign pursuant to the village's
sign ordinance.
   E.   No outdoor storage of commercial vehicles, construction vehicles,
equipment or supplies shall be permitted on the site of the model home.
   F.   Display illumination of the model home shall be directed away from the
surrounding properties and shall be prohibited between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   G.   Shall be established only on existing subdivided lots of record.
Planned developments.
Religious institutions: chapels, churches, temples and synagogues, rectories,
seminaries, convents, monasteries and similar religious institutions, including
dormitories and other accessory uses required for operation.
Roadside agricultural products stands, where at least fifty percent (50%) of
the farm products are grown or raised on said lots.
Schools, public and private, including colleges, universities and other
institutions of higher education; junior high and high schools - boarding and
nonboarding; elementary schools. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-
04, 2-17-2011)
10-4A-3: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another special
use herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Greenhouses and nurseries, noncommercial.
Kennel, noncommercial.
Model homes.
Roadside agricultural products stands, where at least fifty percent (50%) of
the farm products are grown or raised on said lots. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010;
amd. Ord. 2011-02-04, 2-17-2011)
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter erected shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than eighty thousand (80,000)
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than one
hundred feet (100') if platted prior to 2005 or one hundred thirty five feet
(135') after 2005. (For added size restrictions on lots to be served by private
sewage disposal systems, see title 8, chapter 5 of this code.)
   B.   All nonresidential principal uses as permitted herein shall be located
on a lot having an area of not less than eighty thousand (80,000) square feet
with a minimum width of one hundred thirty five feet (135') at the building
line.
   C.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed and
conditions stipulated at the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A-6: YARD AREAS:
   A.   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building structures or
enlargement:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than forty feet (40') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Residential Uses: A side yard on each side of the main building
of not less than twenty feet (20'); except, where a side yard adjoins a street,
the minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Nonresidential And Special Uses: On lots upon which a
nonresidential or special use, excluding a planned unit development special
use, is erected or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than twenty
feet (20') on each side of the main structure. Where a side yard abuts a
street, the minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty five feet
(35').
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than thirty five feet (35').
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A-7: LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the lot area may be occupied by
structures as identified in the "lot coverage" definition.
   B.   Accessory structures shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
required rear yard in total. If horses are maintained, two hundred seventy five
feet (275') of stable area shall be permitted for each permitted horse. (Ord.
2015-11-34, 11-19-2015)
10-4A-8: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses, not to exceed two-tenths (0.2).
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A-9: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than two
thousand (2,000) square feet measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls, including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings more than one story shall have a total floor area of not
less than two thousand six hundred (2,600) square feet. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010)
10-4A-10: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building or structure shall exceed a height of
thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower;
height may be increased by up to ten feet (10') if an increase in the front,
side and rear yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional
one foot (1') of height over thirty five (35) is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following a recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4A-11: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2167.gif]
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE B. R-1B SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Permitted Uses
10-4B-2: Special Uses
10-4B-3: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4B-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4B-5: Lot Size
10-4B-6: Yard Areas
10-4B-7: Lot Coverage
10-4B-8: Floor Area Ratio
10-4B-9: Dwelling Standards
10-4B-10: Building Height
10-4B-11: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4B-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted within the R-1 single-family
residence district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4B-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted as special uses within the R-
1 single-family residence district.
Kennel, noncommercial. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4B-3: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another special
use herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Home business offices.
Kennels, noncommercial.
Nurseries, with no retail sales.
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within one thousand feet (1,000') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4B-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4B-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter erected shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than forty thousand (40,000) square
feet, and a width at the established building line of not less than one hundred
thirty five feet (135'). (For added size restrictions on lots to be served by
private sewage disposal systems, see title 8, chapter 5 of this code.) The
widths of lots fronting on a cul-de-sac shall not be less than one hundred
thirty feet (130') measured at the established building line.
   B.   All nonresidential principal uses as permitted herein shall be located
on a lot having an area of not less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet
with a minimum width of one hundred thirty five feet (135') at the building
line.
   C.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed and
conditions stipulated at the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4B-6: YARD AREAS:
   A.   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building structures or
enlargement:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than forty feet (40') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Residential Uses: A side yard on each side of the main building
of not less than ten feet (10') except where a side yard abuts a street the
minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Nonresidential Or Special Uses: On lots upon which a
nonresidential or special use, excluding a planned unit development special
use, is erected or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than
fifteen feet (15') on each side of the main structure and a combined total of
side yards of not less than thirty feet (30'). Where a side yard abuts a street
the minimum width of such yard shall not be less than thirty five feet (35').
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4B-7: LOT COVERAGE:
Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the lot area may be occupied by
structures as identified in the "lot coverage" definition. (Ord. 2015-11-34,
11-19-2015)
10-4B-8: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses not to exceed three-tenths
(0.3). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4B-9: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls; including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings more than one story shall have a total floor area of not
less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet. (Ord. 2010-04-
07, 4-1-2010)
10-4B-10: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building or structure shall exceed a height of
thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
   B.   Nonresidential Permitted Uses And Special Uses: Maximum height may be
increased by up to five feet (5') if an increase in the front, side and rear
yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1') of
building height over thirty five feet (35') is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4B-11: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2169.gif]
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE C. R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4C-1: Permitted Uses
10-4C-2: Special Uses
10-4C-3: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4C-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4C-5: Lot Size
10-4C-6: Yard Areas
10-4C-7: Lot Coverage
10-4C-8: Floor Area Ratio
10-4C-9: Dwelling Standards
10-4C-10: Building Height
10-4C-11: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4C-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted within the R-1 single-family
residence district.
Group care home, with six (6) to eight (8) occupants and not located within
seven hundred feet (700') of another group care home property. (Ord. 2010-04-
07, 4-1-2010)
10-4C-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted as special uses within the R-
1 single-family residence district.
Group care home, with nine (9) to fifteen (15) occupants.
Restricted offices.
   A.   Limited Purpose: This special use category is intended to provide for
small offices in the older areas of the village adjacent to the town center and
business area where it is possible to retain the residential character and
appearance of the village and at the same time promote limited business
activity and provide a transition between residential and business and town
center districts. The special uses allowable are characterized by low traffic
volume and limited parking requirements. The regulations under this special use
category are designed to encourage the retention and renovation of sound
existing structures and to ensure that the office uses remain compatible with
the residential uses while permitting the area to maintain a distinctive
residential character. Replacement structures subject to this special use must
have a residential character and appearance. Any property granted this special
use shall be located not more than four hundred feet (400') (measured along the
street on which it fronts) inclusive of the property from a district zoned
"town center" or "B-1" and located with its front yard facing Winfield Road,
Jewell Road or Highlake Road.
   B.   Limited Scope: Any special use granted under the provisions of this
restricted office use is valid only for the specific office use described in
the ordinance granting the special use, and no other use is authorized. Any use
other than the use thus described, constitutes a use in violation of the
Winfield zoning ordinance and the violator is subject to the penalties
described in section
10-11-8 of this title. However, anyone wishing to use the property for a use
that is different, but is among the allowable uses set forth in subsection C of
this restricted office use, can apply for a new special use, which may be
allowed if all the conditions, provisions and standards of this restricted
office use are met.
   C.   Uses: The following uses, provided they meet the provisions and
standards set forth in subsection A of this restricted office use, may be
allowed as a special use for office in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 10 of this title: insurance, landscape counseling and planning,
advertising services, commercial art and graphic design, computer programming
services (but not including training services), interior design and decorating
services (but not including painters and paperhangers or showrooms or retail
sales on the premises), offices and clinics of doctors of medicine, dentists,
osteopaths, chiropractors, optometrists, podiatrists and other health
practitioners (but not emergency treatment as a regular advertised practice),
legal services, engineering, architectural and surveying services, accounting,
auditing and bookkeeping services and office uses similar in character to those
previously listed above.
   D.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures are permitted in all special
use office areas subject to the provisions of chapter 2 of this title, but
accessory uses are not permitted without the specific approval of the board of
trustees after the recommendations of the plan commission.
   E.   Site Plan And Architectural Review: All new construction or
modification of existing structures shall be subject to site plan and
architectural review and approval by the plan commission to ensure compliance
with the purposes and requirements of this special use.
   F.   Parking And Loading Requirements: All required parking and loading
applicable to this special use office area shall be based upon: 1) the
applicable requirements for that particular use as set forth in chapter 9 of
this title; and 2) the proposed use, and shall be established pursuant to site
plan approval of the plan commission. Such site plan approval shall include a
determination by the plan commission as to whether or not all required on site
parking is actually necessitated by the proposed use. If all the required
parking is not currently necessitated for the proposed use, the plan commission
shall advise the applicant to reserve unneeded required parking spaces as
landscaped open space to be paved only at such time as determined by the plan
commission with the concurrence of the board of trustees, based on actual need.
That determination of a need for additional parking can be made by the plan
commission at any time during the life of the special use, either upon request
of the owner or the village after written notice to the owner of the time and
place when the plan commission considers such a request. After considering such
a request for additional parking, the plan commission shall make its
recommendations to the board of trustees and if the board of trustees
determines that additional parking is required, written notice shall be sent to
the owner directing him to provide the additional parking spaces required
within a reasonable time. It is a condition of any special use granted pursuant
to this restricted office use that the owner provide such additional parking
within a reasonable time. In any case, however, the applicant's site plan must
demonstrate that all required parking can ultimately be provided on the site in
a manner acceptable to the plan commission.
   G.   Sign Regulations: The sign regulations applicable in all special use
office areas shall be as set forth in subsection 10-2-16-10G of this title.
   H.   Landscape: A landscape plan drawn to scale and illustrating the formal
landscaping of the site including location and type of plant materials to be
used and indicating which existing plant materials are to remain or to be
removed on the site shall be submitted and shall be subject to the approval of
the plan commission. The landscape plan shall include provisions for the
screening of all parking areas from the street and adjacent residential areas.
   I.   Standards: Any special use office granted shall be subject to the
following standards:
      1.   The conversion or rebuilding of any structure originally designed
for a residential use shall retain the existing residential character of the
structure and shall be performed in a manner which will permit the reconversion
of the structure to a residential use in an economically feasible manner. The
quality of exterior design shall be equal in all facades of the structure and
the materials used shall be of the same or comparable quality on all facades of
the structure. The design and construction of any new structure shall permit
the conversion of the structure to a residential use in an economically
feasible manner.
      2.   Any new structure shall be designed to be compatible in appearance
with the adjacent single-family residential structures. The quality of exterior
design shall be equal in all facades of the structure and the materials used
shall be of the same or comparable quality in all facades of the structure. The
design and construction of any new structure shall permit the conversion of the
structure to a residential use in an economically feasible manner.
      3.   All conversions of existing structures or new construction shall be
designed to be visually compatible in terms of the materials used, shapes,
textures, colors, projections, proportions and scale with the buildings, public
ways and places to which they are visually related.
      4.   All exterior lighting shall be so arranged as to prevent direct
glare of beams onto any adjacent residential property by the use of luminary
cutoffs and shall be compatible with lighting typically utilized or permitted
in the R-2 single-family residence district.
      5.   The coverage of all impervious surfaces, including buildings,
accessory structures, parking areas and other paved areas shall not exceed in
the aggregate forty percent (40%) of the lot area.
      6.   Such other standards, conditions or restrictions as shall be imposed
pursuant to chapter 10 of this title.
      7.   Once a site plan has been approved and a special use granted
pursuant to the provisions of this restricted office use, no further additions,
modifications or expansions to the structure shall be permitted without
application to and approval by the Winfield plan commission and the president
and board of trustees.
   J.   Revocation:
      1.   Any violation of the requirements, terms and conditions of any
special use granted pursuant to the provisions of this restricted office use,
in addition to the penalties described in section
10-11-8 of this title, shall subject the property to a repeal of that special
use after notice to the owner of the violation and a reasonable opportunity to
correct the violation and a public hearing before the plan commission on the
proposed revocation.
      2.   If the intensity of the use for which a special use has been granted
increases and causes a need for more off street parking than the site can
accommodate within the limitations of this restricted office use, or causes a
greater traffic volume than is allowable to qualify for a special use under the
limitations of subsection A of this restricted office use, then the special use
is subject to repeal if the owner fails to diminish the intensity of the use in
a manner that will keep the off site parking demands and traffic volume within
the limitations of this restricted office use, after notice to the owner to
diminish the intensity of the use, and a public hearing before the plan
commission on the proposed revocation.
      3.   After such public hearing described in subsections J1 and J2 of this
restricted office use, the plan commission shall make its written
recommendations to the president and board of trustees who shall thereafter
determine whether or not to revoke the special use or continue it under such
terms and conditions as may be appropriate. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4C-3: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within seven hundred feet (700') of another special use
herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Home business offices.
Nurseries, with no retail sales. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-
04, 2-17-2011)
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within seven hundred feet (700') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4C-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4C-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter erected shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than twelve thousand (12,000)
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than
eighty five feet (85'). The widths of lots fronting on a cul-de-sac shall not
be less than eighty feet (80') measured at the established building line.
   B.   All nonresidential principal uses as permitted herein shall be located
on a tract of land having an area of not less than fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet with a minimum width at the building line of not less than ninety
feet (90').
   C.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed and
conditions imposed at the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4C-6: YARD AREAS:
   A.   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than forty feet (40').
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Residential Uses: A side yard on each side of the main building
of not less than ten feet (10') except, where a side yard abuts a street, the
minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Nonresidential And Special Uses: On lots upon which a
nonresidential or special use, excluding a planned unit development special
use, is erected or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than
fifteen feet (15') on each side of the main structure and a combined total of
side yards of not less than thirty feet (30'). Where a side yard abuts a
street, the minimum width of such yard shall not be less than thirty feet
(30').
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4C-7: LOT COVERAGE:
Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the lot area may be occupied by
structures as identified in the "lot coverage" definition. (Ord. 2015-11-34,
11-19-2015)
10-4C-8: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses, not to exceed three-tenths
(0.3). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4C-9: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls, including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings having more than one story shall have a total floor area of
not less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4C-10: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of thirty five feet
(35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
   B.   Nonresidential Permitted Uses And Special Uses: Maximum height may be
increased by up to five feet (5') if an increase in the front, side and rear
yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1') of
building height over thirty five feet (35') is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4C-11: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2171.gif]
(Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999)
ARTICLE D. R-3 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4D-1: Permitted Uses
10-4D-2: Special Uses
10-4D-3: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4D-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4D-5: Lot Size
10-4D-6: Yard Areas
10-4D-7: Lot Coverage
10-4D-8: Floor Area Ratio
10-4D-9: Dwelling Standards
10-4D-10: Building Height
10-4D-11: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4D-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted within the R-1 single-family
residence district.
Group care home, with six (6) to eight (8) occupants and not located within
seven hundred feet (700') of another group care home property. (Ord. 2010-04-
07, 4-1-2010)
10-4D-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted as special uses within the R-
1 single-family residence district.
Group care home, with nine (9) to fifteen (15) occupants. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-
1-2010)
10-4D-3: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within seven hundred feet (700') of another special use
herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Home business offices.
Nurseries, with no retail sales. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-
04, 2-17-2011)
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within seven hundred feet (700') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4D-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4D-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter erected shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet and a width at the established building line of not less than seventy five
feet (75'). The widths of lots fronting on a cul-de-sac shall not be less than
seventy feet (70') measured at the established building line.
   B.   All nonresidential principal uses of buildings as permitted herein
shall be located on a tract of land having an area of not less than twelve
thousand (12,000) square feet and a width at the established building line of
not less than eighty five feet (85').
   C.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed and
conditions imposed at the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4D-6: YARD AREAS:
   A.   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Residential Uses: A side yard on each side of the main building
of not less than ten feet (10') except, where a side yard adjoins a street, the
minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty feet (30').
         b.   Permitted Nonresidential And Special Uses: On lots upon which a
nonresidential or special use, excluding a planned unit development special
use, is erected or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than
fifteen feet (15') on each side of the main structure and a combined total of
side yards of not less than thirty feet (30'). Where a side yard adjoins a
street, the minimum width of such yard shall not be less than thirty five feet
(35').
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4D-7: LOT COVERAGE:
Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the lot area may be occupied by
structures as identified in the "lot coverage" definition. (Ord. 2015-11-34,
11-19-2015)
10-4D-8: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses, not to exceed four-tenths
(0.4). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4D-9: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls, including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings having more than one story shall have a total floor area of
not less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4D-10: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of thirty five feet
(35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
   B.   Nonresidential Permitted Uses And Special Uses: Maximum height may be
increased by up to five feet (5') if an increase in the front, side and rear
yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1') of
building height over thirty five feet (35') is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4D-11: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2173.gif]
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE E. R-4A SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4E-1: Permitted Uses
10-4E-2: Special Uses
10-4E-3: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4E-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4E-5: Lot Size
10-4E-6: Yard Areas
10-4E-7: Lot Coverage
10-4E-8: Floor Area Ratio
10-4E-9: Dwelling Standards
10-4E-10: Building Height
10-4E-11: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4E-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted within the R-1 single-family
residence district.
Group care home, with six (6) to eight (8) occupants and not located within
five hundred feet (500') of another group care home property. (Ord. 2010-04-07,
4-1-2010)
10-4E-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted as special uses within the R-
1 single-family residence district, with the exception of nonretail nurseries.
Group care home with nine (9) to fifteen (15) occupants. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010)
10-4E-3: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within five hundred feet (500') of another special use
herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Home business offices.
Nurseries, with no retail sales. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-
04, 2-17-2011)
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within five hundred feet (500') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4E-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required or
permitted in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4E-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter erected shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than seven thousand five hundred
(7,500) square feet and a width at the established building line of not less
than fifty feet (50'). The width of lots fronting on a cul-de-sac shall not be
less than forty five feet (45') measured at the established building line.
   B.   All nonresidential principal uses as permitted herein shall be located
on a tract of land having an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet with a minimum width at the building line of not less than eighty five
feet (85').
   C.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed and
conditions imposed at the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4E-6: YARD AREAS:
   A.   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Residential Uses: A side yard on each side of the main building
of not less than five feet (5') except, where a side yard adjoins a street, the
minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty feet (30').
         b.   Permitted Nonresidential And Special Uses: On lots upon which a
nonresidential or special use, excluding a planned unit development special
use, is erected or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than
fifteen feet (15') on each side of the main structure and a combined total of
side yards of not less than thirty feet (30'). Where a side yard adjoins a
street, the minimum width of such yard shall not be less than thirty five feet
(35').
      3.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4E-7: LOT COVERAGE:
Not more than forty percent (40%) of the lot area may be occupied by structures
as identified in the "lot coverage" definition. (Ord. 2015-11-34, 11-19-2015)
10-4E-8: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses, not to exceed four-tenths
(0.4). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4E-9: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls, including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings having more than one story shall have a total floor area of
not less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4E-10: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of thirty five feet
(35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
   B.   Nonresidential Permitted Uses And Special Uses: Maximum height may be
increased by up to five feet (5') if an increase in the front, side and rear
yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1') of
building height over thirty five feet (35') is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4E-11: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2175.gif]
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE F. R-4B SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4F-1: Purpose
10-4F-2: Permitted Uses
10-4F-3: Special Uses
10-4F-4: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4F-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4F-6: Lot Size
10-4F-7: Yard Areas
10-4F-8: Lot Coverage
10-4F-9: Floor Area Ratio
10-4F-10: Dwelling Standards
10-4F-11: Building Height
10-4F-12: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4F-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide for single-family residential
development and selected special uses compatible with the wooded, scenic
residential character of the Roosevelt Road Corridor, to preserve that
character, minimize the negative impact of certain preexisting nonresidential
uses, and allow some flexibility in uses to encourage development on unimproved
lots in that corridor without an adverse impact on existing residential
dwellings and promote safe access to public streets and allow appropriate
stormwater management facilities to be constructed. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4F-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted within the R-1 single-family
residence district.
Group care home, with six (6) to eight (8) occupants and not located within
five hundred feet (500') of another group care home property. (Ord. 2010-04-07,
4-1-2010)
10-4F-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted as special uses within the R-
1 single-family residence district, with the exception of nonretail nurseries.
Group care home, with nine (9) to fifteen (15) occupants.
Parks and playgrounds, privately owned and operated, not for profit.
Planned development, limited to single-family detached or single-family
attached dwellings, and offices for professional and administrative services.
Restricted offices, as defined herein.
   A.   Limited Purpose And Application: This overlay district is intended to
provide for small offices on those properties with frontage on Roosevelt Road,
located between the west properties line of the property currently occupied by
the Viking Restaurant and the western corporate limits of the city of Wheaton.
It is possible to retain a residential character and appearance compatible with
the surrounding area and at the same time allow limited office activity.
   B.   Limited Scope: An overlay district granted under the provisions of the
restricted office overlay district is valid only for a "restricted office", as
defined herein, and no other use is authorized. Any use other than the use thus
described, constitutes a use in violation of the Winfield zoning ordinance and
the violator is subject to the penalties described in section
10-11-8 of this title.
   C.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures are permitted in the
restricted office overlay district subject to the provisions of chapter 2 of
this title, but accessory uses are not permitted without the specific approval
of the board of trustees after the recommendation of the plan commission.
   D.   Site Plan And Architectural Review: All new construction or
modification of existing structures shall be subject to site plan and
architectural review and recommendation by the plan commission to ensure
compliance with the purposes and requirements of this overlay district.
   E.   Parking And Loading Requirements: All required off street parking and
loading shall be based upon the requirements for office use as set forth in
chapter 9 of this title.
   F.   Sign Regulations: The sign regulations applicable in the restricted
office overlay district shall be as set forth in title 9, chapter 3 of this
code.
   G.   Landscape Review: All new construction or modification of existing
structures shall require the submittal of a landscape plan, drawn to scale and
illustrating the location and type of plant materials to be used, and
indicating which existing plant materials are to remain or to be removed on the
site. The landscape plan shall include provisions for the screening of all
parking areas from the street and adjacent residential areas.
   H.   Standards: Any restricted office use within this overlay district shall
be subject to the following standards:
      1.   The conversion or rebuilding of any structure originally designed
for a residential use shall retain the residential character of the structure
and shall be performed in a manner which will permit the reconversion of the
structure to a residential use in an economically feasible manner. The quality
of the exterior design shall be equal in all facades of the structure and the
materials used shall be the same or comparable quality on all facades of the
structure.
      2.   Any new structure shall be designed to be compatible in appearance
with the adjacent single-family residential structures. The type and quality of
materials and exterior design shall be equal on all facades of the structure.
      3.   All conversions of existing structures or new construction shall be
designed to be compatible in terms of the materials used, roof shapes,
textures, colors, openings, projections, proportions and scale with the
buildings, public ways and places to which they are visually related.
      4.   All exterior lighting shall be so arranged as to prevent direct line
of sight from luminaires onto any adjacent residential property by the use of
luminary cutoffs and shall be compatible with lighting typically utilized or
permitted in this R-4B single-family residence district.
      5.   The coverage of all impervious surfaces, including buildings,
accessory structures, parking areas and other paved areas shall not exceed in
the aggregate forty percent (40%) of the lot area.
      6.   Such other standards, conditions or restrictions as shall be imposed
pursuant to chapter 10 of this title.
      7.   Once a site plan, a landscape plan and the architecture have been
approved pursuant to the provisions of the restricted office overlay district,
no further additions, modifications or expansions to the structure shall be
permitted without application to and approval by the Winfield plan commission
and the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   I.   Business Uses: The following business use is permitted by virtue of
existing prior to the adoption of ordinance 276 as amended and may continue
after the effective date hereof as long as the existing land uses do not change
from the present classification. Any change or modification in the use,
building configuration or size, parking or landscaping, requires a special use
permit. If this building becomes vacant, unoccupied or not used for a
continuous period of seven hundred thirty (730) days, it shall not thereafter
be occupied or used except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of
the district in which it is located:
      1.   One commercial building and use located on a lot in the southeast
one-quarter (SE1/4) of section 13, parcel numbers 04-13-427-013, 04-13-427-017,
04-13-427-016. (As of the adoptive date hereof, Morgan's Charhouse, Roosevelt
Road.)
      2.   Accessory use to the above uses, including, but not limited to, off
street parking and off street loading. (Ord. 2013-08-26, 8-15-2013)
10-4F-4: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within five hundred feet (500') of another special use
herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Home business offices.
Nurseries, with no retail sales. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-
04, 2-17-2011)
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within five hundred feet (500') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4F-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required or
permitted in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4F-6: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Every single-family dwelling hereafter erected shall be located on a
lot having an area of not less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square
feet and a width at the established building line of not less than fifty feet
(50'). The width of lots fronting on a cul-de-sac shall not be less than forty
five feet (45') measured at the established building line.
   B.   All nonresidential principal uses of buildings as permitted herein
shall be located on a tract of land having an area of not less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet and a width at the established building line of
not less than eighty five feet (85').
   C.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed and
conditions imposed at the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4F-7: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained:
   A.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   Residential Uses: A side yard on each side of the main building of
not less than eight feet (8') except, where a side yard adjoins a street, the
minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty feet (30').
      2.   Permitted Nonresidential And Special Uses: On lots upon which a
nonresidential or special use, excluding a planned unit development special
use, is erected or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than
fifteen feet (15') on each side of the main structure and a combined total of
side yards of not less than thirty feet (30'). Where a side yard adjoins a
street, the minimum width of such yard shall not be less than thirty five feet
(35').
   C.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than thirty five feet (35'). (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4F-8: LOT COVERAGE:
Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the lot area may be occupied by
structures as identified in the "lot coverage" definition. (Ord. 2015-11-34,
11-19-2015)
10-4F-9: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses, not to exceed three-tenths
(0.3). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4F-10: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls, including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings having more than one story shall have a total floor area of
not less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4F-11: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of thirty five feet
(35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
   B.   Nonresidential Permitted Uses And Special Uses: Maximum height may be
increased by up to five feet (5') if an increase in the front, side and rear
yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1') of
building height over thirty five feet (35') is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4F-12: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2177.gif]
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE G. R-5 SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4G-1: Permitted Uses
10-4G-2: Special Uses
10-4G-3: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4G-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4G-5: Lot Size
10-4G-6: Yard Areas
10-4G-7: Lot Coverage
10-4G-8: Floor Area Ratio
10-4G-9: Dwelling Standards
10-4G-10: Building Height
10-4G-11: Elevations And Facades
10-4G-12: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4G-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted in the R-1 single-family
residence district.
Group care home, with six (6) to eight (8) occupants and not located within
five hundred feet (500') of another group care home property.
Single-family attached dwellings, as defined by this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07,
4-1-2010)
10-4G-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted as special uses within the R-
1 single-family residence district, with the exception of nonretail nurseries.
Group care home, with nine (9) to fifteen (15) occupants.
Townhomes. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4G-3: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within five hundred feet (500') of another special use
herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Home business offices.
Nurseries, with no retail sales. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-
04, 2-17-2011)
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within five hundred feet (500') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4G-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4G-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   All single-family detached dwellings hereafter erected shall be located
on a lot having an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and
a width at the established building line of not less than seventy five feet
(75'). The width of lots fronting on a cul-de-sac shall not be less than
seventy feet (70') measured at the established building line.
   B.   All single-family attached dwellings hereafter erected or structurally
altered shall be located on a lot having an area of not less than seven
thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet with a minimum of three thousand six
hundred (3,600) square feet per dwelling unit and a width at the building line
of not less than eighty five feet (85'). The width of lots fronting on a cul-
de- sac shall not be less than eighty feet (80') measured at the established
building line.
   C.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed and
conditions imposed at the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4G-6: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained:
   A.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than thirty feet (30').
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   Single-Family Detached Or Attached Dwellings: Two (2) side yards,
neither of which is less than ten percent (10%) of the width of the lot, or
seven feet (7'), whichever is larger. No side yard shall be required to be more
than ten feet (10').
      2.   Side Yard, Street: A side yard abutting a street shall not be less
than thirty feet (30') in width.
      3.   Corner Lot: If a corner lot, subdivided and duly recorded prior to
the effective date hereof, has insufficient width to provide such yard of
thirty feet (30') wide and still it maintains a buildable width of thirty five
feet (35'), including the side yard along the opposite side lot line, then the
side yard abutting the street may be reduced by the distance necessary to
maintain a buildable width of thirty five feet (35'), provided such side yard
is not reduced to less than thirty percent (30%) of the width of the lot.
      4.   Permitted Nonresidential And Special Uses: On lots upon which a
permitted nonresidential use or special use, excluding a planned unit
development special use, is erected or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of
not less than fifteen feet (15') on each side of the main structure and a
combined total of not less than thirty feet (30').
   C.   Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30').
   D.   Building Separation:
      1.   Single-Family Attached:
         a.   Not less than fifty feet (50') when any part of the front wall of
the dwelling is opposite the front wall or rear wall of the nearest dwelling
located on the same lot or adjoining lot.
         b.   Not less than forty feet (40') when any part of a rear wall of a
dwelling is opposite the rear wall of the nearest dwelling located on the same
lot or adjoining lot.
         c.   Not less than eighteen feet (18') when any part of the side wall
of a dwelling is opposite the side wall of the nearest dwelling located on the
same lot or adjoining lot.
         d.   Not less than thirty feet (30') when any part of the side wall of
a dwelling is opposite the front wall or rear wall of the nearest dwelling
located on the same lot or adjoining lot.
      2.   Townhomes And Other Multiple-Family Dwellings: By definition,
townhomes shall contain at least three (3) units and:
         a.   A separation between townhomes, side to side, of at least twenty
feet (20').
         b.   A separation between townhomes, front to front, or front to rear,
of at least sixty feet (60').
         c.   A separation between townhomes, front or rear to sides, of at
least forty feet (40'). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4G-7: LOT COVERAGE:
Not more than forty percent (40%) of the lot area may be occupied by structures
as identified in the "lot coverage" definition. (Ord. 2015-11-34, 11-19-2015)
10-4G-8: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses, not to exceed three-tenths
(0.3). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4G-9: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls, including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings having more than one story shall have a total floor area of
not less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet. Single-
family attached dwellings shall have a minimum gross interior floor area per
dwelling unit of seven hundred twenty (720) square feet measured by including
rooms, hallways, stairs, closets, thickness of interior walls, columns and
other similar features. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4G-10: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of thirty five feet
(35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
   B.   Nonresidential Permitted Uses And Special Uses: Maximum height may be
increased by up to five feet (5') if an increase in the front, side and rear
yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1') of
building height over thirty five feet (35') is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4G-11: ELEVATIONS AND FACADES:
No single-family attached dwellings of identical or similar front elevations or
facades shall be constructed or located on adjacent lots, nor shall there be
constructed or located more than twenty five percent (25%) of single-family
dwellings of the same or similar elevation or facade in any one block. A change
of front elevation or facade shall be deemed to exist when there is a
substantial difference in roofline, type and location of windows and type,
kind, color and arrangement of materials. Two (2) or more single-family
attached dwellings of identical or similar front elevations or facades may be
located adjacent to one another for design and aesthetic purposes or for
carrying out a theme of architecture, subject to approval of the village board
for the overall plan of the single-family attached dwellings to be constructed.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4G-12: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2179.gif]
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE H. R-6 GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4H-1: Purpose
10-4H-2: Permitted Uses
10-4H-3: Special Uses
10-4H-4: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4H-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4H-6: Lot Size
10-4H-7: Yard Areas
10-4H-8: Lot Coverage
10-4H-9: Floor Area Ratio
10-4H-10: Dwelling Standards
10-4H-11: Building Height
10-4H-12: Elevations And Facades
10-4H-13: Yard Requirement Illustration
10-4H-1: PURPOSE:
In accordance with the policies of the general development plan for the
village, adopted in February 1978, and as amended, and the town center plan,
dated January 1985, the purpose of the R-6 general residence district is to
permit multiple-family dwellings within the town center district. When
considering the R-6 district, the plan commission and village board shall be
guided by the following considerations: such multiple-family uses shall not
create land use or traffic conflicts with existing residential uses in adjacent
districts, and will complement and benefit from the commuter rail station,
village hall, commercial and institutional uses in walking distance proximity.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4H-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Accessory uses in accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Any of the uses permitted in the R-4A single-family residence district,
including permitted home occupations 1 .
Group care home, with six (6) to eight (8) occupants and not located within
five hundred feet (500') of another group care home property.
Home daycare facilities.
Multiple-family dwellings, apartments and apartment hotels.
One-family row dwellings (party wall) with not more than four (4) dwellings in
a row or building.
Recreation facilities (public) and community centers.
Two-family detached dwellings. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-2-13 of this title.
10-4H-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Any use which may be allowed as a special use in the R-5 district, including
accessory uses to the allowable special uses hereof, with the exception of
nonretail nurseries.
Bed and breakfasts.
Business daycare facilities.
Clubs and lodges, private.
Group care home, with nine (9) to fifteen (15) occupants and not located within
five hundred feet (500') of another group care home property.
Home business offices.
Off street parking, and/or loading facilities, provided there is a need for
this facility in the interest of public necessity and convenience and that no
appropriate site is available in nearby business districts.
Office buildings only as a transitional use if adjacent to the town center
district.
Philanthropic or charitable offices/institutions, not including businesses
sponsored by such institutions, except such as are necessary or incidental to
and located in the same building as the institution proper.
Restricted offices.
Townhomes. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4H-4: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the single-family residential character of this
residence district, the following special use separation standards shall apply:
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within five hundred feet (500') of another special use
herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Home business offices.
Nurseries, with no retail sales. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-
04, 2-17-2011)
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within five hundred feet (500') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4H-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4H-6: LOT SIZE:
   A.   All single-family residence detached dwellings hereafter erected shall
be located on a lot having an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet and a width at the building line of not less than seventy five feet
(75').
   B.   All single-family attached dwellings hereafter erected or structurally
altered shall be located on a lot having an area of not less than seven
thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet and a width at the building line of
not less than fifty feet (50').
   C.   All townhomes and other multiple-family buildings or structures
containing three (3) or more dwelling units shall be located on a lot which
provides a minimum lot area per dwelling unit as follows:
 
Type Of Dwelling Unit      Land Area Per Dwelling
                           Unit In Square Feet
4 bedrooms or more        3,000
3 bedrooms                2,700
2 bedrooms                2,400
1 bedroom and efficiency  2,100
 
Provided, however, that in no case shall the minimum lot area be less than
seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet with a width at the building
line of not less than fifty feet (50').
At no time in calculating the dwelling unit density in the R-6 general
residence district shall it be greater than twelve (12) dwelling units per
gross acre.
   D.   Existing residential buildings in the R-6 district may be altered to
provide for not more than four (4) dwelling units; provided, that no existing
residential building is altered in such a way as to conflict with or further
conflict with the foregoing requirements.
   E.   All nonresidential principal uses permitted in this district shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than seven thousand five hundred
(7,500) square feet and a width at the building line of not less than seventy
feet (70').
   F.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed at
the time a special use permit is authorized. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4H-7: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained:
   A.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than thirty feet (30').
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   Interior Side Yard: In the R-6 district, the minimum interior side
yard requirements for permitted uses shall be not less than those itemized
below:
         a.   Single-Family Detached And Attached Dwellings: The same
regulations shall apply as permitted or required in the R-5 single-family
attached residence district.
         b.   Townhomes And Multiple-Family Dwellings (Containing 3 Or More
Dwelling Units): A side yard of ten feet (10') plus five (5) additional feet
for each additional story above two (2) stories in height. Where a side yard
adjoins a street, the minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty
feet (30').
         c.   For Permitted Nonresidential And Special Uses: On lots upon which
a nonresidential or special use, excluding a planned unit development special
use, is erected or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than
fifteen feet (15') on each side of the main structure and a combined total of
not less than thirty feet (30').
      2.   Corner Side Yard: In an R-6 district, the minimum corner side yard
requirements for permitted uses shall not be less than those itemized below:
         a.   Single-Family Detached And Attached Dwellings: The same
regulations shall apply as permitted or required in the R-5 single-family
attached residence district.
         b.   Townhomes And Multi-Family Dwellings (Containing 3 Or More
Dwelling Units): Ten feet (10'); except, that buildings fifty feet (50') or
more in overall width, as projected upon the front lot line, shall have corner
side yards not less than fifteen percent (15%) of the building width or thirty
percent (30%) of the building height, whichever is greater.
         c.   Reversed Corner Lots: For reversed corner lots of record prior to
the effective date hereof shall maintain a setback from the side street of not
less than twenty five feet (25'). No accessory building on said reversed corner
lot shall project beyond the front yard required on the adjacent lot to the
rear, nor be located nearer than ten feet (10') to the side lot line of said
adjacent lot.
         d.   Permitted Nonresidential Uses: Thirty feet (30') plus one foot
(1') for each two feet (2') by which the building height exceeds fifteen feet
(15').
         e.   Special Uses: Corner side yards shall be as specified in the
special use permit.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than thirty feet
(30').
   D.   Building Separation:
      1.   Single-Family Attached:
         a.   Not less than fifty feet (50') when any part of the front wall of
the dwelling is opposite the front wall or rear wall of the nearest dwelling
located on the same lot or adjoining lot.
         b.   Not less than forty feet (40') when any part of a rear wall of a
dwelling is opposite the rear wall of the nearest dwelling located on the same
lot or adjoining lot.
         c.   Not less than eighteen feet (18') when any part of the side wall
of a dwelling is opposite the side wall of the nearest dwelling located on the
same lot or adjoining lot.
         d.   Not less than thirty feet (30') when any part of the side wall of
a dwelling is opposite the front wall or rear wall of the nearest dwelling
located on the same lot or adjoining lot.
      2.   Townhomes And Other Multiple-Family Dwellings: By definition,
townhomes shall contain at least three (3) units and:
         a.   A separation between townhomes, side to side, of at least twenty
feet (20').
         b.   A separation between townhomes, front to front, or front to rear,
of at least sixty feet (60').
         c.   A separation between townhomes, front or rear to sides, of at
least forty feet (40'). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4H-8: LOT COVERAGE:
Not more than thirty five percent (35%) of the lot area may be occupied by
structures as identified in the "lot coverage" definition. (Ord. 2015-11-34,
11-19-2015)
10-4H-9: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
Nonresidential permitted uses and special uses, not to exceed five-tenths
(0.5). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4H-10: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls, including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings having more than one story shall have a total floor area of
not less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet. Single-
family attached dwellings shall have a minimum gross interior floor area per
dwelling unit of seven hundred twenty (720) square feet measured by including
rooms, hallways, stairs, closets, thickness of interior walls, columns and
other similar features. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4H-11: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: No building shall exceed a height of thirty five feet
(35') or two and one-half (21/2) stories, whichever is lower.
   B.   Nonresidential Permitted Uses And Special Uses: Maximum height may be
increased by up to five feet (5') if an increase in the front, side and rear
yard depths by a distance of two feet (2') for each additional one foot (1') of
building height over thirty five feet (35') is provided. Any exception from
this yard standard shall require a zoning variance approved by the village
board, following recommendation from the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4H-12: ELEVATIONS AND FACADES:
No two (2) multi-family dwellings of identical or similar front elevations or
facades shall be constructed or located on adjacent lots, nor shall there be
constructed or located more than twenty five percent (25%) of multi-family
dwellings of the same or similar elevation or facade in any one block. A change
of front elevation or facade shall be deemed to exist when there is a
substantial difference in roofline, type and location of windows, and type,
kind, color and arrangement of materials. Two (2) or more multi-family
dwellings of identical or similar front elevations or facades may be located
adjacent to one another for design and aesthetic purposes for carrying out a
theme of architecture, subject to approval of the plan commission and the
village board for the overall plan of the multi-family dwellings to be
constructed. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4H-13: YARD REQUIREMENT ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2181.gif]
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE I. R-7 MIXED USE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4I-1: Purpose/Savings
10-4I-2: Permitted Uses
10-4I-3: Special Uses
10-4I-4: Special Conditions Of A Planned Development Special Use
10-4I-5: Lot Size
10-4I-6: Yard Areas
10-4I-7: Lot Coverage
10-4I-8: Dwelling Standards
10-4I-9: Building Height
10-4I-10: Residential Elevations And Facades
10-4I-11: Special Use Separation Standards
10-4I-12: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4I-13: Conditions Of Use
10-4I-14: Signs
10-4I-1: PURPOSE/SAVINGS:
   A.   In accordance with the policies of the general development plan for the
village, adopted in February 1978, as amended, the purpose of the mixed use
district is to permit orderly development of parcels of property consisting of
twenty (20) acres or more for mixed or multiple uses. When considering the R-
7 district, the plan commission and village board shall be guided by the
following considerations: mixed uses shall not create land use or traffic
conflicts with existing uses in adjacent districts, will complement and benefit
surrounding land uses, and will provide an opportunity to blend residential and
retail uses together within a single area allowing each use to benefit from the
proximity of the other use.
   B.   Any land division or construction project existing in the village of
Winfield at the time of the adoption hereof, which was approved in accordance
with the R-7 mixed use development regulations applicable at that time, are
granted legal conforming status and any amendments to the previously approved
R-7 planned unit development shall be reviewed within the context of the
regulations in place prior to the effective date hereof. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010)
10-4I-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
   A.   Residential uses:
Any uses or accessory uses permitted in the R-4A single- family residence
district, including permitted home occupations.
Community centers.
Multiple-family dwellings, condominiums, apartments, and apartment hotels.
One-family row dwellings (party wall) with not more than six (6) dwellings in a
row or building.
Two-family detached dwellings.
   B.   Commercial uses:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted within the TC town center
district.
Accessory uses, including off street parking and loading facilities as
permitted or required in accordance with the provisions of chapter 9 of this
title.
Automotive parts accessory stores, new or rebuilt.
Coffee shops.
Convenience stores.
Dry cleaning establishments, retail; employing not more than five (5) persons
and equipment for dry cleaning not to exceed one unit or thirty (30) pounds'
capacity.
Electric and household appliance store including radio and television sales and
repair.
Food supermarkets.
Furniture stores, including upholstering when conducted as part of the retail
operation and secondary to the principal use.
Garden supply.
Home improvement stores.
Laboratories, including medical, dental, research, and testing and other
research laboratories.
Launderette.
Nursing homes.
Office supply stores.
Offices; general/corporate.
Offices or clinics for medical, dental or other health professionals only.
Orthopedic and medical appliance stores, but not including the assembly or
manufacturing of such articles.
Schools; music, dance or business.
Specialty food stores. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4I-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted as special uses within the TC
town center district.
Any use which may be allowed as a special use in the R-5 district, including
accessory uses to the allowable special uses hereof, with the exception of
nonretail nurseries.
Amusement establishments limited to the following:
Billiard parlors.
Bowling alleys.
Ice skating rinks.
Roller skating rinks.
Catering establishments.
Commercial shopping centers.
Drive-through/drive-in establishment.
Group care home, with nine (9) to fifteen (15) occupants and not located within
five hundred feet (500') of another group care home property.
Home daycare facilities.
Hospitals.
Hotels.
Motor vehicles sales (new and used).
Movie and other theaters, not including outdoor theaters.
Nursery, with or without retail sales.
Off street parking, and/or loading facilities, provided there is a need for
this facility in the interest of public necessity and convenience and that no
appropriate site is available in nearby business districts.
Office buildings.
Philanthropic or charitable offices/institutions, not including businesses
sponsored by such institutions, except such as are necessary or incidental to
and located in the same building as the institution proper. (Ord. 2010-04-07,
4-1-2010)
10-4I-4: SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT SPECIAL USE:
Because of the unique nature of the mixed use developments contemplated by this
article, a special use for a planned development within the R-7 mixed use
district shall be required for all developments in this district. The special
use for planned development shall be subject to the following modifications and
special conditions, notwithstanding any provision of chapter 10, article A of
this title or any other provision of this code:
   A.   In the event any provision or right granted under this R-7 mixed use
district conflicts with the provisions or rights granted under chapter 10,
article A of this title, the provisions of the R-7 mixed use district shall
control and no deviation from the planned development requirements of chapter
10, article A of this title shall be required.
   B.   For planned developments within the R-7 mixed use district, the
required yards along the periphery of a planned development shall, unless
modified as herein provided, be at least equal in depth to those of the
underlying zoning district, or the adjacent zoning district, whichever is
greater. The village board may approve lesser setbacks from the boundary line
of a planned development when determined by the village board to be necessary
or may require greater setbacks from the boundary line of a planned development
when determined by the village board to be necessary to protect the privacy of
residents within both existing and proposed subdivisions adjacent to the
planned development.
   C.   All streets shall be publicly dedicated, and constructed in accordance
with applicable standards contained in title 11 of this code, as amended from
time to time, unless private streets are specifically approved as part of the
planned development.
   D.   All activities associated with a business, office, or mixed use planned
development shall conform with the standards established for uses set forth in
this article.
   E.   Within ninety (90) days of the date of passage of an ordinance by the
village board with respect to any final plan, whether for all of a development
or for a single phase, the petitioner shall record a plat with the county
recorder that has been approved by the village as being consistent with the
approved planned development.
   F.   The construction of the planned unit development shall be initiated
within twelve (12) months from the date of passage of the ordinance by the
village board with respect to the final plan. Failure to initiate construction
within the time periods specified by this subsection may result in the
revocation of the special use permit, unless an extension is requested by the
developer (either in its initial application or subsequently) and approved by
the village board.
   G.   If the developer must extend water, sewer or roads to the site, the
construction of the infrastructure for the first phase of the development shall
be substantially completed within twelve (12) months from the date of passage
of the ordinance by the village board with respect to the final plan. Failure
to substantially complete construction of the infrastructure within the time
periods specified by this subsection may result in revocation of the special
use permit, unless an extension is requested by the developer (either in its
initial application or subsequently) and approved by the village board.
   H.   The developer shall submit a completed application for building permits
within three (3) months of the date of passage of the ordinance by the village
board with respect to the final plan of any phase of a planned development;
provided, however, if the developer must extend water, sanitary sewer or roads
to the site, then the developer shall have a period of twelve (12) months from
the aforesaid date of passage to submit a completed application for building
permits. Failure to submit a completed application for building permits within
the time periods specified by this subsection may result in the revocation of
the special use permit, unless an extension is requested by the developer
(either in its initial application or subsequently) and approved by the village
board.
   I.   Criteria for open space contained in chapter 10, article A of this
title or any other chapter of this code shall apply to a planned development
approved pursuant to this section. The village board, upon recommendation of
the plan commission, may set standards for open space within the development
which exceed or are less than those established elsewhere in this code. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4I-5: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Residential:
      1.   All single-family detached and attached dwellings hereafter erected
or structurally altered shall be located on a lot having an area of not less
than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and a width at the building line of not
less than seventy five feet (75').
      2.   At no time in calculating the dwelling unit density in the mixed use
district shall it be greater than eight (8) units per gross acre, unless the
plan commission recommends and the village board approves greater density as
part of the approval of a planned development.
      3.   Minimum lot sizes and widths for special uses shall be prescribed at
the time a special use permit is authorized.
   B.   Commercial: No minimum lot size requirement. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010)
10-4I-6: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained:
   A.   Residential:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Interior Side Yard: In the R-7 district, the minimum interior
side yard requirements for permitted uses shall be not less than those itemized
below:
            (1)   Single-Family Detached And Attached Dwellings: Two (2) side
yards, neither of which is less than ten percent (10%) of the width of the lot,
or seven feet (7'), whichever is larger. No side yard shall be required to be
more than ten feet (10').
            (2)   Townhomes And Multiple-Family Dwellings (Containing 3 Or More
Dwelling Units): A side yard of ten feet (10') plus five (5) additional feet
for each additional story above two (2) stories in height. Where a side yard
adjoins a street, the minimum width of such yard shall be not less than thirty
feet (30').
            (3)   For Special Uses: On lots upon which a special use is erected
or enlarged, there shall be a side yard of not less than fifteen feet (15') on
each side of the main structure and a combined total of not less than thirty
feet (30').
         b.   Corner Side Yard: The minimum corner side yard requirements for
permitted uses shall not be less than those itemized below:
            (1)   Single-Family Detached And Attached Dwellings: Thirty feet
(30').
            (2)   Townhomes And Multi-Family Dwellings Including Condominiums
And Apartments (Containing 3 Or More Dwelling Units): Ten feet (10'); except,
that buildings fifty feet (50') or more in overall width, as projected upon the
front lot line, shall have corner side yards not less than fifteen percent
(15%) of the building width or thirty percent (30%) of the building height,
whichever is greater.
            (3)   Reversed Corner Lots: Reversed corner lots of record prior to
the effective date hereof shall maintain a setback from the side street of not
less than twenty five feet (25'). No accessory building on said reversed corner
lot shall project beyond the front yard required on the adjacent lot to the
rear, nor be located nearer than ten feet (10') to the side lot line of said
adjacent lot.
            (4)   Special Uses: Corner side yards shall be as specified in the
special use permit.
      3.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than thirty feet
(30').
      4.   Building Separation:
         a.   Single-family attached:
            (1)   Not less than fifty feet (50') when any part of the front
wall of the dwelling is opposite the front wall or rear wall of the nearest
dwelling located on the same lot or adjoining lot.
            (2)   Not less than forty feet (40') when any part of a rear wall
of a dwelling is opposite the rear wall of the nearest dwelling located on the
same lot or adjoining lot.
            (3)   Not less than twenty feet (20') when any part of the side
wall of a dwelling is opposite the side wall of the nearest dwelling located on
the same lot or adjoining lot.
            (4)   Not less than thirty feet (30') when any part of the side
wall of a dwelling is opposite the front wall or rear wall of the nearest
dwelling located on the same lot or adjoining lot.
         b.   Townhomes and other multiple-family dwellings: By definition,
townhomes shall contain at least three (3) units and:
            (1)   A separation between townhomes, side to side, of at least
twenty feet (20').
            (2)   A separation between townhomes, front to front, or front to
rear, of at least sixty feet (60').
            (3)   A separation between townhomes, front or rear to sides, of at
least forty feet (40').
   B.   Commercial:
      1.   Front Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side Yard: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear Yard: A minimum of thirty feet (30') shall be provided if
vehicular access is proposed; fifteen feet (15') shall be provided in all other
circumstances.
      4.   Transitional Yards: Where an R-7 district abuts a residence
district, transitional yards shall be provided in accordance with the following
regulations:
         a.   Where a side or rear lot line coincides with a side or rear lot
line of property in an adjacent residence district, a side yard of thirty feet
(30') shall be required if vehicular access is provided and twenty feet (20')
if there is no vehicular access.
         b.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line of property
in an adjacent residence district, a rear yard of fifteen feet (15') shall be
required.
         c.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line of property
in an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along such rear lot
line. Such yard shall be forty feet (40') in depth if vehicular access is
provided and twenty feet (20') in depth if there is no vehicular access.
         d.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with
the front line of an adjacent lot located in a residence district, a yard of
not less than ten feet (10') shall be provided.
   C.   Special Uses: Yard requirements shall be specified with the granting of
a special use permit. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4I-7: LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   Residential single-family: Not more than thirty five percent (35%) of
the lot area may be occupied by buildings and structures including accessory
buildings unless expressly varied within the planned development approval.
   B.   Residential multi-family or attached: No more than forty percent (40%).
   C.   Commercial: No more than fifty percent (50%).
   D.   Mixed use: No more than forty percent (40%). (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010)
10-4I-8: DWELLING STANDARDS:
One-story dwellings shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls, including utility rooms but excluding nonhabitable basements as
described in title 9, chapter 1 of this code, open porches, garages and
terraces. Dwellings having more than one story shall have a total floor area of
not less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet. Single-
family attached dwellings shall have a minimum gross interior floor area per
dwelling unit of seven hundred twenty (720) square feet measured by including
rooms, hallways, stairs, closets, thickness of interior walls, columns and
other similar features. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4I-9: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height; Residential: No residential building shall exceed a
height of thirty five feet (35') or three (3) stories including mechanical
systems and/or screening, whichever is lower.
   B.   Maximum Height; Commercial: The height of commercial structures shall
not exceed three (3) stories or thirty five feet (35') including mechanical
systems and/or screening, whichever is lower.
   C.   Maximum Height; Mixed Use: The height of a mixed use structure shall
not exceed three (3) stories or thirty five feet (35') including mechanical
systems and/or screening, whichever is lower. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4I-10: RESIDENTIAL ELEVATIONS AND FACADES:
No two (2) multi-family structures of identical or similar front elevations or
facades shall be constructed or located on adjacent lots, nor shall there be
constructed or located more than twenty five percent (25%) of multi-family
dwellings of the same or similar elevation or facade in any one block. A change
of front elevation or facade shall be deemed to exist when there is a
substantial difference in roofline, type and location of windows, and type,
kind, color and arrangement of materials. Two (2) or more multi-family
dwellings of identical or similar front elevations or facades may be located
adjacent to one another for design and aesthetic purposes for carrying out a
theme of architecture, subject to approval of the plan commission and the
village board for the overall plan of the multi-family dwellings to be
constructed. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4I-11: SPECIAL USE SEPARATION STANDARDS:
To ensure the preservation of the character of this district, the following
special use separation standards shall apply:
   A.   The following special uses permitted within said district shall not be
permitted to be located within five hundred feet (500') of another special use
herein listed and existing within, and/or adjacent to, said district:
Bed and breakfasts.
Home business offices.
Nurseries, noncommercial.
   B.   A group care home within said district shall not be permitted to be
located within five hundred feet (500') of another group care home existing
within, and/or adjacent to, said district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4I-12: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4I-13: CONDITIONS OF USE:
All uses permitted in this district shall be subject to the following
conditions:
   A.   There shall be no manufacture, processing or treatment of products
other than those which are clearly incidental and essential to the business
conducted on the same premises.
   B.   Such uses, operation or products shall not be objectionable due to
odors, dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other similar attributes. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-4I-14: SIGNS:
All signs shall comply with the provisions of title 9, chapter 3 of this code,
unless specifically exempted in the approval of the planned development. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE J. SC-PD ST. CHARLES ROAD CORRIDOR - PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-4J-1: Purpose
10-4J-2: Location And Public Services
10-4J-3: Permitted Uses
10-4J-3.1: Special Uses
10-4J-4: Prohibited Uses
10-4J-5: Applicability
10-4J-6: Procedures
10-4J-7: Administrative Review
10-4J-8: Combined Preliminary/Final Plan
10-4J-9: Nonconforming Uses
10-4J-1: PURPOSE:
The SC-PD District is established to provide for the development of a
compatible mixture of high density residential, commercial, open space, and
limited office uses that will serve to expand the Village Sales and Property
Tax base. It is intended to permit the establishment of unified residential and
commercial developments, not single lot or use buildings, with carefully
organized structures, service areas, parking areas, stormwater and landscaped
open space; with design features that preserve wetlands; consolidated access
which reduce traffic conflicts; and with landscaping and buffers which protect
property values in surrounding neighborhoods. Specific land uses, design
standards, open spaces, vehicular, bicycle and pedestrian access, and landscape
areas allowed in the SC-PD District shall adhere to the principles and
guidelines described in the comprehensive plan for the Village of Winfield, as
amended. The procedures and standards that govern the SC-PD District are set
forth in subsection 10-10A-3E, "St. Charles Road Corridor - Planned Development
(SC-PD) District", of this title unless otherwise noted in this chapter. (Ord.
2015-01-02, 1-15-2015)
10-4J-2: LOCATION AND PUBLIC SERVICES:
The SC-PD District is intended to be applied to lands in the immediate vicinity
of St. Charles Road at the Village's northern boundary. When mapped, the
district shall be developed in accordance with the area shown on the future
land use plan as "high density residential" and "corridor commercial" of the
Village's comprehensive plan, and shall be served by public water and sewer.
Any future right-of-way taking for the improvement or expansion of St. Charles
Road shall be counted in satisfying the minimum district size requirement.
(Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-15-2015)
10-4J-3: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses may be permitted in the SC-PD District, subject to approval
as part of an approved planned development in accordance with the design
standards and planned unit development (PUD) process requirements contained in
subsection
10-10A-3E of this title:
   A.   Residential Uses:
   Multiple-family dwellings, including condominiums and apartments.
   One-family row dwellings (party wall) with not more than six (6) dwellings
in a row or building.
   Two-family detached dwellings.
   B.   Commercial Uses:
   All uses allowed in the B-1 and B-2 Business Districts as either a permitted
or a special use, unless prohibited below.
   Warehouse/distribution uses, minimum size of fifteen (15) acres.
   Manufacturing uses, minimum size of fifteen (15) acres, subject to § §
10-7-1  and
10-7-2  of this Title.
   C.   Other Uses: Any other use authorized in a planned development district
ordinance approved by the Village Board for individual developments in
accordance with the procedures and standards of chapter 10, article A, "PUD
Planned Unit Development District", of this title. (Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-15-2015;
amd. Ord. 2018-02-01, 2-1-2018)
10-4J-3.1: SPECIAL USES:
The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in accordance with Chapter 10 (Special
Uses) of this Title and Section 4 (Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components), as
appropriate:
   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization that is co-located with an adult-
use dispensing organization. (Ord. 2019-11-26, 11-21-2019)
10-4J-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Any use that is not authorized in the B-1 and B-2 Business Districts shall not
be allowed, and in addition the following uses shall be specifically prohibited
in the SC-PD District:
   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organization.
   Adult-use cannabis cultivation organization.
   Adult-use cannabis processing organization.
   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
   Body piercing, body art or tattoo parlors or businesses.
   Currency exchanges and payday loan agencies.
   Electronic gaming or video stores, without retail sales.
   Mobile home or manufactured home parks as defined in 210 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 115/2.5 consisting of at least ten (10) contiguous acres including
ancillary uses for park management, rental of homesites with or without
manufactured homes sited thereon, and the sale of manufactured homes and
related products including, but not limited to, garages and storage sheds.
   Nursery, without retail sales.
   Pawnshops or precious metal purchasers.
   Stand-alone adult-use cannabis infuser organization. (Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-15-
2015; amd. Ord. 2019-11-26, 11-21-2019)
10-4J-5: APPLICABILITY:
From and after the date of adoption of this article, all uses in SC-PD District
shall be allowed only as a special use planned development when introduced as
part of a new development, or as an addition to an existing structure over five
percent (5%) of the building gross floor area. All applications in the SC-PD
District shall be processed as a planned unit development under chapter 10,
article A of this title. (Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-15-2015)
10-4J-6: PROCEDURES:
All applications for a project in the SC-PD shall be processed in accordance
with the requirements and procedures of this chapter, and chapter 10, article
A, "PUD Planned Unit Development District", of this title. (Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-
15-2015)
10-4J-7: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
   A.   All minor reconstruction or expansion as defined in subsection 10-10A-
7B2 of this title shall only require the approval of the Community Development
Director, after review and approval of all relevant Village departments.
   B.   All variations as defined below shall only require the approval of the
Community Development Director, after review and approval of all relevant
Village departments. If a request for an administrative variation is denied,
the petitioner may appeal the decision to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      1.   To permit a reduction in any required yard setback not to exceed ten
percent (10%) of the required setback required by the applicable regulations or
PUD ordinance approving the project;
      2.   To reduce the applicable off street parking or loading facilities
required by not more than twenty percent (20%);
      3.   To increase the maximum height by not more than ten percent (10%);
and
      4.   To increase the maximum lot coverage ratio by not more than twenty
percent (20%).
   C.   If the Community Development Director determines that the proposed
development plan is in substantial conformance with the general land use and
design guidelines of the comprehensive plan, the petition will be submitted to
the Plan Commission for public hearing, without the requirement for Village
Board review as required in subsection 10-10A-6C2a of this title. (Ord. 2015-
01-02, 1-15-2015)
10-4J-8: COMBINED PRELIMINARY/FINAL PLAN:
If the Community Development Director determines that the proposed development
plan is in substantial conformance with the general land use and design
guidelines of the comprehensive plan, the petitioner will have the option of
submitting a combined preliminary and final plan simultaneously to the Plan
Commission for public hearing, without the requirement for a two (2) step
process as required in subsection 10-10A-6C2b of this title. (Ord. 2015-01-02,
1-15-2015)
10-4J-9: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Existing land uses that are not permitted in the SC-PD Zoning District
(such as existing industrial uses) are considered legally nonconforming. Those
uses of land may continue until such time as the properties are sold and
redeveloped for a new use.
   B.   All uses existing prior to the date of adoption of this article, when
renovated or altered shall be exempt from the requirement to be processed as a
planned unit development (PUD) under chapter 10, article A of this title, as
long as the use does not change. (Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-15-2015)
CHAPTER 5
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. TC TOWN CENTER DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Purpose
10-5A-2: Permitted Uses
10-5A-3: Special Uses
10-5A-4: Conditions Of Use
10-5A-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-5A-6: Yard Areas
10-5A-7: Building Height
10-5A-8: Signs
10-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The purposes of the town center district are:
   A.   To implement pertinent village goals and policies for the town center
district as expressed in the Winfield comprehensive development plan, as
amended, and general development plan map, as amended;
   B.   To strengthen the town center of Winfield;
   C.   To cause the town center to continue to be a focal point of community
life;
   D.   To encourage economic, social and cultural activity within the town
center;
   E.   To influence the town center to be compact and consolidated;
   F.   To strengthen the town center as a key business area within Winfield;
   G.   To cause the town center to be an active, prosperous, pleasant place to
be; and
   H.   To create a unique identity by causing new development in the town
center to harmonize with the commercial architecture of the turn of the
century. (Ord. 2012-02-02, 2-2-2012)
10-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the town center district:
Accessory uses in accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Antique shops.
Apparel shops.
Art and craft material stores.
Art galleries and studios, on other than main floor.
Bait shop.
Bakery shops, including the baking of food products when prepared for retail
sale on the premises only.
Banks and financial institutions including drive-in teller facilities.
Barbershop.
Beauty shop.
Bed and breakfasts.
Bicycle stores; sales, rental and repair.
Book and stationery stores.
Business daycare facilities.
Cameras and photographic supply shops for retail sale only.
Candy and ice cream shops.
Carpet and rug stores.
Catalog office for mail order stores.
China and glassware stores.
Cleaners, dry cleaning and laundry receiving only, processing to be done
elsewhere.
Clothing stores.
Clubs and lodges, private.
Coin and philatelic stores.
Computer office and sales, retail only.
Currency exchanges.
Delicatessens.
Drugstores.
Dry goods stores.
Dwelling, existing single-family.
Dwelling, existing single-family attached or two-family.
Dwelling units above the first floor only.
Flower shop/florist shops, but excluding conservatories and greenhouses on the
premises.
Food, meat and fruit stores.
Furrier, when conducted for retail trade on premises only.
Gift shops.
Group care homes.
Hardware stores (retail only).
Hat shops.
Heating and ventilating store, not including any manufacturing or assembling.
Hobby stores.
Home business office.
Home daycare facility, in existing residences only.
Jewelry and watch sales and small repair shops.
Leather goods and luggage stores, primarily retail with incidental repair only.
Loan offices and finance companies.
Locksmith.
Medical and dental clinics.
Millinery shops.
Music and record shops (retail sales only).
Musical instrument sales and repair.
Newsstands.
Offices and artist/designer studios.
Package liquor stores.
Paint and wallpaper stores.
Parks and playgrounds, public or private.
Real estate offices.
Recreation facilities and community centers, public or commercial.
Restaurant, sit down only.
Restricted office.
Savings and loan associations, including walk-up and drive- in teller
facilities.
Shoe repair.
Shoe stores.
Tailor and dressmaking shops.
Tanning salons.
Taverns or pubs.
Tobacco and smoking equipment shops.
Toy stores.
Travel bureaus.
Utility and public service uses limited to the following:
Fire and police stations.
Libraries, public.
Municipal parking lots for motor vehicles.
Post offices.
Public utility collection offices.
Village governmental administrative facilities.
Veterinary clinics; no outside pens or runways for animals or outside storage
for supplies are permitted. (Ord. 2012-02-02, 2-2-2012)
10-5A-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Boarding, lodging or rooming houses.
Funeral homes and undertaker parlors.
Hotel, apartment.
Hotels and motels.
Launderette.
Multi-family townhouses and/or condominiums having one or more buildings per
lot.
Planned developments.
Public parking lots.
Restaurants, carryout and outdoor dining.
Other retail service uses not specifically listed above when determined by the
village board to have compatibility with the established uses on abutting
property.
In the review of an application for a special use permit within the town center
district, the plan commission and village board shall seek compatibility
between uses both within and adjacent to the town center district and shall
seek consistency with the Winfield comprehensive development plan update and
the stated purpose of this district. (Ord. 2012-02-02, 2-2-2012)
10-5A-4: CONDITIONS OF USE:
All dwelling, single-family or dwelling, single-family attached or two-family
uses existing prior to January 1, 2011, when renovated or altered shall be
exempt from the requirement to be processed under chapter 10, article A of this
title, as long as the use does not change.
All other uses allowed in this district as a permitted or special use shall be
subject to the following conditions:
   A.   All ground floor uses permitted in the retail corridor subarea use
designation of the town center plan shall be retail and service establishments
dealing directly with consumers.
   B.   Establishments of the "drive-in" type, offering goods or services
directly to customers waiting in motor vehicles, other than banks and savings
and loans, are not permitted.
   C.   There shall be no manufacture, processing or treatment of products
other than that which is clearly incidental and essential to the retail
business and office uses conducted on the same premises.
   D.   Such uses, operation or products shall not be objectionable due to
odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other similar causes.
   E.   From and after March 1, 2002, all uses in this district shall be
allowed only as a special use planned development when introduced as part of a
new development or as an addition to an existing structure, and all
applications therefor shall be processed under chapter 10, article A of this
title.
   F.   From and after March 1, 2002, no new building, structure or addition
shall be constructed in the town center district nor shall the facade of any
existing building or structure therein be renovated unless the following terms
and conditions have been met:
      1.   Detailed architectural and site plans for the new or renovated
building or structure, in accordance with the early 1900's commercial
architecture of the district, shall be submitted to the plan commission.
      2.   The plans for the new or renovated building or structure shall be
consistent with and shall meet the standards and requirements of the town
center plan (as set forth in the comprehensive plan of the village, as
amended), which town center plan is incorporated by reference herein.
      3.   The plans for the new or renovated building or structure shall
comply with the design guidelines of the town center plan for the particular
subarea in which the building or structure will be located, which design
guidelines shall be construed as mandatory in this district.
      4.   The use proposed for the new or renovated building or structure
shall comply with the town center plan subarea use designation for the property
on which the building or structure will be located.
      5.   The applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating that the new or
renovated building or structure meets the requirements of this article and the
other applicable provisions of this code.
      6.   The new or renovated building or structure shall only be constructed
in accordance with the detailed architectural plan and site plan as may be
approved by the village board of trustees pursuant to this article and chapter
10, article A of this title. (Ord. 2012-02-02, 2-2-2012)
10-5A-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
The off street parking and loading requirements set forth in chapter 9 of this
title shall apply to the town center district. (Ord. 2012-02-02, 2-2-2012)
10-5A-6: YARD AREAS:
All dwelling, single-family or dwelling, single-family attached or two-family
uses existing prior to January 1, 2011, shall follow the yard areas set forth
in section 10-4A.3-6 of this title.
All other uses allowed in this district as a permitted or special use shall be
subject to the following conditions:
   A.   Front Yard: No front yard requirement.
   B.   Side Yard: No side yard requirement. If an interior side yard is
provided, it shall be not less than ten feet (10') wide.
   C.   Rear Yard: No rear yard requirement.
   D.   Transitional Yards: Where the town center district abuts a residence
district, transitional yards shall be required in accordance with the following
regulations:
      1.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line of
property in an adjacent residence district, a side yard of fifteen feet (15')
shall be required.
      2.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line of property in
an adjacent residence district, a rear yard of fifteen feet (15') shall be
required.
      3.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line of property in
an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along such rear lot
line. Such yard shall be twenty feet (20') in depth.
      4.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with the
front line of an adjacent lot located in a residence district, a yard of not
less than ten feet (10') shall be provided.
      5.   Transitional yards shall be unobstructed from the lowest level to
the sky except as may be allowed in subsection 10-2-7A of this title.
The village board, upon the recommendation of the plan commission, may vary any
transitional rear or side yard area requirement in the town center district or
part of the special use permit requirements if it finds that such variance
would cause improved compatibility among uses within the town center district
or between uses within the town center district and uses within districts
abutting the subject property.
   E.   Special Uses: Yard requirements shall be specified with the granting of
a special use permit. (Ord. 2012-02-02, 2-2-2012)
10-5A-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: Unless otherwise approved by the village board for good
cause shown consistent with the purpose of the town center plan, the height of
any structure shall not exceed three (3) stories or thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Special Uses: Maximum height limitations shall be specified with the
granting of a special use permit. (Ord. 2012-02-02, 2-2-2012)
10-5A-8: SIGNS:
All signs shall comply with the provisions of chapter 2 of this title, unless
specifically exempted in accordance with the provisions of this title. (Ord.
2012-02-02, 2-2-2012)
ARTICLE B. B-1 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Purpose
10-5B-2: Permitted Uses
10-5B-3: Special Uses
10-5B-3.1: Prohibited Uses
10-5B-4: Conditions Of Use
10-5B-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-5B-6: Yard Areas
10-5B-7: Building Height
10-5B-8: Signs
10-5B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the B-1 district is to provide for higher intensities of land
use and building bulk than permitted and/or practical within the town center
district so as to allow for a diversity of business, commercial and limited
service uses, thereby increasing the selection of goods and services for
residents of Winfield and surrounding communities while simultaneously
increasing revenues for the village. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following retail and service uses are permitted, provided they are operated
entirely within a building unless expressly permitted in accordance with
chapters 2 and 9 of this title:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted within the TC town center
district.
Accessory uses, including off street parking and loading facilities as
permitted or required in accordance with the provisions of chapter 2 of this
title.
Amusement establishments limited to the following:
Billiard parlors.
Bowling alleys.
Ice skating rinks.
Roller skating rinks.
Automobile repair, minor only with no convenience retail sales.
Automotive parts accessory stores, new or rebuilt.
Clubs and lodges, private.
Dry cleaning establishments, retail; employing not more than five (5) persons
and equipment for dry cleaning not to exceed one unit or thirty (30) pounds'
capacity.
Electric and household appliance store including radio and television sales and
repair.
Employment agencies.
Food supermarkets.
Furniture stores, including upholstering when conducted as part of the retail
operation and secondary to the principal use.
Furrier shops, including storage and conditioning of furs.
Garden supply and feed stores.
Hand laundries.
Home improvement stores.
Launderette.
Office supply stores.
Parks and playgrounds, public or private.
Pet shops, not including animal hospitals.
Schools; music, dance or business.
Telephone answering services.
Tobacco and smoking equipment shops. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord.
2011-02-04, 2-17-2011)
10-5B-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
   Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted as special uses within the TC
town center district.
   Automobile laundry, including tunnel with conveyor, self- service or roll
over as accessory uses.
   Automobile repair, major.
   Automobile sales.
   Automobile service stations, including convenience retail sales.
   Catering establishments.
   Drive-through/drive-in establishment.
   Kennel, commercial or noncommercial.
   Mobile home or manufactured home parks as defined in 210 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 115/2.5 consisting of at least ten (10) contiguous acres including
ancillary uses for park management, rental of home sites with or without
manufactured homes sited thereon, and the sale of manufactured homes and
related products including, but not limited to, garages and storage sheds.
   Movie and other theaters, not including outdoor theaters.
   Nursery, with or without retail sales.
   Recreation facility and community centers; commercial, institutional or
public.
   Restaurant, carryout.
   Utility and other public service uses limited to the following:
      Electric substations and distribution centers.
      Fire and police stations.
      Gas regulator stations.
      Libraries, public.
      Telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers and telephone transmission
equipment buildings.
      Wells, pumping stations, water reservoirs, and water towers.
The following special uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined in accordance with Chapter 10 (Special
Uses) of this Title and Section 4 (Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components), as
appropriate:
   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization in accordance with the procedures
outlined in accordance with Chapter 10 (Special Uses) of this Title and Section
4 (Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components). The B-1 zoning district is required
to be along St. Charles Road, North Avenue or Roosevelt Road.
   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization that is co-located with an adult-
use dispensing organization along St. Charles Road or North Avenue. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-03, 2-17-2011; Ord. 2011-02-04, 2-17-2011;
Ord. 2019-11-26, 11-21-2019)
10-5B-3.1: PROHIBITED USES:
   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organization.
   Adult-use cannabis cultivation organization.
   Adult-use cannabis processing organization.
   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
   Stand-alone adult-use cannabis infuser. (Ord. 2019-11-26, 11-21-2019)
10-5B-4: CONDITIONS OF USE:
All uses permitted in this district shall be subject to the following
conditions:
   A.   There shall be no manufacture, processing or treatment of products
other than those which are clearly incidental and essential to the business
conducted on the same premises.
   B.   Such uses, operation or products shall not be objectionable odors,
dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other similar attributes.
   C.   Special conditions: All mobile home parks shall be governed solely by
and shall comply with the minimum site size per unit, perimeter property
setback lines, spacing between units and other bulk, development and
operational regulations as set forth in the Illinois mobile home park act, 210
Illinois Compiled Statutes 115 et seq., and other state of Illinois statutes
and regulations governing mobile homes or mobile home parks or mobile homes as
defined in said act.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-12-14, 12-15-2022)
10-5B-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking and loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5B-6: YARD AREAS:
   A.   Front Yard: No front yard requirement.
   B.   Side Yard: No side yard requirement. If an interior side yard is
provided, it shall be not less than five feet (5') wide.
   C.   Rear Yard: No rear yard requirement.
   D.   Transitional Yards: Where a B-1 district abuts a residence district,
transitional yards shall be provided in accordance with the following
regulations:
      1.   Where a side or rear lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line
of property in an adjacent residence district, a side yard of fifteen feet
(15') shall be required.
      2.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line of property in
an adjacent residence district, a rear yard of fifteen feet (15') shall be
required.
      3.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line of property in
an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along such rear lot
line. Such yard shall be twenty feet (20') in depth.
      4.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with the
front line of an adjacent lot located in a residence district, a yard of not
less than ten feet (10') shall be provided.
      5.   Transitional yards shall be unobstructed from the lowest level to
the sky except as may be allowed in subsection 10-2-7A of this title.
   E.   Special Uses: Yard requirements shall be specified with the granting of
a special use permit. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5B-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: The height of any structure shall not exceed two (2)
stories or forty feet (40'), whichever is lower.
   B.   Special Use Permit: Maximum height limitations shall be specified with
the granting of a special use permit. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5B-8: SIGNS:
All signs shall comply with the provisions of title 9, chapter 3 of this code,
unless specifically exempted in accordance with the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE C. B-2 GENERAL SERVICES DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Purpose
10-5C-2: Permitted Uses
10-5C-3: Special Uses
10-5C-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-5C-5: Lot Size
10-5C-6: Yard Areas
10-5C-7: Building Height
10-5C-8: Signs
10-5C-9: Conditions Of Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-5C-1: PURPOSE:
The B-2 district is established to provide support uses for the B-2A district;
support for a human health center complex including any allied uses which may
be located in this district and in separate buildings or on individual parcels
of land within this district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Accessory structures or uses, including off street parking and loading
facilities as permitted in accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Ambulance facilities.
Bed and breakfasts.
Business daycare facilities and other institutions for the care of the aged and
for children.
Flower shops.
Home business office.
Home daycare facilities.
Hospitals.
Laboratories, including medical, dental, research and testing and other
research laboratories.
Launderette.
Medical and dental offices.
Nursing homes.
Offices or clinics for medical, dental or other health professionals only.
Opticians, optometrists.
Orthopedic and medical appliance stores, but not including the assembly or
manufacturing of such articles.
Sanatoriums. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5C-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Boarding, lodging, or rooming houses.
Drive-through/drive-in establishments.
Hotel, apartment.
Hotels and motels.
Nursery, with or without retail sales.
Planned developments.
Recreation facility; commercial, institutional or public.
Rehabilitation centers.
Utility and other public service uses limited to the following:
Electric substations and distribution centers.
Fire and police stations.
Gas regulator stations.
Libraries, public.
Telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers and telephone transmission
equipment buildings.
Wells, pumping stations, water reservoirs, and water towers. (Ord. 2010-04-07,
4-1-2010)
10-5C-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in
chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5C-5: LOT SIZE:
No minimum lot size requirement. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5C-6: YARD AREAS:
   A.   Front Yard: No front yard requirement.
   B.   Side Yard: No side yard requirement. If an interior yard is provided,
it shall be not less than five feet (5') wide.
   C.   Rear Yard: No rear yard requirement.
   D.   Transitional Yards: Where a B-2 district adjoins a residence district,
transitional yards shall be provided in accordance with the following
regulations:
      1.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line of
property in an adjacent residence district, a side yard of fifteen feet (15')
shall be required.
      2.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line of property in
an adjacent residence district, a rear yard of fifteen feet (15') shall be
required.
      3.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line of property in
an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along such rear lot
line. Such yard shall be twenty feet (20') in depth.
      4.   Transitional yards shall be unobstructed from the lowest level to
the sky except as allowed in subsection 10-2-7A of this title.
   E.   Special Uses: Yard requirements shall be specified with the granting of
a special use permit. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5C-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: The height of any structure shall not exceed three (3)
stories, nor shall it exceed forty five feet (45'), except as provided herein.
   B.   Special Use Permit: Maximum height limitations shall be specified with
the granting of a special use permit. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5C-8: SIGNS:
All signs shall comply with the provisions of title 9, chapter 3 of this code,
unless specifically exempted in accordance with the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5C-9: CONDITIONS OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
From and after November 1, 2007, all uses in this district shall be allowed
only as a special use planned development when introduced as part of a new
development or as an addition to an existing structure and all applications
therefor shall be processed under chapter 10, article A of this title. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE D. B-2A HEALTH SERVICES DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5D-1: Purpose
10-5D-2: Permitted Uses
10-5D-3: Special Uses
10-5D-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-5D-5: Lot Size
10-5D-6: Yard Areas
10-5D-7: Building Height
10-5D-8: Signs
10-5D-9: Conditions Of Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-5D-1: PURPOSE:
The B-2A district is established to provide for a human health center complex,
including various facilities therein and any allied uses which may be located
in this district and in separate buildings or on individual parcels of land
within this district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5D-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted within the B-2 general services
district, excluding bed and breakfasts.
Restaurants/cafeterias, as incidental uses to a hospital use only. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5D-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10 of this title:
Any of the primary or accessory uses permitted as special uses within the B-
2 general services district, with the exception of retail and nonretail
nurseries.
Helistops.
Planned developments. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5D-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking and loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 9 of this title, or as otherwise provided herein. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5D-5: LOT SIZE:
No minimum lot size requirement. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5D-6: YARD AREAS:
All buildings, structures and uses permitted in this district shall be subject
to the following conditions:
   A.   Front Yard: Where a B-2A district abuts a public street right of way, a
front yard shall be provided along such right of way, the width of which shall
be no less than ten feet (10').
   B.   Side Yard: Where an interior side yard is adjacent to a nonresidential
district, a side yard shall be provided, the width of which shall be no less
than five feet (5').
   C.   Rear Yard: Where a rear yard is adjacent to a nonresidential district,
a rear yard shall be provided, the width of which shall be no less than five
feet (5').
   D.   Transitional Yards: Where a B-2A district abuts a residence district,
transitional yards shall be provided in accordance with the following
regulations:
      1.   In a B-2A district, where a side or rear lot line coincides with a
side or rear lot line of property in an adjacent residential district, a yard
shall be provided along such side or rear lot line, the width of which shall be
no less than:
         a.   Fifty feet (50') for permitted uses.
         b.   Twenty feet (20') for accessory uses.
      2.   Transitional yards shall be unobstructed from the lowest level to
the sky, except as allowed in subsection 10-2-7A of this title, or as otherwise
provided herein. Surface parking and roadways are permitted within transitional
yards, but not closer than five feet (5') to the property line.
   E.   Special Uses: Yard requirements shall be specified with the granting of
a special use permit. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5D-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The height of any structure shall not exceed the following:
   A.   Building additions attached to the main building will not exceed the
height of the existing building on a horizontal plane.
   B.   Freestanding buildings in the permitted use category shall not exceed
sixty five feet (65') in height.
   C.   Any permitted use building over fifty feet (50') in height shall be set
back from the applicable setback line one additional foot for each one foot
(1') that said building exceeds fifty feet (50').
   D.   Freestanding accessory use buildings shall not exceed forty eight feet
(48') in height.
   E.   Accessory use buildings within a transitional yard abutting a
residential district between twenty feet (20') and fifty feet (50') from the
property line shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in height; except, that
parking structures between twenty feet (20') and thirty feet (30') shall not
exceed seventeen feet (17') in height, and parking structures between thirty
feet (30') and fifty feet (50') shall not exceed twenty four feet (24') in
height.
   F.   No parking structure shall exceed forty eight feet (48') in height, and
in buildings combining parking and other permitted uses, the parking component
of said building shall not exceed forty eight feet (48') in height.
   G.   No parking structure between fifty feet (50') and one hundred feet
(100') from the property line of a transitional yard abutting a residential
district shall exceed thirty six feet (36') in height.
   H.   In the case of parking structures, "height" means the vertical distance
between the average elevation of the ground along the side of the structure
facing a residential district and the top of the parking deck or roof. In the
event that more than one side faces a residential district, computation of
height shall be based on the side which results in the lowest height. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5D-8: SIGNS:
All signs shall comply with the provisions of title 9, chapter 3 of this code,
unless specifically exempted in accordance with the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-5D-9: CONDITIONS OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
From and after November 1, 2007, all uses in this district shall be allowed
only as a special use planned development when introduced as part of a new
development or as an addition to an existing structure and all applications
therefor shall be processed under chapter 10, article A of this title. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
ARTICLE E. RW-PD ROOSEVELT AND WINFIELD ROAD CORRIDOR - PLANNED DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5E-1: Purpose
10-5E-2: Location And Public Service
10-5E-3: Permitted Uses
10-5E-4: Prohibited Uses
10-5E-5: Applicability
10-5E-6: Procedures
10-5E-7: Administrative Review
10-5E-8: Combined Preliminary/Final Plan
10-5E-9: Nonconforming Uses
10-5E-1: PURPOSE:
The RW-PD district is established to provide for the development of a
compatible mixture of commercial, open space, and limited office uses that will
serve to expand the village sales and property tax base. It is intended to
permit the establishment of unified commercial developments, not single lot or
use buildings, with carefully organized structures, service areas, parking
areas, stormwater and landscaped open space; with design features that preserve
wetlands; consolidated access which reduce traffic conflicts; and with
landscaping and buffers which protect property values in surrounding
neighborhoods. Specific land uses, design standards, open spaces, vehicular,
bicycle and pedestrian access, and landscape areas allowed in the RW-PD
district shall adhere to the principles and guidelines described in the
comprehensive plan for the village of Winfield, as amended. The procedures and
standards that govern the RW-PD district are set forth in subsection 10-10A-3D,
"Roosevelt And Winfield Road Corridor - Planned Development (RW-PD) District",
of this title unless otherwise noted in this chapter. (Ord. 2015-01-01, 1-15-
2015)
10-5E-2: LOCATION AND PUBLIC SERVICE:
The RW-PD district is intended to be applied to lands in the immediate vicinity
of the Roosevelt Road and Winfield Road intersection, having substantial
frontage along either roads, at the village's southern boundary. When mapped,
the district shall have a minimum size of eight (8) acres, in accordance with
the area shown on the future land use plan as "Roosevelt-Winfield corridor
mixed use" of the village's comprehensive plan, and shall be served by public
water and sewer. Any future right of way taking for the improvement or
expansion of Roosevelt Road or Winfield Road shall be counted in satisfying the
minimum district size requirement. (Ord. 2015-01-01, 1-15-2015)
10-5E-3: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses may be permitted in the RW-PD district, subject to approval
as part of an approved planned development in accordance with the design
standards and planned unit development (PUD) process requirements contained in
subsection
10-10A-3D of this title:
   A.   Commercial and all other uses allowed in the B-1 general business
district as either a permitted or special use, unless prohibited below.
   B.   Any other use authorized in a planned development district ordinance
approved by the village board for individual developments in accordance with
the procedures and standards of chapter 10, article A, "PUD Planned Unit
Development District", of this title. (Ord. 2015-01-01, 1-15-2015)
10-5E-4: PROHIBITED USES:
Any use that is not authorized in the B-1 business district shall not be
allowed, and in addition the following uses shall be specifically prohibited in
the RW-PD district:
   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organization.
   Adult-use cannabis cultivation organization.
   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization.
   Adult-use cannabis processing organization.
   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
   Amusement establishments limited to the following:
   A.   Billiard parlors.
   B.   Roller and ice skating rinks.
   Automobile repair, major.
   Automobile repair, minor only with no convenience retail sales.
   Banks and offices over two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
   Body piercing, body art or tattoo parlors or businesses.
   Child or adult daycare facilities.
   Clubs and lodges, private.
   Currency exchanges and payday loan agencies.
   Electronic gaming or video stores, without retail sales.
   Employment agencies.
   Hand laundries.
   Kennel, commercial or noncommercial.
   Launderette.
   Libraries, public.
   Mobile home or manufactured home parks as defined in 210 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 115/2.5 consisting of at least ten (10) contiguous acres including
ancillary uses for park management, rental of homesites with or without
manufactured homes sited thereon, and the sale of manufactured homes and
related products including, but not limited to, garages and storage sheds.
   Nursery, without retail sales.
   Outdoor theaters.
   Parks and playgrounds, public or private.
   Pawnshops or precious metal purchasers.
   Recreation facility and community centers; commercial, institutional or
public.
   Schools; music, dance or business.
   Telephone answering services. (Ord. 2015-01-01, 1-15-2015; amd. Ord. 2019-
11-26, 11-21-2019)
10-5E-5: APPLICABILITY:
From and after the date of adoption of this article, all uses in RW-PD district
shall be allowed only as a special use planned development when introduced as
part of a new development, or as an addition to an existing structure over five
percent (5%) of the building gross floor area. All applications in the RW-PD
district shall be processed as a planned unit development (PUD) under chapter
10, article A of this title. (Ord. 2015-01-01, 1-15-2015)
10-5E-6: PROCEDURES:
All applications for a project in the RW-PD shall be processed in accordance
with the requirements and procedures of this chapter, and chapter 10, article
A, "PUD Planned Unit Development District", of this title. (Ord. 2015-01-01, 1-
15-2015)
10-5E-7: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
   A.   All minor reconstruction or expansion as defined in subsection
10-10A-7B2 of this title shall only require the approval of the community
development director, after review and approval of all relevant village
departments.
   B.   All variations as defined below shall only require the approval of the
community development director, after review and approval of all relevant
village departments. If a request for an administrative variation is denied,
the petitioner may appeal the decision to the zoning board of appeals.
      1.   To permit a reduction in any required yard setback not to exceed ten
percent (10%) of the required setback required by the applicable regulations or
PUD ordinance approving the project;
      2.   To reduce the applicable off street parking or loading facilities
required by not more than twenty percent (20%);
      3.   To increase the maximum height by not more than ten percent (10%);
and
      4.   To increase the maximum lot coverage ratio by not more than twenty
percent (20%).
If the community development director determines that the proposed development
plan is in substantial conformance with the general land use and design
guidelines of the comprehensive plan, the petition will be submitted to the
plan commission for public hearing, without the requirement for village board
review as required in section
10-10A-6C2a of this title. (Ord. 2015-01-01, 1-15-2015)
10-5E-8: COMBINED PRELIMINARY/FINAL PLAN:
If the community development director determines that the proposed development
plan is in substantial conformance with the general land use and design
guidelines of the comprehensive plan, the petitioner will have the option of
submitting a combined preliminary and final plan simultaneously to the plan
commission for public hearing, without the requirement for a two (2) step
process as required in subsection
10-10A-6C2b of this title. (Ord. 2015-01-01, 1-15-2015)
10-5E-9: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Existing land uses that are not permitted in the RW-PD zoning district
(such as existing single-family homes) are considered legally nonconforming.
Those uses of land may continue until such time as the properties are sold and
redeveloped for the new use.
   B.   All dwellings (single-family detached dwelling, single-family attached
dwelling, or two-family dwellings) existing prior to the date of the adoption
of this article, when renovated or altered shall be exempt from the requirement
to be processed as a planned unit development (PUD) under chapter 10, article A
of this title, as long as the use does not change. (Ord. 2015-01-01, 1-15-2015)
CHAPTER 6
P-1 PUBLIC DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Permitted Uses
10-6-3: Special Uses
10-6-4: Conditions Of Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-6-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-6-6: Lot Size
10-6-7: Yard Areas
10-6-8: Building Height
10-6-9: Signs
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
The P-1 public district is intended to provide for the zoning and common
classification of publicly owned land within the village of Winfield. Public
land may be zoned within this district or may be allowed within other districts
established in this zoning ordinance depending upon specified use regulations.
No privately owned property or structures are allowed within the P-1 public
district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Accessory uses in accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Publicly owned property and structures used for public purposes:
DuPage County facilities:
Civil defense facilities.
Fire truck storage.
Highway department.
Pistol range.
Public parks or forest preserves.
Youth home.
Fire district owned property.
Library district owned property.
Park district owned property.
Village of Winfield owned property.
Other publicly owned facilities not listed above. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-6-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit, including, but not
limited to, off street parking and off street loading:
Planned developments.
Recreation facility; institutional or public.
Accessory uses to the above allowable special uses. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-6-4: CONDITIONS OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
All new buildings, structures and uses in this district require a site plan
approval by the village board. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-6-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking and loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with chapter 9
of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-6-6: LOT SIZE:
No requirement except where a lot abuts a residence district as recommended by
the plan commission and approved by the village board. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010)
10-6-7: YARD AREAS:
   A.   Front Yard: No front yard requirement.
   B.   Side Yard: No side yard requirement.
   C.   Rear Yard: No rear yard requirement.
   D.   Transitional Yards: Where a front, side, rear lot line abuts a
residence district, transitional yards may be required and approved by the
village board upon plan commission recommendation. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-6-8: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No requirement except where abutting upon residence use as recommended by the
plan commission and approved by the village board. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-6-9: SIGNS:
All signs shall comply with the provisions of title 9, chapter 3 of this code,
unless specifically exempted in accordance with the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
CHAPTER 7
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Uses To Be Enclosed
10-7-2: Performance Standards
10-7-1: USES TO BE ENCLOSED:
All uses, except off street parking spaces for vehicles in operable condition
and off street loading and unloading berths shall be within completely enclosed
buildings. No outdoor storage or operation is permitted. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010)
10-7-2: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Any use established in an industrial district shall be operated in such a
manner as to comply with applicable performance standards as hereinafter set
forth governing noise, smoke, particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter,
odors, fire and explosive hazards, or vibration, glare or heat; and no use
shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with such applicable performance
standards. Certification from a testing laboratory, approved by the board of
trustees, indicating compliance with the applicable performance standards shall
accompany application for a building permit.
   A.   Noise: Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and
associated octave band filter manufactured according to standards prescribed by
the American Standards Association. Measurements shall be made in using the
flat network of the sound level meter, and shall include continuous noise and
those noises which cause rapid fluctuations of the needle of the sound level
meter with a variation of no more than plus or minus two (±2) decibels. Noises
incapable of being measured shall be measured with the impact noise meter
manufactured according to standards prescribed by the American Standards
Association, and shall comply with the applicable performance standards for
noise.
At no point, either on the boundary of a residence or business district or at
one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the nearest property line of a plant
or operation, whichever distance is greater, shall the sound pressure level of
any individual operation or plant (other than background noises produced by
sources not under control of this title such as the operation of motor vehicles
or other transportation facilities) exceed the decibel levels in the designated
octave bands shown in the following table:
Octave Band (Frequency, Cycles Per Maximum Permitted Sound Level Decibels
Second)
Octave Band (Frequency, Cycles Maximum Permitted Sound Level Decibels
Per Second)                    Along Residence District Along Business District
                               Boundaries               Boundaries
0 to 75                        72                       75
76 to 150                      67                       70
151 to 300                     59                       63
301 to 600                     52                       57
601 to 1,200                   46                       52
1,201 to 2,400                 40                       45
2,401 to 4,800                 34                       40
Above 4,800                    32                       38
 
   B.   Vibration: No testing or research or other activity on the lot shall
cause at any time ground transmitted vibrations in excess of the limits set
forth below. Vibration (the periodic displacement, measured in inches, of
earth) shall be measured at any point along a residence district boundary line
with a three (3) component measuring instrument approved by the board of
trustees and shall be expressed displacement in inches.
 
Frequency (Cycles Per Second) Maximum Permitted Displacement Along Residence
                              District Boundaries (In Inches)
0 to 10                       0.0008
11 to 20                      0.0005
21 to 30                      0.0002
31 to 40                      0.0002
40 and over                   0.0001
 
   C.   Smoke And Particulate Matter: The emission of smoke or particulate
matter in such manner or quantity as to endanger or to be detrimental to the
public health, safety, comfort or welfare is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and shall be unlawful.
For the purpose of grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann chart,
published and used by the United States school of mines, shall be employed. The
emission of smoke or particulate matter of a density greater than no. 2 on the
Ringelmann chart is prohibited at all times except as otherwise provided
hereinafter:
      1.   Particulate Matter:
         a.   The emission from all sources within any lot area of particulate
matter containing more than ten percent (10%) by weight of particles having a
particle diameter larger than forty four (44) microns is prohibited.
         b.   Dust and other types of air pollution, borne by the wind from
such sources as storage areas, yards, roads and the like, within lot
boundaries, shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving,
fencing or other acceptable means. Emission of particulate matter from such
sources in excess of the weight limitation heretofore specified is prohibited.
      2.   Smoke: The emission of more than eight (8) smoke units per hour per
stack is prohibited, including smoke of a density in excess of Ringelmann no.
2. However, during one 1-hour period in each twenty four (24) hour day, each
stack may emit up to sixteen (16) smoke units when blowing soot in cleaning
fires. Only during fire cleaning periods, however, shall smoke of Ringelmann
no. 3 be permitted, and then for not more than three (3) minutes.
   D.   Toxic Or Noxious Matter: No use shall, for any period of time,
discharge across the boundaries of the lot wherein it is located toxic or
noxious matter in such concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, comfort or welfare or cause injury or damage to property
or business.
   E.   Odors: The emission of odorous matter shall be controlled in accordance
with the nuisance ordinance of the village.
   F.   Fire:
      1.   The storage or utilization of solid materials or products with the
potential for incombustible to moderate burning is permitted.
      2.   The storage or utilization of solid materials or products with the
potential for free or active burning is permitted, provided the following
conditions are met:
         a.   Said materials or products shall be stored or utilized within
completely enclosed buildings or structures having incombustible exterior walls
and handled in accordance with the standards and regulations of the village and
the national fire protection association 1 .
         b.   All such buildings shall be set back at least forty feet (40')
from all lot lines or in lieu thereof, shall be protected throughout by an
automatic fire extinguishing system installed in accordance with the standards
and requirements of the village and the national fire protection association.
      3.   The storage or utilization of flammable liquids or materials which
produce flammable or explosive vapors shall be permitted in accordance with the
following limitations, exclusive of storage in underground tanks and exclusive
of storage of finished products in the original sealed containers:
         a.   Said materials or products shall be stored or utilized within
completely enclosed buildings or structures having incombustible exterior walls
and handled in accordance with the standards and regulations of the village and
the national fire protection association.
         b.   All such buildings shall be set back at least forty feet (40')
from all lot lines or in lieu thereof, shall be protected throughout by an
automatic fire extinguishing system installed in accordance with the standards
and regulations of the village and the national fire protection association.
         c.   The capacity of flammable liquids in excess of the following
quantities shall not be permitted:
 
Closed Cup Flashpoint                    Quantity In Gallons
Less than 24°F                          1,000
24°F to less than 105°F                10,000
105°F to less than 187°F               50,000
Total of all flammable liquids permitted 50,000
 
   G.   Glare Or Heat: Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be
performed within a completely enclosed building in such a manner as not to
create a public nuisance or hazard along lot lines. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 9-1-1H of this code.
ARTICLE A. L-1 LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Purpose
10-7A-2: Permitted Uses
10-7A-3: Special Uses
10-7A-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-7A-5: Yard Areas
10-7A-6: Building Height
10-7A-7: Signs
10-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the L-1 limited industrial district is to permit and control the
development of industry within Winfield, to create jobs, to enhance the tax
base and to implement the policy of the comprehensive development plan 1 .
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-2-6 of this code.
10-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses in accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-7 of this title.
Automobile repair, major or minor.
Blueprinting and photocopying establishments.
Light machinery production; appliances, business machines, etc.
Offices.
Printing and publishing establishments.
Research laboratories.
Schools, including commercial or trade.
Telephone exchanges. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-04, 2-17-
2011)
10-7A-3: SPECIAL USES:
The village board, upon recommendation of the plan commission, may grant a
special permit to allow light manufacturing establishments, warehouses and
wholesale establishments which meet the performance standards, and which it
finds to be compatible with any residential uses in the area, and also which it
finds will not cause automobile or truck traffic in proportions detrimental to
residences in the area. Additional permitted special uses include the
following:
Kennel, commercial or noncommercial.
Planned developments.
Recreation facility; commercial, institutional, or public.
Utility and other public service uses limited to the following:
Electric substations and distribution centers.
Fire and police stations.
Gas regulator stations.
Libraries, public.
Telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers and telephone transmission
equipment buildings.
Wells, pumping stations, water reservoirs, and water towers. (Ord. 2010-04-07,
4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-02-04, 2-17-2011)
10-7A-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required or permitted in
chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-7A-5: YARD AREAS:
   A.   Front Yard: Not less than forty feet (40') in depth.
   B.   Side Yards: Not less than ten feet (10'). Each side yard shall be
increased five feet (5') for each story over one.
   C.   Rear Yard: Not less than twenty feet (20') in depth; except, a rear
yard abutting on a railroad right of way shall be reduced to a minimum of five
feet (5') in depth.
   D.   Transitional Yards: Where the L-1 district abuts a residence district,
transitional yards shall be provided in accordance with the following
regulations:
      1.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line of
property in an adjacent residence district, a side yard of fifteen feet (15')
shall be required.
      2.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line of property in
an adjacent residence district, a rear yard of twenty feet (20') shall be
required.
      3.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line of property in
an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along such rear lot
line. Such yard shall be forty feet (40') in depth.
      4.   Transitional yards shall be unobstructed from the lowest level to
the sky, except as may be allowed in chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07,
4-1-2010)
10-7A-6: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Maximum Height: Not more than two (2) stories or forty feet (40'),
whichever is lower.
   B.   Special Use: Maximum height limitations shall be specified with the
granting of a special use permit. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-7A-7: SIGNS:
All signs shall comply with the provisions of title 9, chapter 3 of this code,
unless specifically exempted in accordance with the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
CHAPTER 8
NONCONFORMING LOTS, BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
10-8-3: Nonconforming Buildings Or Structures
10-8-4: Nonconforming Uses
10-8-5: Registration Of Nonconforming Uses, Buildings And Structures
10-8-6: Existing Special Uses Exempt
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
uses, buildings and structures and to specify those circumstances and
conditions under which those nonconforming buildings, structures and uses shall
be gradually eliminated upon reaching the end of their respective normal useful
life, in accordance with the authority granted by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-13-1. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-8-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
Any lot of record, on the effective date of the enactment hereof, which does
not comply with the requirements of the district in which it is located as to
area and lot width, may be used for the erection of a building intended for a
use permitted in the district in which the lot is located; provided, however,
that such building complies with all setback and other applicable requirements
of this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-8-3: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
An existing, nonconforming building or structure which does not comply with the
applicable lot size requirements or building standard regulations in the
district in which it is located, may be continued except as otherwise permitted
by this chapter. Nonconforming buildings and structures shall be subject to the
following regulations:
   A.   Enlargement, Repair Or Alteration:
      1.   A nonconforming building or structure may be enlarged, maintained,
repaired or structurally altered. No such enlargement, maintenance, repair, or
structural alteration shall create either an additional nonconformity or
increase the existing nonconformity of all or any part of the building or
structure. Damaged or destroyed buildings or structures shall be subject to the
restrictions contained in subsection B of this section.
      2.   Nothing in this title shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition a building or other structure (other than a
damaged or destroyed building or other structure subject to the provisions of
subsection B of this section) in accordance with the order of the zoning
official who declares such building or other structure to be unsafe and orders
its restoration to a safe condition.
   B.   Damage Or Destruction:
      1.   In the event that a nonconforming building or structure is damaged
or destroyed to the extent that the cost of restoration shall exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of such building or structure, no repairs or
reconstruction shall be made unless such restoration or construction shall be
made to conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located.
      2.   If such damage or destruction does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the market value of the building or structure, repairs and restoration must
begin within twelve (12) months from the date of the damage or destruction or
such restoration shall conform to all the provisions of this title and for the
district in which it is located. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-8-4: NONCONFORMING USES:
When the applicable district regulations do not allow as a permitted use either
an existing use of part or all of a building or other structure, or an existing
use of land not involving a building or structure, such existing use may be
continued except as otherwise permitted by this chapter.
   A.   Change:
      1.   A nonconforming use of a building or other structure, all or
substantially all which was designed or intended for a use which is not
permitted in the district in which it is located, shall not be changed to any
use other than one permitted in the district in which the land is located. When
a nonconforming use has been changed to a permitted use, it shall not
thereafter be changed back to a nonconforming use.
      2.   The nonconforming use of land, not involving a building or
structure, or in connection with which any building or structure thereon is
incidental or accessory to the principal use of land, shall not be changed to
any other use, except to a use permitted in the district in which the land is
located.
      3.   A nonconforming use in effect at the time an amendatory ordinance
becomes effective shall be discontinued and not reestablished, except when the
provisions of the amendatory ordinance find the use to be conforming to the
district in which it is located.
   B.   Discontinuance: In the event that operation of a nonconforming use of
land, building or structure is discontinued for twelve (12) months, such a
nonconforming use shall not thereafter be reestablished, and any subsequent use
or occupancy of such land shall conform to the regulations of the district of
which it is located. Intent to resume active operation shall not affect the
foregoing restriction. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
      1.   Exception: Any kennel, legally in operation and properly registered
with the village prior to the adoption of this subsection is permitted to
remain by virtue of existing prior to the adoption of said subsection. If the
building becomes vacant, unoccupied or not used for a continuous period of one
hundred eighty (180) days, they shall not thereafter be occupied or used except
by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district in which they
are located. (Ord. 2011-02-04, 2-17-2011)
   C.   Nonconforming Accessory Uses: No nonconforming accessory use shall
continue after the principal use to which it is necessary has been abolished.
      1.   A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or extended beyond
the area it occupies, provided, however, in the case of a residential use in
the town center zoning district, a special use permit allowing such use or the
expansion thereof may be granted upon application pursuant to chapter 10 of
this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-8-5: REGISTRATION OF NONCONFORMING USES, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   The zoning official shall maintain a system of registration of all
nonconforming uses, buildings and structures.
      1.   Such registration system shall include a provision for notifying
owners:
         a.   That a particular use, lot size or standards governing a
building, structure or parcel of land does not conform to the regulations of
the zoning district in which the use, building or structure is located.
         b.   Of the status of a use, building or structure as a nonconformity.
         c.   Of the specific regulations applicable to such nonconforming use,
building or structure. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-8-6: EXISTING SPECIAL USES EXEMPT:
Where a use exists on the date that this title becomes effective and is
permitted by this title as a special use in the district in which it is
located, such use shall not be deemed a nonconforming use, but shall, without
any further action, be deemed a lawful special use in such district. However,
no such lawful special use shall be substantially expanded unless a
supplemental special use permit is secured in accordance with chapter 10 of
this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
CHAPTER 9
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Scope Of Regulations
10-9-3: General Parking And Loading Provisions
10-9-4: Off Street Parking Regulations And Requirements
10-9-5: Nonconforming Off Street Parking
10-9-6: Location Of Accessory Off Street Parking Facilities
10-9-7: Schedule Of Off Street Parking Requirements
10-9-8: Off Street Loading Regulations And Requirements
10-9-9: Schedule Of Off Street Loading Requirements
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to alleviate or prevent congestion on public
streets so as to promote the safety and welfare of the public user by
establishing minimum requirements for off street parking and loading spaces for
motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which property is put. (Ord. 2010-
04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-9-2: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The off street parking and loading provisions of this chapter shall apply as
follows:
   A.   Required Parking: For all buildings, structures and uses of, accessory
parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations
of the district in which such buildings or uses are located. However, where a
building permit has been issued prior to the effective date hereof, and
provided that construction is begun within one year of such effective date and
diligently prosecuted to completion, parking and loading facilities as required
hereinafter need not be provided.
   B.   Additional Parking: No building, structure or premises lawfully erected
or established prior to the effective date hereof shall be required to provide
additional parking or loading facilities unless and until such time as the
intensity of use of the building, structure or premises is increased through
addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other
criteria specified within section
10-9-7 of this chapter for measuring land use intensity for the purpose of
determining required parking or loading facilities. The number of additional
spaces and/or loading facilities required shall be calculated based solely on
the addition or expansion of floor area or other such criteria designated
herein for calculating required parking and loading spaces. The existing
building, structure, premises or use shall not be required to meet the required
number of parking and loading spaces calculated based on the combination of the
existing and additional criteria used for the calculation of required parking
and loading spaces until such time period as stipulated in subsection D of this
section.
   C.   New Use Requirements: Whenever the existing use of a building,
structure or portion thereof shall hereafter be changed to a new use, parking
or loading facilities shall be provided as required for such new use.
   D.   Paving Requirements: Unless required to be accomplished sooner by the
provisions in subsections A, B and C of this section, all parking and loading
facilities in use on and after March 28, 1985, shall be paved in accordance
with the requirements of subsection 10-9-4H2 of this chapter. With respect to
all other requirements of section
10-9-4 of this chapter, all off street parking and loading facilities in use on
March 28, 1995, shall, unless required to be brought into compliance sooner by
the other provisions of section
10-9-4 of this chapter, be brought into compliance with all other requirements
of said section
10-9-4 of this chapter no later than March 28, 2005.
   E.   Design And Construction Plan: Except for parking for single- family
dwelling units, detailed plans and other related documents setting forth the
proposed parking lot design and construction shall be submitted to the village
for approval prior to the village issuing the required permits. For permitted
uses, compliance to the standards of this chapter shall be reviewed and
approved by the code enforcement official, in consultation with other village
staff as deemed appropriate. For special uses, compliance to these standards
shall be reviewed by the plan commission and approved by the village board.
Variances from the standards of this chapter shall require a public hearing
before the zoning board of appeals and approval of the village board. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-9-3: GENERAL PARKING AND LOADING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Damage Or Destruction:
      1.   For any conforming or nonconforming building or structure or use
which is in existence on the effective date hereof, which is damaged or
destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or other cause, and which is
reconstructed, reestablished or repaired, off street parking or loading
facilities not less than that which existed at the time of such damage or
destruction shall be provided.
In no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain parking or loading
facilities in excess of those required by this title for equivalent new uses or
construction.
   B.   Off Site Parking Facilities: In cases where required off street parking
facilities are permitted on land other than the zoning lot on which the
building or use served is located, such facilities shall be in same ownership
or possession as the zoning lot occupied by the building or use to which the
parking facilities are accessory. Such ownership or possession may be either by
deed or long term lease, the term of such lease to be a minimum of thirty (30)
years. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-9-4: OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location Of Parking Facilities: Unless otherwise permitted in
subsection 10-9-3B or section
10-9-6 of this chapter, all required off street parking and loading facilities,
which serve a building, structure or land uses, which are erected, established,
altered, enlarged, or intensified after the effective date hereof, and all such
parking facilities which are established or increased voluntarily pursuant to
this title, shall be located on the same lot as the building, structure, or use
of land to be served.
   B.   Collective Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities for
separate buildings, structures or uses, or for mixed uses, may be provided
collectively in any zoning district in which separate parking facilities for
each constituent use may be permitted; provided, that the total number of
spaces so located together shall not be less than the sum of the separate
requirements for each use.
   C.   Yard Requirements: Off street parking requirements shall be located
within the buildable area of the zoning lot, unless specifically exempted by
the village board in accordance with this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
   D.   Access:
      1.   Placement: Each required off street parking space shall open
directly upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe
and efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off street
parking facilities shall be provided with appropriate means of vehicular access
to a street, alley or driveway in a manner which will least interfere with
traffic movements.
         a.   Pavement: A parking area containing four (4) or more parking
spaces shall have vehicular access to it over a street, alley or driveway
containing all weather, hard surfaced pavement and the location and route of
access to such a parking area shall be identified.
         b.   Dimensions: At no time shall a driveway across public property
have a width, exclusive of curb returns, exceeding twenty feet (20') in a
residence district or twenty four feet (24') in a nonresidence district, unless
specifically exempted by the village board in accordance with this title.
         c.   Driveway Setbacks: At no time shall a new driveway be constructed
in a drainage or public utility easement, or be constructed closer to a side
lot line than:
 
Lot Or Access Strip Width Minimum Setback
   Less than 75 feet   1 foot
   75 - 100 feet       3 feet
   100 feet and above  5 feet
 
(Ord. 2010-06-21, 6-17-2010)
   E.   Floor Area: For the purpose of determining off street parking and off
street loading requirements, floor area shall be calculated as the sum of the
gross horizontal area of the several floors of the building or buildings,
excluding:
      1.   Areas used for off street parking and loading facilities.
      2.   The horizontal areas of the basement and cellar floors that are
devoted exclusively to uses accessory to the operation of the entire building.
      3.   The horizontal areas of boiler and mechanical rooms used for
heating, ventilating and air conditioning, whether located on the roof or
within the building.
   F.   Computation Of Number Of Parking Spaces: When determination of the
number of off street parking spaces required herein results in a requirement of
a fractional space, any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded
while a fraction in excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking
space.
   G.   Size:
      1.   Dimensional Standards: All required off street parking spaces
(including handicapped spaces), loading berths and drive aisles (including
access aisles) shall meet the dimensional standards set forth in the off street
parking, loading berth and drive aisle chart located at the end of section
10-9-7 of this chapter, unless specifically exempted in accordance with this
title.
      2.   Compact Car Facilities: When there are practical difficulties, or
for due cause shown, or where the public safety or public convenience would be
better served, the zoning administrator, acting upon a specific application,
may authorize modifications as follows:
         a.   Compact car facilities, where allowed, shall be limited to ten
percent (10%) of the spaces required for the site and shall be provided only
for employee parking for office and industrial uses. No compact automobile
spaces shall be provided for health- medical uses. (Ord. 2008-3-11, 3-20-2008)
         b.   The minimum stall size for compact car facilities shall be not
less than seven and one-half feet (71/2') in width and not less than fifteen
feet (15') in depth.
         c.   All compact car facilities (areas) shall be appropriately marked
by signs designating those spaces "For Compact Cars Only".
         d.   No parking space in any accessory off street parking facility
containing less than fifty (50) parking spaces shall be sized or designated for
compact car parking.
      3.   Handicapped Parking: All uses except single-family detached or
single-family attached dwellings shall be required to provide off street
accessible parking spaces for handicapped persons pursuant to the "Illinois
accessibility code", as amended. The number of handicapped parking spaces shall
be included in the required total number of parking spaces. Such spaces shall
be identified as a handicapped parking space in accordance with the "Illinois
accessibility code", as amended (see off street parking, loading berth and
drive aisle chart at the end of section
10-9-7 of this chapter). Such spaces shall be located as close as possible to
the public access of the building or use for which the spaces are provided.
Handicapped parking spaces shall be connected to the permitted or special use
for which they are required. Where there is a discrepancy between the
handicapped parking space standards of the "Illinois accessibility code" and a
village, state or federal regulation related to such spaces, the more stringent
standards shall apply.
   H.   Design:
      1.   Open And Enclosed Parking Spaces: Accessory parking spaces may be
open to the sky or enclosed in a parking structure.
      2.   Surfacing: Unless otherwise approved by the village board, all open
off street parking, except for single-family parking, shall be improved with an
all weather surfaced pavement of adequate structural strength to support the
expected traffic volumes and loadings, and shall be designed in accordance with
applicable provisions of the Illinois department of transportation "Design
Manual" and title 11 of this code.
For parking areas primarily designed for passenger car parking with occasional
light truck traffic, the minimum pavement shall consist of a well compacted
aggregate (or equal) base course not less than eight inches (8") in thickness
constructed on a stable and compacted subgrade, and a bituminous concrete
surface not less than two inches (2") in thickness. Nonreinforced concrete
pavement of equivalent thickness but not less than five inches (5") will be
acceptable.
      3.   Curbing: All off street parking areas, except for single- family
parking, shall be provided with concrete wheel guards, bumper guards or
continuous curbs shall be so located that no part of any parked vehicle will
extend beyond the property line or encroach upon any adjacent sidewalk and/or
landscaped area(s).
      4.   Screening And Landscaping:
         a.   All open automobile parking areas containing more than four (4)
parking spaces shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting
on any property situated in a residence district or any institutional premises
by a wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge. Such required screening
shall conform with the front and side yard setback requirements of the district
in which the parking is located.
         b.   In all off street parking facilities open to the sky having a
paved area greater than ten thousand (10,000) square feet, a minimum of ten
percent (10%) of such area shall be landscaped to create visual relief. Such
landscaping shall be established to break (soften) the expanse of paving.
      5.   Lighting And Sound Control: Any lighting used to illuminate off
street parking areas shall be directed away from residential properties and
public streets in such a way as not to create a nuisance. However, in no case
shall such lighting exceed three (3) foot-candles measured at the lot line.
Loudspeaker systems are not permitted.
      6.   Drainage:
         a.   All open off street parking facilities shall be designed for
adequate drainage. The discharge of stormwater from said parking facilities
into existing public storm sewers, drains, streets, ditches, channels or any
other public drainageways shall be subject to the limitations and requirements
as set forth by the village or any other governmental agency having
jurisdictional control over said sewer or drainageway. The discharge of
stormwater onto adjacent private property or into privately owned drains will
not be permitted unless written approval is obtained from said private owner.
When deemed applicable by the village, on site stormwater detention and/or
retention shall be provided.
         b.   When off street parking facilities are located within designated
floodplain areas, planning, design and construction of said parking facilities
shall comply with applicable requirements of the village's floodplain control
regulations 1 .
      7.   Access Control And Signage:
         a.   Required Signs: For traffic control and safety, stop signs,
entrance and exit signs, and other required accessory signs shall be provided.
         b.   Pavement Marking: When required for traffic control and safety,
all parking stalls, aisles and access entrances and exits shall be marked on
the pavement surface with paint or an equivalent marking material.
      8.   Utilization Of Off Street Parking Areas:
         a.   No motor vehicle repair work of any kind shall be permitted in
parking lots. No gasoline or motor oil shall be sold in conjunction with any
accessory parking facilities unless such facilities are located within a
completely enclosed building, in which case gasoline and motor oil may be sold
within such building, and provided further that all gasoline pumps shall be
effectively screened from view of the street.
         b.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection H8c of this section,
off street parking facilities accessory to a residence use and developed in any
residence district shall be limited to parking of automobiles by occupants of
the residence to which such facilities are accessory or by guests of said
occupants only. Required parking for single-family detached and attached
dwellings shall include at least two (2) parking spaces, in accordance with
section
10-9-7 of this chapter and this section, one or both of which shall be located
within a driveway of at least nine feet (9') in width.
         c.   The adoption of this subsection H8c shall not grant
"grandfathered" status to nonconforming parking situations in existence at the
time of the enactment of this subsection H8c due to the threat that maintenance
of said practice poses to the protection of property values. Notwithstanding
the provisions of subsection H8b of this section, off street parking areas may
be utilized for the purposes listed hereinafter, but only in compliance with
the following conditions:
            (1)   Parking and storage of recreational vehicles, boats and
trailers; or recreational or utility trailers shall be permitted on
residentially zoned properties provided that:
               (A)   No more than one vehicle, which is a recreational vehicle,
boat and trailer; or recreational or utility trailer may be parked outdoors on
any residential lot; and
               (B)   The owner of such recreational vehicle, boat and trailer;
or recreational or utility trailer must be a permanent occupant of the
residential dwelling; and
               (C)   The recreational vehicle, boat and trailer; or
recreational or utility trailer shall be properly licensed to operate on the
public roads; and
               (D)   The recreational vehicle, boat and trailer; or
recreational or utility trailer shall be parked or stored on an improved
parking surface (i.e., concrete, asphalt or pavers) and shall not be in an area
on a lot which is five feet (5') from the rear property line, three feet (3')
from the side property line, in the front yard, or side yard adjoining a
street. The diagram below shows a typical lot and prohibited area - exhibit 1;
and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2183.gif]
               (E)   Parking or storage of a recreational vehicle, boat and
trailer; or recreational or utility trailer shall not be permitted within any
public utility or drainage easement; and
               (F)   Any boat stored or parked pursuant to the provisions of
this subsection shall be covered with a boat cover designed for such intended
purpose. Other types of covers, including, but not limited to, tarpaulins,
plastic covers, shall not be permitted.
               (G)   Any recreational or utility trailer stored or parked
pursuant to the provisions of this subsection shall be covered, and the method
of covering shall be securely tied to the trailer.
            (2)   No more than one recreational vehicle, boat and trailer; or
recreational or utility trailer owned by a permanent occupant of the
residential dwelling unit may be temporarily parked on an existing driveway on
the residential lot for a period not to exceed seven (7) consecutive days for
the purpose of unloading, loading, maintenance or repairs, provided that said
temporary parking or storage shall not exceed fourteen (14) calendar days
during any month.
            (3)   No more than one recreational vehicle, boat and trailer; or
recreational or utility trailer owned by a guest of the owner or permanent
occupant of the residential lot may be temporarily parked on an existing
driveway on the residential lot for a period not to exceed fourteen (14) days
in any six (6) consecutive month period.
            (4)   Parking of an "inoperable vehicle", as defined in title 6,
chapter 5, "Abandoned, Hazardous Or Unlawful Vehicles", of this code, or parts
thereof shall be within a secured enclosed structure.
            (5)   Operable motor vehicles shall only be parked in specifically
designed and developed off street parking areas in residential zoning districts
in accordance with this code.
            (6)   Parking commercial vehicles and/or commercial or construction
trailers and/or construction equipment anywhere on a residentially zoned lot is
prohibited, unless said equipment is being temporarily parked and used on site
for the duration of the construction activity associated with a project for
which the village has issued a permit.
            (7)   It is unlawful for any person to park any commercial vehicle
(other than a pickup truck, station wagon or similar vehicle of a size similar
to an ordinary passenger vehicle) and/or commercial or construction trailer
more than twelve (12) hours on any residentially zoned lot except:
               (A)   While loading or unloading property and time in addition
to such twelve (12) hour period is necessary to complete such work; or
               (B)   When such vehicle is parked in connection with, and in aid
of, the performance of a service to the property in which such vehicle is
parked and time in addition to such twelve (12) hour period is reasonably
necessary to complete such service.
      9.   Temporary Storage Of Cargo Containers, Temporary Membrane
Structures, Storage Tents And Temporary Storage Canopies: Cargo containers,
temporary membrane structures, storage tents and temporary storage canopies may
be placed on a private property subject to the following:
         a.   Such placement shall not exceed four (4) times, for a total of
thirty (30) days, in any calendar year. However, the village of Winfield
building inspector may extend said time to a maximum of one hundred twenty
(120) days, provided the cargo container, temporary membrane structure, storage
tent or temporary storage canopy is located on a property that has a valid
building permit for a major construction project and is used to store
construction equipment, construction materials, and/or relocated personal
possessions.
         b.   Cargo containers, temporary membrane structures, storage tents
and temporary storage canopies shall not be allowed in required interior side
or rear yard setbacks.
   I.   Special Use Permit: Any exception to subsection H8c(1)(D) of this
section shall require a special use permit approved by the village board
following the conduct of a public hearing and recommendation from the plan
commission.
      1.   Any special use permit granted shall only apply to the applicant and
not inure to the property and/or subsequent tenants and/or owners.
      2.   The request for a special use permit will include the following
information:
         a.   Letter requesting appeal, outlining the reasons justifying the
request;
         b.   The resident shall demonstrate that the lot configuration,
including the driveway and garage, does not allow the parking or storage of the
recreational vehicle, boat and trailer, and/or utility trailer to comply with
this section;
         c.   Evidence that resident is permanent occupant of residence. If
occupant is not the owner of the residence, written authorization by the owner
for the occupant to submit the request for appeal;
         d.   Evidence that resident is owner of the recreational vehicle, boat
and trailer, and/or utility trailer;
         e.   Plat of survey or equivalent scaled drawing, showing all
structures and improvements existing on the residential property;
         f.   Other information that demonstrates the reasons that the resident
believes the appeal should be approved.
      3.   The application fee for a special use permit for this section is one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), which is nonrefundable. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 12 of this code.
10-9-5: NONCONFORMING OFF STREET PARKING:
Off street parking lots in existence on March 28, 1985, which do not comply
with the provisions in section
10-9-4 of this chapter must be brought into compliance within ten (10) years
after March 28, 1985. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-9-6: LOCATION OF ACCESSORY OFF STREET PARKING FACILITIES:
   A.   Accessory Facilities Lot Location: Parking spaces accessory to
dwellings shall be located on the same zoning lot as the use served. Spaces
accessory to uses other than dwellings may be located on a lot adjacent to, or
directly across a street or alley from the lot occupied by the use served, but
in no case at a distance in excess of three hundred feet (300') from such use.
   B.   For Use In Town Center, Business And Industrial Districts: All required
parking spaces shall be within one thousand feet (1,000') of the use served,
except for spaces accessory to dwelling units which shall be within three
hundred feet (300') of the use served. However, no parking spaces accessory to
a use in a business or industrial district shall be located in a residence
district; except, that private, free, off street parking accessory to such uses
and municipal parking lots may be allowed by special use permit in accordance
with chapter 10 of this title within two hundred feet (200') of and adjacent to
any business or industrial district. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-9-7: SCHEDULE OF OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
A. Residential uses, as follows:  
A. Residential uses, as follows:            
  Multiple-family dwellings (includ-ing   
   apartment hotels):
   1 and 2 bedroom units                2 parking spaces for each dwelling
                                           unit
                                           3 parking spaces for each dwelling
                                           unit and 1 additional parking space
                                           for each multiple-family dwelling
   3 or more bedroom units              unit within the building for guest
                                           parking, plus 1 parking space for
                                           each owner or manager and each
                                           employee
                                           2 parking spaces for each dwelling
                                           unit; except, that in the case of
                                           lots of record existing prior to
                                           February 13, 1986, which are no more
                                           than 60 feet in width and located in
                                           an R-5 district with respect to
   Single-family detached and attached     single-family attached dwellings
  dwellings                              only, the driveway may be considered
                                           as providing 1 of the required
                                           parking spaces per dwelling unit. No
                                           dwelling shall be added to or
                                           remodeled if such addition or
                                           remodeling will decrease the
                                           existing off street parking spaces
                                           required herein
B. Business commercial uses, as follows:    
                                           1 parking space for each 2
   Automobile laundry self-service or      employees, plus 1 parking space per
  roll over                              each manager, plus 2 stacking spaces
                                           per each washing bay at the entrance
                                           to each manual car wash bay
  Automobile service station             1 parking space for each 2 employees
                                           Same requirements for the applicable
                                           dwelling unit type based on the
  Bed and breakfasts                     residence district in which it is
                                           located, plus 1 parking space for
                                           each designated guest or sleeping
                                           room or suite
                                           5 parking spaces for each alley,
                                           plus such additional spaces as may
  Bowling alleys                         be required herein for affiliated
                                           uses - bars, restaurants and the
                                           like
  Drive-in banks or other drive-in       7 stacking spaces per drive-through
   establishments                          unit
   Furniture and appliance stores,         1 parking space for each 600 sq. ft.
  household equipment or furniture       of gross floor area, plus 1 parking
   repair shops                            space for each employee
                                           1 parking space for each 1 occupancy
                                           unit, plus 1 space for each 2
  Hotels                                 employees on the largest shift, plus
                                           additional required spaces for
                                           dining, lounge, retail space and any
                                           other compatible permitted uses
                                           1 parking space for each lodging
  Lodging, rooming and boarding houses   room, plus 1 space for the owner or
                                           manager and employee
   Manufacturing uses or any               1 parking space for each 2
   establishments in production,           employees, plus 1 space for each
  processing, cleaning, servicing,       vehicle used in the conduct of the
   testing or repair of materials, goods   enterprise
   or products
  Medical or dental clinics or offices   5 parking spaces per each 1,000 sq.
                                           ft. of gross floor area
                                           1 parking space for each guest or
                                           sleeping room or suite, plus 1
  Motels, inns and auto courts           additional space for the owner or
                                           manager and 1 space for each 2
                                           employees for the largest shift
  Motor vehicle sales and machinery      1 parking space for each 300 sq. ft.
   sales                                   of floor area
   Offices: business, professional,        3.3 parking spaces per each 1,000
  excluding medical or dental, and       sq. ft. of gross floor area
   governmental
                                           2 parking spaces for each lodging
                                           room plus parking spaces equal in
  Private clubs and lodges (with         number to 10% of the capacity in
   sleeping facilities and guests)         persons (exclusive of lodging room
                                           capacity) of such club or lodge plus
                                           1 parking space for each employee
   Restaurants - all types (the
   following requirements may be made
   more or less restrictive by no more
  than 25% of the required total by the   
   board of trustees upon the
   recommendation of the plan
   commission):
   Carryout (no seating)                6 parking spaces per 1,000 sq. ft.
                                           of gross floor area
                                           13 parking spaces per 1,000 sq. ft.
                                           of gross floor area; 15 parking
   Sit down                             spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross
                                           floor area for restaurants with live
                                           entertainment and/or an incidental
                                           bar component
  Retail stores and banks                1 parking space for each 200 sq. ft.
                                           of floor area
  Theaters (indoors)/nonrestaurant live  1 parking space for 3 seats in the
   entertainment                           theater
                                           1 parking space per each 2
  Tunnel with conveyor                   employees, plus 1 parking space per
                                           each manager, plus 15 parking spaces
                                           10 parking spaces for each chapel or
  Undertaking establishments, funeral    parlor, plus 1 parking space for
   parlors                                 each funeral vehicle maintained on
                                           the premises
                                           1 parking space for each 2
  Warehouses and storage buildings       employees, plus 1 space for each
                                           vehicle used in the conduct of the
                                           enterprise
   Wholesale establishments (but not       1 parking space for each 600 sq. ft.
  including warehouses and storage       of gross floor area in excess of
   buildings other than accessory)         4,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
C. Community service uses, as follows:      
                                           1 parking space for each 3
                                           auditorium seats. Adequate space
                                           shall also be provided for buses
                                           used in connection with the
   Church, school, college and other       activities of the institution, and
  institutional auditoriums              all loading and unloading of
                                           passengers shall take place upon the
                                           premises unless otherwise
                                           recommended by the plan commission
                                           and approved by the village board of
                                           trustees
                                           5 parking spaces for each staff and
  Health centers, government operated    visiting doctor, plus 1 parking
                                           space for each employee
                                           1 parking space for each 2 hospital
                                           beds, plus 1 parking space for each
  Hospitals                              2 employees (other than staff
                                           doctors), plus 1 parking space for
                                           each doctor assigned to the staff
  Libraries, art galleries and museums;  2 parking spaces for each 1,000 sq.
   public                                  ft. of gross floor area
   Public utility and other public         1 parking space for each 3
  service uses (as listed within the     employees, plus spaces adequate in
   residence districts, excluding          number, as determined by the zoning
   libraries)                              administrator, to service the public
                                           2 parking spaces for each 1,000 sq.
                                           ft. of gross floor area. For outside
   Recreation facilities, community        facilities, parking space
  centers                                requirements shall be determined by
                                           the village board upon
                                           recommendation of the plan
                                           commission
  Schools:                                
                                           1 parking space for each 3
     Colleges, universities and            employees, and 1 parking space for
   business, professional and trade     each 4 students based on the maximum
     schools                               number of students attending classes
                                           on the premises at any 1 time during
                                           any 24 hour period
                                           1 parking space for each faculty
                                           member and each full time employee,
   Elementary and junior high           plus 1 parking space for each 15
                                           students based on the design
                                           capacity
                                           1 parking space for each faculty
                                           member and each full time employee,
   High schools                         plus 1 parking space for each 5
                                           students based on the design
                                           capacity of the facility
D. Places of assembly, as follows:          
   Stadiums, arenas, auditoriums (other
   than church, college or institutional   Parking spaces equal in number to
  schools), convention halls, dance      25% of the capacity in persons shall
   halls, exhibition halls, skating        be provided
   rinks and other similar places of
   assembly
E. Miscellaneous uses, as follows:          
   Fraternities, sororities and            1 parking space for each 5 active
  dormitories                            members, plus 1 parking space for
                                           the manager thereof
  Group care homes                       1 parking space per 800 sq. ft. of
                                           gross floor area
                                           Parking space requirements shall be
  Home business offices                  determined by the village board upon
                                           recommendation of the plan
                                           commission
  Home daycare facilities                1 parking space per 800 sq. ft. of
                                           gross floor area
                                           1 parking space for each staff
   Institutions for the care of the        doctor, plus spaces adequate in
  insane or retarded                     number, as determined by the zoning
                                           administrator, to service the
                                           visiting public
                                           When 2 or more uses are located on
                                           the same zoning lot within the same
                                           buildings, parking spaces equal in
                                           number to the sum of the separate
                                           requirements for each such use shall
  Mixed uses                             be provided. No parking spaces or
                                           portion thereof shall serve as a
                                           required space for more than 1 use
                                           unless otherwise authorized by the
                                           village board of trustees after due
                                           consideration by the plan commission
                                           1 parking space for each teacher and
                                           employee, plus 1 parking space for
                                           each 10 students for joint parking.
                                           Stacking spaces shall be provided
                                           off the public right of way for not
   Nursery schools and business daycare    less than 10 vehicles for pick up
  facilities                             and/or drop off of students.
                                           Additional off street parking and
                                           vehicle stacking spaces may be
                                           approved by the village board upon
                                           recommendation by the plan
                                           commission, based on the design of
                                           the facility
  Private clubs and lodges (without      2 parking spaces per 1,000 sq. ft.
   sleeping facilities for guests)         of gross floor area
                                           1 parking space for each 4 beds,
                                           plus 1 parking space for each 2
  Rest homes and nursing homes           employees (other than staff
                                           doctors), plus 1 parking space for
                                           each doctor assigned to the staff
                                           1 parking space for each 4 beds,
   Sanatoriums, convalescent homes or      plus 1 parking space for each 2
  institutions for the aged or for       employees (other than staff
   children                                doctors), plus 1 parking space for
                                           each doctor assigned to the staff
                                           Parking spaces for other permitted
                                           uses not listed above shall be
                                           provided in accordance with
  Other uses                             requirements designated by the code
                                           enforcement officer and in the case
                                           of special uses as recommended by
                                           the plan commission and required by
                                           the president and board of trustees
 
   OFF STREET PARKING CHART
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2185.gif]
   TABLE OF DIMENSIONS
 
              Degree Of Stall Width Stall Depth Parking     Drive Aisle
Parking Type  Angle     (A)         (B)         Aisle Depth Width
                                                (C)         (D)
Parallel      0°       9'          22'         9'          12'
Angled        30°      9'          18'         16.8'       12'
              45°      9'          18'         19.1'       12'
              60°      9'          18'         20'         16'
Perpendicular 90°      9'          18'         18'         24'
 
(Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-9-8: OFF STREET LOADING REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
Any building or structure which is to be erected or substantially altered and
which requires the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by
trucks or similar vehicles, shall be provided off street loading berths not
less than the minimum requirements specified in this section.
   A.   Location Of Off Street Loading Facilities: All required loading
facilities shall be located on the same zoning lot as the use served.
      1.   Access: Each required off street loading berth shall be designed
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner
which shall least interfere with traffic movements, and shall be subject to
approval of the code enforcement officer of the village.
   B.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   No loading berth for vehicles over two (2) tons' capacity shall be
closer than fifty feet (50') to any property in a residence district unless
completely enclosed by building walls, or a uniformly solid fence or wall, or
any combination thereof, not less than six feet (6') in height. No permitted or
required loading berth shall be located in any required front or side yard. No
permitted or required loading berth shall be located within twenty five feet
(25') of the nearest point of intersection of any two (2) streets.
   C.   Floor Area: For the purpose of determining off street loading
requirements, floor area shall be calculated as defined for off street parking,
subsection 10-9-4E of this chapter.
   D.   Computation:
      1.   The total number of off street parking spaces required for any
building, structure or use shall be based upon standards set forth in section
10-9-9 of this chapter.
      2.   For special uses other than prescribed for hereinafter, loading
berths adequate in number and size to serve such uses, as determined by the
president and board of trustees, shall be provided.
   E.   Design:
      1.   Surfacing: Unless otherwise approved by the village board, all open
off street loading shall have compacted aggregate (or equal) base course not
less than eight inches (8") thick constructed on a stable and compacted
subgrade, and shall be surfaced with a bituminous concrete not less than two
inches (2") thick.
      2.   Curbing: All loading areas shall be improved with concrete curbing,
as approved by the village engineer.
   F.   Screening And Landscaping:
      1.   For Unenclosed Areas: Landscape screening shall be provided for all
unenclosed loading areas that are adjacent to a residential or institutional
use, or are visible from a public right of way according to subsection 10-2-6B5
of this title.
      2.   Maintenance: Landscaping shall be permanently maintained in good
condition with at least the same quality of landscaping as initially installed.
   G.   Accessory Signs: Accessory signs for loading facilities shall be
subject to review and approval by the village board.
   H.   Utilization:
      1.   Loading Berth: Space allowed to any off street loading berth shall
not, when so allowed, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
      2.   Repair And Service: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any
district.
   I.   Minimum Facilities:
      1.   A required off street loading berth shall be at least ten feet (10')
in width by at least fifty feet (50') in length, exclusive of aisle and
maneuvering space, and shall have vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet
(14').
      2.   Buildings, structures, or uses which require off street loading
facilities but which have less floor area than the minimum prescribed for such
required facilities, shall be provided with adequate receiving facilities off
any adjacent alley, service drive or open space on the same lot which is
accessible by motor vehicle. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-9-9: SCHEDULE OF OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
For the land uses listed, loading berths shall be provided as specified below:
   A.   Auditoriums, banks, business and professional offices, public
administration buildings, bowling alleys, hospitals, schools, colleges,
sanatoriums, and other similar instructional uses, hotels or private clubs and
lodges:
 
For such building containing 100,000 sq. ft. of
floor area or fraction thereof in such a building.
For operations involving few deliveries and small
vehicles (class B or below), the village board,     1 loading berth
upon recommendation from the plan commission, may
waive this requirement without a zoning variance
requirement
For each additional 100,000 sq. ft. or fraction     1 additional loading berth
thereof in such a building
 
   B.   Warehousing, storing, cleaning, servicing, testing and repairing
establishments:
 
For such a building containing:                  
 5,000 to 40,000 sq. ft. of floor area         1 loading berth
 40,000 to 100,000 sq. ft. of floor area       2 loading berths
 Plus, for each additional 100,000 sq. ft. of  1 additional loading berth
  floor area or fraction thereof
 
   C.   Establishments engaged in retail or wholesale trade and establishments
handling the sale and consumption of food on the premises, loading berths in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
Square Feet Of Floor Area Minimum Number
   5,000 to 10,000     1
   10,001 to 15,000    2
   15,001 to 25,000    2
   25,001 to 40,000    3
   40,001 to 100,000   4
For each additional 100,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof in
such a building, 1 additional loading berth
 
   D.   Other uses: Off street loading berths shall be provided in accordance
with requirements determined by the board of trustees based upon requirements
heretofore set forth for the most similar uses. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
CHAPTER 10
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose
10-10-2: Existing Special Uses
10-10-3: Authorization
10-10-4: Procedure For Granting Special Use
10-10-5: Effect Of Denial Of Special Use
10-10-6: Repeal And Revocation Of Special Use
10-10-1: PURPOSE:
To provide for the location of certain uses herein specified which are deemed
desirable for the public welfare within a given district or districts, but
which might have an adverse effect upon nearby properties or upon the character
and future development of the district in which they are located, a
classification of special uses is hereby established. Procedures for special
uses are set forth in this chapter.
The development and execution of this title is based upon the division of the
village into districts, within any one of which the use of land and buildings
and structures, as related to the land, are essentially uniform. It is
recognized, however, that there are special uses which, because of their unique
character, cannot be properly classified in any particular district or
districts without consideration in each case of the impact of those uses upon
neighboring lands and upon the public need for the particular use at the
particular location. Such special uses fall into two (2) categories:
   A.   Uses operated by a public agency or publicly regulated utilities or
uses traditionally affected with a public interest.
   B.   Uses entirely private in character but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-10-2: EXISTING SPECIAL USES:
Where a use exists on the effective date hereof and it is classified as a
special use by this title, it shall be considered to be a lawful special use.
Any and all additions or alterations to existing buildings or land improvements
or expansion of lawful special uses within the area of the lot included in the
ownership existing at the time of the effective date hereof shall require a new
special use permit. Any issuance of said permit shall require recommendation of
the plan commission and approval of the village board with said use subject to
yard, floor area ratio and building height requirements set forth in this title
for permitted uses in the districts in which they are located, as well as any
additional standards approved by the village board to mitigate potential land
use conflicts. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-10-3: AUTHORIZATION:
Special uses shall be authorized or denied by the president and board of
trustees in accordance with the Illinois Compiled Statutes and the regulations
and conditions set forth in this title for special uses. No application for a
special use shall be acted upon by the president and board of trustees until
after a public hearing before the plan commission and a written report of its
findings and recommendations has been submitted to the village board of
trustees. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-10-4: PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING SPECIAL USE:
   A.   Initiation Of Special Use: Special uses may be proposed by anyone with
a proprietary interest in the subject property.
   B.   Application And Processing: An application for a special use shall be
filed with the zoning administrator on a form provided, accompanied by such
information as prescribed. The application shall include, at a minimum:
      1.   Legal description and common address of subject property;
      2.   Current plat of survey locating lot lines and all existing
structures;
      3.   Existing zoning on subject property and within one hundred feet
(100');
      4.   Proposed zoning and land use;
      5.   Ownership or disclosure of beneficial interest;
      6.   Site plan as hereinafter discussed under subsection 10-10A-6C4b of
this chapter;
      7.   Tree survey and preservation plan as hereinafter discussed under
subsection 10-10A-6C4d of this chapter;
      8.   Written statement addressing anticipated adverse impacts to adjacent
properties including, but not limited to, increased traffic and noise, blockage
of views, and increased lighting; and
      9.   Other information as may be required by the plan commission to make
a recommendation on the request.
   C.   Public Hearing: A public hearing shall be required and conducted in
accordance with section
10-11-6 of this title.
   D.   Findings Of Fact And Recommendations By Plan Commission:
      1.   The plan commission shall make findings based upon the evidence
presented to it in each specific case with respect to the following:
         a.   Compatibility with surrounding land uses and the general area;
         b.   The zoning classification of property within the general area of
the property in question;
         c.   The suitability of the subject property to the uses permitted
under the existing zoning classification;
         d.   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
subject property including recent changes, if any, which have taken place in
its zoning classification; and
         e.   The relationship of the existing zoning classification to the
comprehensive plan of the village 1 .
      2.   The plan commission shall not recommend the approval of a proposed
special use unless it finds that:
         a.   The approval of such special use is in the public interest and
not solely for the interest of the applicant;
         b.   The proposed use at the particular location requested is
necessary or desirable to provide a service or a facility which is in the
interest of public convenience and will contribute to the general welfare of
the neighborhood or community;
         c.   Such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular
case, be detrimental to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of
persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property values or
improvements in the vicinity; and
         d.   The proposed use will comply with the regulations and conditions
specified in this title for such use, and with the stipulations and conditions
made a part of the authorization granted by the village board of trustees.
   E.   Conditions Of Special Uses: Prior to granting any special use permit,
the plan commission may recommend and the village board may approve such
conditions and restrictions upon the establishment, construction, location,
maintenance and operation of a special use, including, but not limited to,
provisions for off street parking and loading, landscaping, screening and yard
requirements, as may be deemed necessary for the protection of existing and
permitted uses within the applicable district and the promotion of the general
objectives of this title. Such required conditions and restrictions shall be
included within any approved special use permit ordinance and failure to comply
with the requirements incorporated therein shall result in the revocation of
said special use permit.
   F.   Action By The Village Board:
      1.   The village board shall not act upon a proposed special use until it
shall have received a written report and recommendation from the plan
commission on the proposed special use.
      2.   The village board may grant or deny an application for a special
use; provided, however, that in case of a written protest against any proposed
special use signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of
the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%)
of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage
proposed to be altered, is filed with the clerk of the village, the special use
shall not be passed, except by a favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the
trustees then holding office.
      3.   If an application for a proposed special use is not acted upon
finally by the village board within ninety (90) days of the date the board
receives the plan commissions' recommendations and such time is not extended by
mutual consent of the village board and petitioner, it shall be deemed to have
been denied. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-2-6 of this code.
10-10-5: EFFECT OF DENIAL OF SPECIAL USE:
No application for special use that has been denied by the village board shall
be resubmitted for the same site for a period of one year from the date of the
order of denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or proof of change of
condition found to be valid by the plan commission and the village board. (Ord.
2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-10-6: REPEAL AND REVOCATION OF SPECIAL USE:
   A.   Repeal For Inactivity: In any case where a special use has been
granted, it shall be an express condition of the ordinance granting the special
use that, in the event the special use has not been implemented within one year
following the date of the ordinance, the special use shall automatically be
rendered null, void and of no further force or effect and that no further
action by the village board shall be necessary to effectuate such
nullification. As used herein, the term "implemented" shall mean that: 1) an
occupancy permit has been issued, or 2) a building permit has been issued and
the applicant is diligently proceeding with the construction of the improvement
permitted by such special use.
However, the village board, upon proper application may consider an extension
of the one year time frame, such extension not to exceed one additional year,
for good cause shown.
   B.   Procedure For Revocation Of A Special Use Permit For Cause:
      1.   Revocation proceedings may be initiated by the village manager or
his designee, or the village board.
      2.   Unless the permit holder and the landowner agree in writing that the
permit may be revoked, the plan commission shall hold a public hearing to
consider and recommend the revocation of the special use permit to the village
board.
      3.   The village shall give the permit holder and landowner notice of the
scheduled revocation hearing at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date
scheduled for such hearing by certified mail, return receipt requested and by
posting a letter of notice of hearing on the property at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the date scheduled for the hearing.
      4.   The public hearing shall be conducted in accordance with rules of
procedure established by the village board. At the conclusion of the public
hearing, the plan commission shall forward a recommendation to the village
board to either affirm or deny revocation of the special use permit. The
recommendation regarding revocation of the special use permit is exempt from
subsection 1-5-5B3a of this code. The village board shall take final action
regarding the revocation of the special use permit within thirty (30) days of
the recommendation of the plan commission.
      5.   No special use permit shall be revoked unless a majority of the
village board is satisfied by a preponderance of the evidence that grounds for
revocation exist. Any motion for the revocation of a special use permit shall
clearly state the grounds for revocation. (Ord. 2016-06-15, 6-2-2016)
ARTICLE A. PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-10A-1: Purpose
10-10A-2: Special Use
10-10A-3: Permitted Uses And Criteria
10-10A-4: General Provisions
10-10A-5: Residential Standards
10-10A-6: Application And Approval
10-10A-7: Changes In The Planned Development
10-10A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of the planned development provisions that follow is to
promote efficient land patterns that preserve natural resources, provide public
amenities, and secure large parcels of permanent open space that will implement
the concepts incorporated within the Winfield comprehensive development plan.
   B.   These provisions are intended to encourage and accommodate more
creative and imaginative design for land development than would otherwise be
possible under the strict application of Winfield's conventional zoning and
land subdivision ordinance provisions.
   C.   It is the purpose of this article that the land use patterns which
result from these standards will:
      1.   Foster quality development by allowing flexibility in land use and
design standards, thereby encouraging innovative site planning;
      2.   Promote more efficient land patterns, in keeping with the Winfield
comprehensive development plan, that not only preserve open space and natural
resources, but also provide for more economical networks of utilities, streets
and other facilities;
      3.   Promote high quality residential environments that include a
diversity of dwelling unit types;
      4.   Promote a land use pattern comprised of residential and
nonresidential uses that mutually support each other;
      5.   Provide for the permanent preservation of open space for the
continued use and enjoyment of the residents of each subdivision;
      6.   Provide for usable and suitably located public and private
recreational facilities;
      7.   Encourage developers to provide amenities that enhance the quality
of life, both within the planned development, as well as within the community
as a whole;
      8.   Encourage a land use pattern that promotes the public health,
safety, comfort, morals and welfare; and
      9.   Allow more than one principal building per zoning lot without
necessarily requiring processing as a zoning variance or a subdivision when the
above purposes can be achieved more efficiently through the planned development
process. (Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999)
10-10A-2: SPECIAL USE:
   A.   Planned developments are of such substantially different character from
conventional subdivisions or development on individual zoning lots that they
require administrative processing as a special use, under the provisions of
this article. The special use for a planned development shall be approved in
conjunction with the ordinance approving the preliminary plan.
   B.   Because planned developments are complex and of a different character
than other special uses, the village has established more specific procedures,
standards, and criteria for exceptions from the standards of the underlying
zoning districts. The procedures, standards and criteria for exceptions that
follow are intended to guide the recommendations of the village board during
their review of preliminary and final plans. (Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999)
10-10A-3: PERMITTED USES AND CRITERIA:
Planned developments may include uses and structures not otherwise permitted in
the underlying zoning district, provided landscape screening is employed
between dissimilar land uses, and the petitioner shows that the planned
development accomplishes the standards set forth in this article, achieves the
planning goals and objectives of the village (as defined within the Winfield
comprehensive development plan) and is compatible with adjacent land uses.
   A.   Residential Planned Developments:
      1.   A residential planned development may be processed for a single type
of dwelling unit, but is intended to allow a mixture of dwelling unit types,
thereby offering a choice in lifestyle to residents of the development.
Nonresidential land uses of a religious, institutional, cultural, recreational,
office or commercial character may be permitted in a residential planned
development, to the extent that they can be integrated with the residential
land use. Where provided, nonresidential uses in a residential planned
development shall:
         a.   Not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the total developable
acreage of the development, excluding lakes, streams, floodplains, wetlands and
other natural features that will be set aside as "open space", as defined by
this title.
         b.   Be compatible in appearance and scale with the residential
structures.
      2.   Residential developments may be processed as planned developments
when any of the following apply:
         a.   More than one dwelling unit type (for example, single-family
detached and apartments) is proposed. For the purpose of this article,
"dwelling unit type" shall mean:
            (1)   Single-family detached.
            (2)   Single-family attached.
            (3)   Two-family, or duplex.
            (4)   Patio house.
            (5)   Townhome.
            (6)   Quadraplex (4 units).
            (7)   Apartment, low rise.
         b.   More than one principal building is proposed on a zoning lot.
         c.   More than one land use is proposed for the development.
         d.   A cluster subdivision, or zero lot line arrangement, is proposed.
         e.   A multiple-family development, consisting of three (3) or more
acres is proposed.
         f.   A multiple-family development is proposed within an R-6 district
adjacent to the TC town center district.
      3.   A residential development area is designated by the adopted Winfield
comprehensive development plan to be processed as a planned development.
      4.   Residential planned developments shall meet the standards of
chapters 2 and 4 of this title, unless specifically exempted in accordance with
the provisions of this article.
   B.   Commercial Planned Developments:
      1.   A commercial planned development may include any of the permitted or
special uses listed as permitted or special uses within the TC town center, B-
1 general business and B-2 general services districts.
      2.   Commercial developments may be processed as planned developments
when any of the following apply:
         a.   More than one building is proposed on a zoning lot.
         b.   A commercial development exceeds three (3) acres in area, and
includes more than one type of business use, such as retail, office and/or
service uses.
         c.   A commercial development includes residential dwelling units.
         d.   A commercial development area is designated by the adopted
Winfield comprehensive development plan to be processed as a planned
development.
      3.   Commercial planned developments shall meet the standards of chapters
2 and 5 of this title, unless specifically exempted in accordance with the
provisions of this article.
   C.   Industrial Planned Developments:
      1.   An industrial planned development may include any use permitted
within the L-1 industrial district, exclusive of any type of residential
dwelling unit.
      2.   A proposed industrial development may be processed as a planned
development when any of the following apply:
         a.   The development consists of ten (10) or more acres.
         b.   More than one building is proposed on a zoning lot.
         c.   The planned development includes other commercial or support
services that warrant special consideration by the board to assure that
potential hazards associated with dissimilar land uses are minimized and
involve an acceptable level of potential conflict.
         d.   An industrial development area is designated by the adopted
Winfield comprehensive development plan to be processed as a planned
development.
      3.   Industrial planned developments shall meet the standards of chapters
2 and 7, and chapter 7, article A of this title, unless specifically exempted
in accordance with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999)
   D.   Roosevelt And Winfield Road Corridor - Planned Development (RW-PD)
District:
      1.   General Objectives: Overall land use and design objectives for
development within Roosevelt and Winfield Road corridor - planned development
district (RW-PD) include:
         a.   Stores, restaurants, open space, and workplaces should be located
in close proximity to each other to create an integrated development that is
pedestrian oriented. Single lot, single use developments shall be discouraged.
         b.   Open space shall be incorporated into each development within the
RW-PD to provide opportunities for conservation of natural resources,
alternative methods to stormwater management, and attractive pathways and
gathering places.
         c.   New development shall respect the residential character of nearby
areas through establishment of transitional zones, adequate setbacks, landscape
buffer areas, minimum lighting levels, and screening between such residential
areas and incompatible uses.
         d.   Future road access points should be minimized and coordinated
with existing and planned streets as shown in the village's comprehensive plan.
         e.   The opportunity for cut-through traffic in residential areas
should be prohibited where feasible.
         f.   The identity and image of the Roosevelt and Winfield Road
corridors should be enhanced with landscaping, streetscape elements, and
infrastructure improvements.
      2.   General Design Standards Applicable To All Uses:
         a.   Land Use Allocation: All land uses shall conform to the intent of
the village of Winfield comprehensive plan, as amended. The standards below
shall serve as guidelines in the review of a specific project.
            (1)   Any development within the RW-PD district should reserve and
maintain thirty percent (30%) of the total site area for open space. Any area
designed with pervious pavers or other pavement system that allows for water
infiltration as approved by the village, shall be included in the open space
standard. This open space should include preservation of wetlands and other
high quality natural areas through conservation and relocation to extent
practical to achieve the overall development goal of the RW-PD district.
            (2)   The balance of the land within the RW-PD district should
consist of a mix of nonresidential uses that conforms to the intent of the
comprehensive plan.
            (3)   The percent of nonretail uses should be limited to no more
than twenty percent (20%) of the total commercial square footage. (Ord. 2015-
01-01, 1-15-2015)
         b.   Minimum Development Size: No single development shall be
permitted on a site less than seven (7) acres, except where the development is
a component of an approved planned development project that is equal to, or
greater than seven (7) acres in total. (Ord. 2015-05-18, 5-21-2015)
         c.   Building Height: Maximum height limitations shall be specified
with the granting of an RW-PD special use permit and shall be consistent with
the recommendations of the village's comprehensive plan for the Roosevelt and
Winfield Road key development area.
         d.   Building Setbacks:
            (1)   Buildings adjacent to an arterial street: One hundred foot
(100') minimum required for all uses along Roosevelt and Winfield Roads. If
there is no parking or drive aisle between the building and such road, the
building setback may be reduced to fifty feet (50').
               (A)   Seventy five foot (75') minimum required for all uses
along other public roads when facing or directly across the street from a
residential use. If there is no parking or drive aisle between the building and
such road, the building setback may be reduced to thirty five feet (35').
               (B)   Fifty foot (50') minimum required for all uses along other
public roads when facing or directly across the street from a nonresidential
use. If there is no parking or drive aisle between the building and such road,
the building setback may be reduced to twenty feet (20').
            (2)   Buildings not adjacent to a public street (internal
setbacks): No minimum requirement. All setbacks between buildings not adjacent
to a public street shall be determined by the plan commission on the basis of
the merits of the proposed planned development.
            (3)   Buildings adjacent to residential uses: One hundred foot
(100') minimum required building setback for all nonresidential uses that are
adjacent to an existing or planned residential use. Parking or drive aisles
shall not be permitted in the one hundred foot (100') setback area.
            (4)   In all other instances the yard setbacks shall be established
as part of the planned development special use permit.
   BUILDING SETBACKS
 
             Street Type And Adjacent Use
                           Collector Or
             Arterial Road Local Public Road          Private Road  Residential
                           Residential Nonresidential (Internal)    Use
                           Use         Use
Minimum                                               To be
setback      100 feet      75 feet     50 feet        determined by 100 feet
                                                      village
Minimum
setback with
no parking                                            To be
or drive     50 feet       35 feet     20 feet        determined by 100 feet
aisle in                                              village
front of
building
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2188.gif]
         e.   Access And Circulation:
            (1)   Sidewalks: A sidewalk at least five feet (5') in width shall
be provided adjacent to all public and private streets, and buildings, and
shall be protected from travel lanes with bollards, raised plant beds/seat
walls, or other similar streetscape element, unless otherwise provided in the
planned development special use permit ordinance.
            (2)   Bike And Pedestrian Paths:
               (A)   A system of pedestrian and bicycle trails shall be
incorporated into the design of all developments within the RW-PD district. All
developments within the RW-PD district shall be required to coordinate
connection points between existing and proposed trails on adjoining private or
public properties in order to further the village's objective to create a
unified trail system.
               (B)   All commercial parking lots or other outdoor spaces such
as plazas, courtyards, squares and gardens shall be provided with pedestrian
circulation systems, such as sidewalks, paths, and marked crosswalks. These
systems shall connect all portions of the site to each of the establishments.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2190.gif]
            (3)   Bike Storage:
               (A)   For off street automobile parking facilities of twenty
(20) spaces or more, bicycle parking spaces shall be equal to five percent (5%)
of the required number of automobile parking spaces.
               (B)   Bicycle parking shall be located in safe and convenient
locations near the primary building entrance.
            (4)   Site Access:
               (A)   Access points into developments within the RW-PD district
should be minimized and be aligned with existing public and private roads. Any
required improvements to adjacent roads will be the responsibility of the
developer, as may be recommended by the village traffic planning or engineering
consultant, or by other governmental agencies having jurisdiction over such
roads, in response to a traffic study required for the project(s). Required
road improvements shall be set forth in the planned development special use
permit ordinance.
               (B)   When appropriate cross access easements and the use of
shared curb cuts are required between development sites.
            (5)   Parking Areas:
               (A)   Concrete curbs shall be provided around the perimeters of
all off street parking lots, and all internal private roads.
               (B)   The use of permeable paving systems or other innovative
stormwater management systems is encouraged.
         f.   Landscaping, Buffering, And Screening:
            (1)   Minimum Size Of Plant Materials: The intent of these
standards is to ensure that vegetation when installed has a mature appearance
and more immediate effect in buffering adjacent nonresidential uses, while
improving the overall appearance and quality of each development. Trees and
shrubs used for landscaping shall conform to the following minimum standards
upon installation:
Evergreen trees: Not less than eight feet (8') in height.
Ornamental trees: Not less than ten feet (10') in height.
Shade trees: Not less than three and one-half inches (3.5") in caliper, as
measured six inches (6") above grade.
Shrubs: Not less than twenty four inches (24") in height, unless used for
screening, in which case shrubs shall not be less than four feet (4') in
height.
            (2)   Buffer Yards:
               (A)   Minimum buffer yard dimensions: One hundred feet (100')
when a nonresidential use is adjacent to a residential use.
Fifty feet (50') adjacent to an arterial road.
Thirty five feet (35') adjacent to a collector and local roads when across the
street from a residential use.
Twenty feet (20') when a nonresidential use is across the street from another
nonresidential use.
   BUFFER YARD SETBACKS
 
                   Street Type And Adjacent Use
                            Collector Or Local
Nonresidential Use Arterial Public             Across The       Residential
                   Road     Road When Across   Street From Non- Use
                            The Street From    residential Use
                            A Residential Use
Minimum setback    50 ft.   35 ft.             20 ft.           100 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2192.gif]
               (B)   A landscape buffer yard shall be required along the full
length of Roosevelt and Winfield Roads, and adjacent to residential uses, and
all other public roads within the RW-PD district, and shall include an
undulating berm having an average height of five feet (5') with a three to one
(3:1) slope. The final design of such berm shall be approved as part of a final
planned development plan.
               (C)   No buildings or parking area shall be permitted within a
required buffer yard.
               (D)   Unless otherwise provided, internal buffer yards between
buildings or uses shall be as defined in the planned development special use
permit ordinance.
            (3)   Minimum Density Of Plant Materials In Buffer Yards: The
following table classifies buffer yards into two (2) categories (A and B). To
calculate the minimum number of plants required in a buffer yard, the length of
one side of a property should be divided by one hundred feet (100') and
multiplied by the number of plants shown in the appropriate illustration.
      BUFFER YARD DENSITY1
 
                          Adjacent Land Use
Proposed Land Use         Single-Family Commercial Arterial Collector
                          Residential              Roads    Roads
Single-family residential n/a           B          B2       A
Multi-family residential  B             B          B2       A
Commercial                B             n/a        B2       A
 
   Notes:
      1.    All buffer yard plantings are required to consist of at least 20
percent perennial and annual beds.
      2.    Requires use of an undulating berm, masonry wall, or wood fence or
a combination of these elements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2194.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2196.gif]
            (4)   Parkways And Street Trees:
               (A)   All dedicated and private collector roads shall include a
minimum twelve foot (12') parkway strip between the sidewalk and the roadway.
               (B)   All dedicated and private collector roads shall have
street trees within the parkway strip on both sides of the street, with not
less than one tree for every thirty five (35) linear feet of right of way,
provided, however, that clustered landscape designs that provide a more
creative parkway treatment are encouraged.
               (C)   All parkways and other areas to be grassed shall be sodded
grass and not seeded.
            (5)   Parking Lots And Screening:
               (A)   Subject to subsections D2f(5)(A)(i) and D2f(5)(A)(ii) of
this section, all parking lots shall include landscape islands at a ratio of
one landscaped island for every fifteen (15) parking spaces, such that no
parking space may be greater than one hundred thirty five feet (135') away from
a landscape island. Each island shall be a minimum of ten feet by twenty feet
(10' x 20') in size and shall be concrete curbed and ground covered and shall
include at least one tree in addition to other shrubs and plant materials.
   (i)   The maximum spacing requirement between parking spaces and landscaped
islands may be varied to allow for a lesser number of larger landscaped islands
to be provided, which islands shall be of sufficient size to sustain a
diversity of plant material and shall be designed and placed within the parking
lot in a nongrid fashion in order to create relief in the monotonous layout of
the parking lot; and
   (ii)   All landscaped islands shall be irrigated.
               (B)   Within the setback area between the parking lot and public
or private road, not less than one tree shall be provided for every two (2)
parking spaces within a distance of thirty feet (30') of the parking areas.
               (C)   Parking lots that are not otherwise fully screened from
the public right of way shall be screened with a hedge, berm, or similar
treatment covering one hundred percent (100%) of the width of the parking lot.
   (i)   Hedges should be maintained between thirty inches (30") and forty
inches (40") in height.
   (ii)   A solid screen may be achieved by clustering shrubs beneath shade or
ornamental trees, by using evergreen trees, berms or any mix thereof, or by
providing a six foot (6') solid commercial grade wood fence or masonry wall
along the length of the property.
   (iii)   Shrubs shall be spaced at a maximum of four feet (4') on center.
               (D)   Loading docks, service yards, trash receptacles, and open
storage yards shall be screened one hundred percent (100%) from view from the
public right of way and adjacent properties by a masonry wall, or year round
evergreen landscaping, except for entry to such facilities. Such entry shall be
gated, with a gate height minimum of six feet (6').
            (6)   Foundation Landscaping:
               (A)   There should be sufficient quantities of shade,
ornamental, and evergreen trees, shrubs and ground cover to adequately screen
unattractive views at the side and rear of adjacent buildings.
               (B)   At minimum, an eight foot (8') wide landscape area should
be provided adjacent to all building walls (excluding driveways, entrance
areas, covered walkways, service and delivery areas).
               (C)   Foundation landscape areas shall be planted with a balance
of understory and evergreen trees, shrubs, annual and perennial flowers, and
ground covers, designed to provide year round colors.
               (D)   Foundation landscape plantings should emphasize the
softening of large expanses of building walls length and height, accent
building entrances and architectural features and screen mechanical equipment
adjacent to buildings.
            (7)   Tree Preservation: Tree preservation shall be required for
all developments within the RW-PD district in accordance with section
10-2-15 of this title.
            (8)   Landscape Maintenance: All landscape areas shall be
irrigated.
         g.   Building And Site Design:
            (1)   Compliance: Building and site design should comply with the
"Commercial Design Guidelines Manual" of the village of Winfield, as amended.
            (2)   Mechanical Equipment: Roof mounted heating, ventilation and
air conditioning equipment (excluding roof vents), ductwork, air compressors,
and other fixed operating machinery shall be fully screened from public view
with architectural treatments that complement the overall design of the
structure.
         h.   Lighting:
            (1)   Light fixtures shall not produce glare on adjacent
residential properties. To achieve this, luminaries shall be shielded to
prevent light shining beyond the lot lines onto neighboring properties, and
light levels shall not exceed 0.2 foot-candle measured at the property line.
            (2)   All light fixtures, with the exception of decorative fixtures
used in pedestrian areas when expressly approved by the village, shall consist
of flush mounted, cutoff lighting, such that no part of the bulb or fixture
lens extends below the fixture housing.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2198.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2200.gif]
            (3)   All light fixtures shall use white, metal halide LED
equivalent light bulbs, except where such options are not available for
decorative fixtures.
            (4)   Light poles shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height
within two hundred feet (200') of the property boundary. Beyond two hundred
feet (200'), light poles shall not exceed thirty feet (30').
            (5)   For buildings and ground surfaces the following average
maintained levels of illumination shall not be exceeded:
 
Building And Monuments (Floodlighted) Foot-Candle
 Light surfaces                      5.0
 Medium light surfaces               10.0
 Medium dark surfaces                15.0
 Dark surfaces                       20.0
 Parking areas                       4.5
 Building entrances and exits        2.0
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the village may authorize higher levels of
illumination for certain uses upon a determination that demonstrates that the
level of light produced from the site will not negatively impact adjacent
property or the character of the village, and is needed to enhance public
safety.
            (6)   All developments shall submit a photometric study and plan
indicating light levels for buildings and parking areas within the entire site.
            (7)   Light level measurements shall be in preformed in accordance
with the "Illuminating Engineering Society Of North America, IES Lighting
Handbook" standards.
         i.   Signs:
            (1)   Compliance: All signs shall comply with the sign regulations
of section
10-2-16-4, "Unified Business Center Sign Plan", of this title, and title 9,
chapter 3, "Signs", of this code, with the following exceptions: Pole signs
shall be prohibited.
            (2)   Number Of Signs Permitted Per Zoning Lot:
               (A)   Each zoning lot shall be allowed one sign; provided that
any lot with more than one thousand (1,000) linear feet of frontage on any
single street shall be permitted one sign for every one thousand (1,000) linear
feet or fraction thereof of such street frontage.
            (3)   Sign Design Standards:
               (A)   The colors and materials of signs shall be similar to and
compatible with the architectural style, colors and materials of the related
building. Every sign shall be designed as an integral architectural element of
the building and site to which it relates.
               (B)   The number of graphic elements on a sign shall be held to
the minimum needed to convey the sign's message and shall be composed in
proportion to the area of the sign face.
         j.   Underground Utilities: All utilities, including electric,
telephone, gas and cable within and along all public and private roads shall be
installed underground.
         k.   Utility Meters/Transformers:
            (1)   Wall mounted utility meters shall not be mounted on the front
elevation of a building.
            (2)   Wall mounted utility meters and ground supported transformers
shall be painted to match the nearest building.
            (3)   If visible from residential areas or the public right of way,
meters and transformers shall be screened by landscaping equal in height to the
tallest meter or transformer. (Ord. 2015-01-01, 1-15-2015)
   E.   St. Charles Road Corridor - Planned Development (SC-PD) District:
      1.   General Objectives: Overall land use and design objectives for
development within St. Charles Road corridor - planned development district
(SC-PD) include: Stores, restaurants, open space, multiple-family dwelling, and
offices should be located in close proximity to each other to create an
integrated development that is pedestrian oriented. Single lot, single use
developments shall be discouraged.
         a.   Open space shall be incorporated into each development within the
SC-PD to provide opportunities for conservation of natural resources,
alternative methods to stormwater management, and attractive pathways and
gathering places.
         b.   New development shall provide dedicated access to the Great
Western Trail bike path at multiple locations to allow ease of access and
encourage use of the path. Linkages between the Great Western Trail and the
Steven M. Ravenesi Trail should be made to provide a continuous trail system.
         c.   Access points to St. Charles Road should be limited to connecting
with internal access roads, not individual lots or units.
         d.   The identity and image of the St. Charles Road corridors should
be enhanced with landscaping, berming, streetscape elements, and infrastructure
improvements.
      2.   General Design Standards Applicable To All Uses:
         a.   Land Use Allocation: All land uses shall conform to the intent of
the village of Winfield comprehensive plan, as amended. The standards below
shall serve as guidelines in the review of a specific project.
            (1)   Any development within the SC-PD district should reserve and
maintain thirty percent (30%) of the total site area for open space. Any area
designed with pervious pavers or other pavement system that allows for water
infiltration as approved by the village, shall be included in the open space
standard. This open space should include preservation of wetlands and other
high quality natural areas through conservation and relocation to the extent
practical to achieve the overall development goal of the SC-PD district.
            (2)   The balance of the land within the SC-PD district shall
consist of a mix of commercial and high density residential uses that conforms
to the intent of the comprehensive plan.
            (3)   The percent of nonretail uses within areas identified in the
comprehensive plan for retail uses should be limited to no more than twenty
percent (20%) of the total retail square footage.
         b.   Minimum Development Size:
            (1)   High Density Multiple-Family Residential: No single
development shall be permitted on a site less than three (3) acres, except
where the development is a component of an approved planned development project
that is equal to, or greater than three (3) acres in total.
            (2)   Site Consolidation Incentive: Development sites ten (10)
acres or greater shall be eligible for a ten percent (10%) density bonus.
            (3)   Moderate Density Multiple-Family Residential (Townhomes, Row
Houses, Duplexes): No single development shall be permitted on a site less than
three (3) acres, except where the development is a component of an approved
planned development project that is equal to, or greater than three (3) acres
in total.
            (4)   Site Consolidation Incentive: Development sites six (6) acres
or greater shall be eligible for a ten percent (10%) density bonus.
      3.   Building Height And Residential Density: Maximum height limitations
and density of residential developments shall be specified with the granting of
an SC-PD special use permit, and shall be consistent with the recommendations
of the village's comprehensive plan for the St. Charles Road key development
area.
      4.   Building Setbacks:
         a.   High Density Multiple-Family Residential:
            (1)   One hundred twenty five foot (125') average setback, with no
building less than fifty feet (50') from the road, required for all high
density residential uses along St. Charles Road. If there is no parking or
drive aisle between the building and such roads, the building setback may be
reduced to an average of seventy five feet (75'), with no building less than
thirty feet (30') from the road.
            (2)   Seventy five foot (75') average setback, with no building
less than thirty feet (30') from the road, required for all high density
residential uses along other public roads. If there is no parking or drive
aisle between the building and such roads, the building setback may be reduced
to an average of fifty feet (50'), with no building less than thirty feet (30')
from the road.
            (3)   All setbacks for buildings not adjacent to a public street
shall be determined by the plan commission on the basis of the merits of the
proposed planned development.
            (4)   In all other instances the yard setbacks shall be established
as part of the planned development special use permit.
         b.   Moderate Density Multiple-Family Residential (Townhomes, Row
Houses, Duplexes):
            (1)   Fifty foot (50') minimum setback required for all moderate
density residential uses along St. Charles Road.
            (2)   Twenty foot (20') minimum setback required for all moderate
density residential uses along other public or private roads.
            (3)   In all other instances the yard setbacks shall be established
as part of the planned development special use permit.
         c.   Nonresidential Uses:
            (1)   Buildings adjacent to a public street:
               (A)   For development sites two (2) acres or less consisting of
small neighborhood retail or office centers, a twenty five foot (25') minimum
required setback for all uses adjacent to a public street. If there is no
parking or drive aisle between the building and such road, the building setback
may be reduced to fifteen feet (15').
               (B)   For development sites greater than two (2) acres, a fifty
foot (50') minimum required setback for all uses adjacent to a public street.
If there is no parking or drive aisle between the building and such road, the
building setback may be reduced to thirty feet (30').
            (2)   Buildings not adjacent to a public street (internal
setbacks): No minimum requirement. All setbacks between buildings not adjacent
to a public street shall be determined by the plan commission on the basis of
the merits of the proposed planned development.
            (3)   Buildings adjacent to residential uses: Fifty foot (50')
minimum required for all nonresidential uses that are adjacent to an existing
or planned residential use.
            (4)   In all other instances the yard setbacks shall be established
as part of the planned development special use permit.
      BUILDING SETBACKS
      HIGH DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY USE
 
                           Street Type And Adjacent Use
                           Arterial Road   Collector Or      Residential Use
                                           Local Public Road
Setback                    125 ft. average 75 ft. average    n/a
                           50 ft. minimum  50 ft. minimum
Setback with no parking or 75 ft. average  50 ft. average
drive aisle in front of    30 ft. minimum  30 ft. minimum    n/a
building
 
      BUILDING SETBACKS
      MODERATE DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY USE
 
                Street Type And Adjacent Use
                Arterial Road Collector Or      Residential Use
                              Local Public Road
Minimum setback 50 ft.        20 ft.            n/a
 
      BUILDING SETBACKS
      NONRESIDENTIAL USE
 
                  Street Type And Adjacent Use
                  Arterial Road         Collector Or          Residential Use
                                        Local Public Road
Minimum setback   50 ft. for properties 25 ft. for properties 50 ft.
                  greater than 2 acres  2 acres or less
Setback with no
parking or drive  30 ft. for properties 15 ft. for properties 50 ft.
aisle in front of greater than 2 acres  2 acres or less
building
 
      5.   Lot Coverage:
         a.   Residential multi-family or attached: No more than forty percent
(40%).
         b.   Mixed use: No more than forty percent (40%).
      6.   Access And Circulation:
         a.   Sidewalks:
            (1)   Residential uses: A sidewalk at least five feet (5') in width
shall be provided adjacent to all public and private streets, in accordance
with the requirements of the village land subdivision development ordinance,
title 11 of this code.
            (2)   Commercial uses: A sidewalk at least five feet (5') in width
shall be provided adjacent to all public and private streets, and buildings,
and shall be protected from travel lanes with bollards, raised plant beds/seat
walls, or other similar streetscape element, unless otherwise provided in the
planned development special use permit ordinance.
         b.   Bike And Pedestrian Paths:
            (1)   Incorporated Into Design Of All Developments: A system of
pedestrian and bicycle trails shall be incorporated into the design of all
developments within the SC-PD district, in accordance with the trail system
recommended in the village's comprehensive plan. All developments within the
SC-PD district shall be required to coordinate connection points between
existing and proposed trails on adjoining private or public properties in order
to further the village's objective to create a unified trail system.
            (2)   Commercial Parking Lots Or Other Outdoor Spaces: All
commercial parking lots or other outdoor spaces such as plazas, courtyards,
squares and gardens shall be provided with pedestrian circulation systems, such
as sidewalks, paths, and marked crosswalks. These systems shall connect all
portions of the site to each of the commercial establishments.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2202.gif]
            (3)   Bike Storage:
               (A)   For off street automobile parking facilities of twenty
(20) spaces or more, bicycle parking spaces shall be equal to five percent (5%)
of the required number of automobile parking spaces.
               (B)   Bicycle parking shall be located in safe and convenient
locations near the primary building entrance.
         c.   Site Access:
            (1)   Access points into developments within the SC-PD district
should be minimized and be aligned with existing public and private roads,
where feasible. Any required improvements to adjacent roads will be the
responsibility of the developer, as may be recommended by the village traffic
planning or engineering consultant, or by other governmental agencies having
jurisdiction over such roads, in response to a traffic study required for the
project(s). Required road improvements shall be set forth in the planned
development special use permit ordinance.
            (2)   When appropriate cross access easements and the use of shared
curb cuts are required between development sites.
         d.   Parking Areas:
            (1)   Concrete curbs shall be provided around the perimeters of all
off street parking lots, and all internal private roads.
            (2)   The use of permeable paving systems or other innovative
stormwater management systems is encouraged.
      7.   Landscaping, Buffering, And Screening:
         a.   Minimum Size Of Plant Materials: The intent of these standards is
to ensure that vegetation when installed has a mature appearance and more
immediate effect in buffering adjacent nonresidential uses, while improving the
overall appearance and quality of each development. Trees and shrubs used for
landscaping shall conform to the following minimum standards upon installation:
            (1)   Evergreen trees: Not less than eight feet (8') in height.
            (2)   Ornamental trees: Not less than ten feet (10') in height.
            (3)   Shade trees: Not less than three and one-half inches (3.5")
in caliper, as measured six inches (6") above grade.
            (4)   Shrubs: Not less than twenty four inches (24") in height,
unless used for screening, in which case shrubs shall not be less than four
feet (4') in height.
         b.   Buffer Yards:
            (1)   Minimum buffer yard dimensions:
               (A)   High density multiple-family: Thirty feet (30') adjacent
to an arterial road.
Thirty feet (30') adjacent to a collector and local roads.
               (B)   Moderate density multiple-family: Thirty feet (30')
adjacent to an arterial road.
Twenty feet (20') adjacent to a collector and local roads.
               (C)   Nonresidential: Thirty feet (30') adjacent to an arterial
road, for properties greater than two (2) acres.
Fifteen feet (15') adjacent to an arterial road, for properties two (2) acres
or less.
Fifty feet (50') adjacent to a residential use.
            (2)   A landscape buffer yard shall be required along the full
length of all public roads within the SC-PD district, and shall include an
undulating berm having an average height of five feet (5') with a three to one
(3:1) slope. The final design of such berm shall be approved as part of a final
planned development plan.
               (A)   No buildings or parking area shall be permitted within a
required buffer yard.
               (B)   Unless otherwise provided, internal buffer yards between
buildings or uses shall be as defined in the planned development special use
permit ordinance.
      BUFFER YARD SETBACKS
      HIGH DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY USE
 
                Street Type And Adjacent Use
                Arterial Road Collector Or      Residential Use
                              Local Public Road
Minimum setback 30 ft.        30 ft.            n/a
 
      BUFFER YARD SETBACKS
      MODERATE DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY USE
 
                Street Type And Adjacent Use
                Arterial Road Collector Or      Residential Use
                              Local Public Road
Minimum setback 30 ft.        20 ft.            n/a
 
      BUFFER YARD SETBACKS
      NONRESIDENTIAL USE
 
                Street Type And Adjacent Use
                Arterial Road         Collector Or            Residential Use
                                      Local Public Road
                                      30 ft. for properties
                30 ft. for properties greater than 2 acres
Minimum setback greater than 2 acres                         50 ft.
                                      15 ft. for properties 2
                                      acres or less
 
         c.   Minimum Density Of Plant Materials In Buffer Yards:
            (1)   The following table classifies buffer yards into two (2)
categories (A and B). To calculate the minimum number of plants required in a
buffer yard, the length of one side of a property should be divided by one
hundred feet (100') and multiplied by the number of plants shown in the
appropriate illustration.
      BUFFER YARD DENSITY1
 
Proposed                  Adjacent Land Use
Land Use                  Single-Family Commercial Arterial Roads Collector
                          Residential                             Roads
Single-family residential n/a           B          B 2            A
Multi-family residential  B             B          B2             A
Commercial                B             n/a        B2             A
 
   Notes:
       1.    All buffer yard plantings are required to consist of at least 20
percent perennial and annual beds.
       2.    Requires use of an undulating berm, masonry wall, or wood fence or
a combination of these elements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2204.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2206.gif]
         d.   Parkways And Street Trees:
            (1)   All public dedicated roads and private collector and internal
roads shall include a minimum twelve foot (12') parkway strip between the
sidewalk and the roadway.
            (2)   All public dedicated roads and private collector roads shall
have street trees within the parkway strip on both sides of the street, with
not less than one tree for every thirty five (35) linear feet of right of way,
provided, however, that clustered landscape designs that provide a more
creative parkway treatment are encouraged.
            (3)   All parkways and other areas to be grassed shall be sodded
grass and not seeded.
         e.   Parking Lots And Screening:
            (1)   Subject to subsections E7e(1)(A) and E7e(1)(B) of this
section, all parking lots shall include landscape islands at a ratio of one
landscaped island for every fifteen (15) parking spaces, such that no parking
space may be greater than one hundred thirty five feet (135') away from a
landscape island. Each island shall be a minimum of ten feet by twenty feet
(10' x 20') in size and shall be concrete curbed and ground covered and shall
include at least one tree in addition to other shrubs and plant materials.
               (A)   The maximum spacing requirement between parking spaces and
landscaped islands may be varied to allow for a lesser number of larger
landscaped islands to be provided, which islands shall be of sufficient size to
sustain a diversity of plant material and shall be designed and placed within
the parking lot in a nongrid fashion in order to create relief in the
monotonous layout of the parking lot; and
               (B)   All landscaped islands shall be irrigated.
            (2)   Within the setback area between the parking lot and public or
private road, not less than one tree shall be provided for every two (2)
parking spaces within a distance of thirty feet (30') of the parking areas.
            (3)   Parking lots that are not otherwise fully screened from the
public right of way shall be screened with a hedge, berm, or similar treatment
covering one hundred percent (100%) of the width of the parking lot.
               (A)   Hedges should be maintained between thirty inches (30")
and forty inches (40") in height.
               (B)   A solid screen may be achieved by clustering shrubs
beneath shade or ornamental trees, by using evergreen trees, berms or any mix
thereof, or by providing a six foot (6') solid commercial grade wood fence or
masonry wall along the length of the property.
               (C)   Shrubs shall be spaced at a maximum of four feet (4') on
center.
            (4)   Loading docks, service yards, trash receptacles, and open
storage yards shall be screened one hundred percent (100%) from view from the
public right of way and adjacent properties by a masonry wall, or year round
evergreen landscaping, except for entry to such facilities. Such entry shall be
gated, with a gate height minimum of six feet (6').
         f.   Foundation Landscaping:
            (1)   There should be sufficient quantities of shade, ornamental,
and evergreen trees, shrubs and ground cover to adequately screen unattractive
views at the side and rear of adjacent buildings.
            (2)   At minimum, an eight foot (8') wide landscape area should be
provided adjacent to all building walls (excluding driveways, entrance areas,
covered walkways, service and delivery areas).
            (3)   Foundation landscape areas shall be planted with a balance of
understory and evergreen trees, shrubs, annual and perennial flowers, and
ground covers, designed to provide year round colors.
            (4)   Foundation landscape plantings should emphasize the softening
of large expanses of building walls length and height, accent building
entrances and architectural features and screen mechanical equipment adjacent
to buildings.
         g.   Tree Preservation: Tree preservation shall be required for all
developments within the SC-PD district in accordance with section
10-2-15 of this title.
         h.   Landscape Maintenance: All landscape areas shall be irrigated.
      8.   Building And Site Design: Building and site design should comply
with the "Residential And Commercial Design Guidelines Manual" of the village
of Winfield, as amended.
      9.   Mechanical Equipment: Roof mounted heating, ventilation and air
conditioning equipment (excluding roof vents), ductwork, air compressors, and
other fixed operating machinery shall be fully screened from public view with
architectural treatments that complement the overall design of the structure.
      10.   Lighting:
         a.   Light fixtures shall not produce glare on adjacent residential
properties. To achieve this, luminaries shall be shielded to prevent light
shining beyond the lot lines onto neighboring properties, and light levels
shall not exceed 0.2 foot-candle measured at the property line.
         b.   All light fixtures, with the exception of decorative fixtures
used in pedestrian areas when expressly approved by the village, shall consist
of flush mounted, cutoff lighting, such that no part of the bulb or fixture
lens extends below the fixture housing.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2208.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2210.gif]
         c.   All light fixtures shall use white, metal halide LED equivalent
light bulbs, except where such options are not available for decorative
fixtures.
         d.   Light poles shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height within
residential projects, and shall not exceed thirty feet (30') within commercial
projects.
         e.   For buildings and ground surfaces the following average
maintained levels of illumination shall not be exceeded:
 
Building And Monuments (Floodlighted) Foot-Candle
 Light surfaces                      5.0
 Medium light surfaces               10.0
 Medium dark surfaces                15.0
 Dark surfaces                       20.0
 Parking areas                       4.5
 Building entrances and exits        2.0
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the village may authorize higher levels of
illumination for certain uses upon a determination that demonstrates that the
level of light produced from the site will not negatively impact adjacent
property or the character of the village, and is needed to enhance public
safety.
         f.   All developments shall submit a photometric study and plan
indicating light levels for buildings and parking areas within the entire site.
         g.   Light level measurements shall be in preformed in accordance with
the "Illuminating Engineering Society Of North America, IES Lighting Handbook"
standards.
      11.   Commercial Signs:
         a.   Compliance With Sign Regulations: All commercial signs shall
comply with the sign regulations of section
10-2-16-4, "Unified Business Center Sign Plan", of this title, and title 9,
chapter 3, "Signs", of this code, with the following exceptions: Pole signs
shall be prohibited.
         b.   Number Of Signs Permitted Per Zoning Lot: Each zoning lot shall
be allowed one sign; provided that any lot with more than one thousand (1,000)
linear feet of frontage on any single street shall be permitted one sign for
every one thousand (1,000) linear feet or fraction thereof of such street
frontage.
         c.   Sign Design Standards:
            (1)   The colors and materials of signs shall be similar to and
compatible with the architectural style, colors and materials of the related
building. Every sign shall be designed as an integral architectural element of
the building and site to which it relates.
            (2)   The number of graphic elements on a sign shall be held to the
minimum needed to convey the sign's message and shall be composed in proportion
to the area of the sign face.
      12.   Underground Utilities: All utilities, including electric,
telephone, gas and cable within and along all public and private roads shall be
installed underground.
      13.   Utility Meters/Transformers:
         a.   Wall mounted utility meters shall not be mounted on the front
elevation of a building.
         b.   Wall mounted utility meters and ground supported transformers
shall be painted to match the nearest building.
         c.   If visible from residential areas or the public right of way,
meters and transformers shall be screened by landscaping equal in height to the
tallest meter or transformer. (Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-15-2015)
10-10A-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Traditional development controls, as set forth in the zoning and
land subdivision ordinances, may constrain imaginative development. Therefore,
it is the intent of these provisions to permit review of integrated site
proposals on their own merits, where they afford the village amenities and
benefits which enhance the quality of life due to unified planning and design,
as defined by the Winfield comprehensive development plan's planning and design
guidelines.
      2.   These provisions are not intended as a means to circumvent the
procedures or standards of Winfield's zoning and land subdivision ordinances,
thereby allowing a lower standard of development than would otherwise be
permitted under the strict interpretation of these codes. Rather, they are
intended to take advantage of particular site characteristics, increase the
flexibility and originality of design, provide more open space and public
amenities (than otherwise required), promote the protection of high quality
natural resources, and establish better transitions between dissimilar land
uses.
      3.   All land subdivisions shall meet or exceed the standards required by
title 11 of this code, as amended from time to time, unless specifically
exempted by approval of the village board.
      4.   The following additional standards shall govern planned developments
and the village board may approve exceptions from these standards when
determined appropriate to achieve the objectives set forth in the purpose
statement of this article:
         a.   Ownership: The proposed planned development shall be under the
unified control of the petitioner, as defined by this title.
         b.   Comprehensive Development Plan: The proposed planned development
shall be consistent with the Winfield general development plan and other
planning objectives established for the village.
         c.   Compatibility: Uses permitted in a planned development shall be
compatible with surrounding land uses.
         d.   Subdivision: Unless otherwise approved by the village board, a
plat of subdivision shall be required in accordance with procedures set forth
in title 11 of this code, as amended from time to time.
         e.   Yards: The required yards along the periphery of a planned
development shall be at least equal in depth to those of the underlying zoning
district, or the adjacent zoning district, whichever is greater. The village
board may recommend greater setbacks from the boundary line of a planned
development when determined to be necessary to protect the privacy of residents
within both existing and proposed subdivisions adjacent to the planned
development.
         f.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of all
streets in residential, business, and office planned developments unless an
alternative system is provided (internal to the development) that provides
adequate connection between the development and adjacent properties and
activity areas. In addition, walks shall be planned to provide convenient
access for pedestrians between residential blocks and from cul-de-sacs to
adjacent blocks and public activity areas.
         g.   Public Streets:
            (1)   All streets shall be publicly dedicated, and constructed in
accordance with applicable standards contained in title 11 of this code, as
amended from time to time.
            (2)   The plan commission may recommend and village board may
approve reduced rights of way or pavement width in residential subdivisions, if
it is determined appropriate for maintaining the character of the area or
preserving natural features.
         h.   Vehicular Access: Points of vehicular ingress and egress to the
site shall be minimized to maintain the safety and operational efficiency of
Winfield's major roadways and collector roadways.
         i.   Screening: Where a nonresidential use abuts, or is across the
street from a residential or institutional use, screening shall be provided as
recommended by the plan commission and approved by the village board.
         j.   Underground Utilities: All utilities (including electric,
telephone, gas and cable TV) shall be installed underground.
         k.   Tree Replacement: Where determined appropriate by the village
board, trees greater than six inches (6") in caliper, as measured twelve inches
(12") above grade, that are identified to be removed for construction, shall be
replaced in accordance with a landscape plan that is subject to review and
approval by the village board.
         l.   Standards: All activities associated with a business, office, or
mixed use planned development shall conform with the standards established for
nonresidential uses by chapters 2 and 7 of this title.
         m.   Preliminary Plan Approval: Preliminary approval of a planned
development by the village board shall be rendered null and void, without
further action by the village board, in the event that the petitioner has
failed to obtain final planned development approval for at least the first
phase of the development within twenty four (24) months of the date of the
preliminary approval.
         n.   Final Plan Approval: A valid application for final plan approval
shall be submitted within eighteen (18) months of the date of village board
approval of a preliminary plan. (Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999)
         o.   Recording Of Plat: Within thirty (30) days of the date of passage
of an ordinance by the village board with respect to any final plan, whether
for all of a development or for a single phase, the petitioner shall record a
plat with the county recorder that has been approved by the village as being
consistent with the approved planned development.
         p.   Initiation Of Construction: The construction of the planned unit
development shall be initiated within six (6) months from the date of passage
of the ordinance by the village board with respect to the final plan. Failure
to initiate construction within the time periods specified by this subsection
may result in the revocation of the special use permit, unless an extension is
requested by the developer and approved by the village board.
         q.   Substantial Completion Of Infrastructure: If the developer must
extend water, sewer or roads to the site, the construction of the
infrastructure for the planned unit development shall be substantially
completed within twelve (12) months from the date of passage of the ordinance
by the village board with respect to the final plan. Failure to substantially
complete construction of the infrastructure within the time periods specified
by this subsection may result in revocation of the special use permit, unless
an extension is requested by the developer and approved by the village board.
         r.   Building Permits: The developer shall submit a completed
application for building permits within three (3) months of the date of passage
of the ordinance by the village board with respect to the final plan of any
phase of a planned development; provided, however, if the developer must extend
water, sanitary sewer or roads to the site, then the developer shall have a
period of twelve (12) months from the aforesaid date of passage to submit a
completed application for building permits. Failure to submit a completed
application for building permits within the time periods specified by this
subsection may result in the revocation of the special use permit, unless an
extension is requested by the developer and approved by the village board.
         s.   Substantial Completion Of The Planned Development: The
construction of the planned development shall be substantially completed: 1)
within one year from the date of passage of the ordinance with respect to the
final plan or 2) within the period of time, if any, specified by the petitioner
and set forth in the development ordinance, whichever is later. The term
"substantially completed", as used in this subsection, shall mean that at least
fifty percent (50%) of the buildings or units to be constructed under the
approved final plan have been certified as complete by the village building
official. Failure to substantially complete construction within the time period
specified by the special use permit may result in the revocation of said
permit, unless an extension is requested by the developer and approved by the
village board. (Ord. 2002-9-37, 9-5-2002)
         t.   Compliance With Zoning Or Other Ordinances: Where there is a
conflict, or difference between the provisions of this article and those of
other articles of this title or other village ordinances, the provisions of
this article shall prevail. Except as otherwise set forth herein, all other
applicable village code ordinance provisions shall apply.
         u.   Exceptions: The plan commission may recommend and the village
board may approve exceptions to the standards and criteria of the zoning
ordinance when determined necessary to achieve the planning objectives set
forth in this article. (Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999; amd. Ord. 2002-9-37, 9-5-
2002)
10-10A-5: RESIDENTIAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Open Space: Open space shall be provided in the form of parks,
preservation areas and recreational areas/facilities, consistent with
regulatory and policy directives of the village and the provisions of this
title.
      1.   Unless otherwise recommended by the plan commission and approved by
the village board, not less than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross land
area within a single-family residential planned development shall be reserved
and designated as open space, including parks, conservation areas and
recreational areas/facilities. This percent shall be increased to thirty
percent (30%) for planned developments in which thirty percent (30%) or more of
the dwelling units are other than single-family detached.
      2.   For land designated on the adopted Winfield comprehensive
development plan as park/recreation or other type of open space, land, in lieu
of cash, shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of title 11 of
this code, as amended from time to time.
      3.   Designated open space reserved under a planned development shall be
held and maintained by a property owners' association, unless conveyed to a
public authority with the approval of said authority and the village board.
      4.   All designated open space for the planned development shall be
dedicated as open space in perpetuity, and shall be so designated in the
development ordinance and final plat of subdivision(s) recorded for the planned
development.
      5.   The cost for improving open space or constructing recreational
facilities for the planned development shall be included in the letter of
credit or other surety required for the public or quasi-public improvements, as
described in title 11 of this code, as amended from time to time.
      6.   Open space for a planned development shall be suitably improved for
its intended use, as determined by the recommendation of the plan commission
and approval of the village board. The village board may determine that open
space containing natural features worthy of preservation may be left unimproved
as dedicated public or private open space. However, open space designated for
recreational use shall be required to meet the environmental quality standards
of title 11 of this code, as amended from time to time, unless specifically
exempted by approval of the village board.
      7.   No portion of a planned development shall be conveyed or dedicated
as public open space or recreation to any public body until such conveyance or
dedication is reviewed and approved by the village board.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: Minimum lot size or net lot area per dwelling unit,
as defined by this title, shall meet the standards set forth in this title for
the underlying zoning district, unless twenty five percent (25%) of the total
gross acres have been set aside for: active recreational areas and/or
facilities; open space; or preservation of major stands of trees, or other
natural areas. The village finds that flexibility in its standards is warranted
only when such amenities are proposed as part of a planned development.
However, the following standards shall apply to all planned developments:
      1.   Net development area shall be determined by subtracting the area set
aside for nonresidential uses from the gross development area, then deducting
fifteen percent (15%) of the remainder for streets, regardless of the amount of
land actually required for streets.
      2.   The total number of units allowed shall not exceed the number
calculated for "net density", as defined by this title. However, where no
minimum lot size is established by the underlying zoning district, the
following minimum standards shall be used to calculate the maximum allowable
number of dwellings by type:
         a.   Single-family, detached: Six thousand (6,000) square feet.
         b.   Single-family, attached: Five thousand (5,000) square feet.
         c.   Patio house: Five thousand (5,000) square feet.
         d.   Townhome: Three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet.
         e.   Two-family or duplex: Three thousand five hundred (3,500) square
feet.
         f.   Quadraplex: Three thousand (3,000) square feet.
         g.   Apartments, low rise: Two thousand (2,000) square feet.
      3.   For the purpose of this article, recreational facilities and other
open space provided as part of the planned development shall include, but not
be limited to, the following:
         a.   Parks.
         b.   Greenbelts.
         c.   Golf course.
         d.   Swimming pools.
         e.   Community center.
         f.   Health club.
         g.   Tennis courts.
         h.   Jogging trails.
         i.   Physical fitness courses.
      4.   At the discretion of the village board, the following may be
included as open space:
         a.   Ponds required for stormwater retention or detention basins,
provided they are developed with trails, benches, and other substantial
landscape features.
         b.   Land for parks, greenbelts, or preservation of natural features
such as floodplains, steep slopes, wetlands, high quality native plant
communities, major stands of trees or riparian zones.
   C.   Building Separation: Residential structures shall be separated and
arranged to protect the privacy of each dwelling unit and provide adequate
space for emergency access and maintenance. Townhomes shall contain no more
than six (6) units without a separation, side to side, of at least twenty feet
(20'). Separation of townhomes front to front, or front to rear, shall be at
least sixty feet (60') and front or rear to sides shall be at least forty feet
(40'). (Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999)
10-10A-6: APPLICATION AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Administrative:
      1.   Application: Applications for planned developments shall be made on
forms provided by the village manager, and shall be accompanied by plans,
drawings, documents and other information required by this article.
Applications and other required documentation shall be reviewed by the village
manager for compliance with submittal requirements set forth herein for
preapplication, preliminary or final plan review, before forwarding these
materials to the plan review committee (as defined in subsection B1 of this
section), plan commission or village board.
      2.   Ordinances:
         a.   A planned development shall be controlled by means of a final
plan approval ordinance adopted by the village board subsequent to approval of
final plans. Said development ordinance shall include graphics and other
support documentation upon which village board approval is based. The final
plan approval ordinance shall specify any conditions of approval established by
the village board.
         b.   Ordinances approving final plans may provide for exceptions from
district regulations governing use, density, area, setbacks, height, parking,
and subdivision design standards, as determined to be desirable to achieve the
objectives of the proposed planned development, provided such exceptions are
consistent with the standards and criteria contained within this article.
   B.   Preapplication Procedure (Encouraged):
      1.   Prior to the filing of an application for approval of a planned
development, the petitioner shall contact the village manager to arrange an
informal meeting with the plan review committee, consisting of the following
professionals:
         a.   Village manager;
         b.   Village planner;
         c.   Village engineer;
         d.   Plan commission chair or other authorized representative from the
plan commission; and
         e.   Village trustee serving as liaison to the plan commission or
other authorized representative from the village board.
The plan review committee may also request the presence of other village
consultants, as determined appropriate by the village manager or village
president.
      2.   The purpose of the preapplication meeting is to discuss the proposed
development in conjunction with village planning and zoning objectives, as
expressed in the comprehensive development plan, and as set forth within this
article.
      3.   Not less than fifteen (15) days before the preapplication meeting,
the petitioner shall provide eight (8) copies of the following:
         a.   Concept Plan: A concept plan shall be submitted at a scale
necessary to describe the proposed development and surrounding area in
sufficient detail to demonstrate the relationship of the planned development to
adjoining uses, both existing and proposed, and to the topography and natural
features of the adjoining land uses. The concept plan shall include the
following:
            (1)   North arrow, scale and date of preparation.
            (2)   Name, address and profession of the person or firm who
prepared the plan.
            (3)   Proposed name of the planned development.
            (4)   Proposed land uses.
            (5)   Total acreage, and percent of the site devoted to each land
use.
            (6)   Proposed layout of streets, lots and blocks.
            (7)   Proposed school and park sites, if applicable.
            (8)   Other open space or developed recreation areas.
            (9)   Proposed building footprints and estimated floor area for all
nonresidential structures, if any.
            (10)   Wetlands, floodplains, floodways and surface waters,
including lakes, ponds, streams and drainage swales.
            (11)   Any other data reasonably necessary to provide an accurate
overview of the proposed development as determined by the village manager.
      4.   The plan review committee shall evaluate the proposed concept plan
and other documentation and shall advise the petitioner as to the compatibility
of the planned development with the comprehensive development plan, zoning
ordinance, land subdivision ordinance and the development goals and policies of
the village. Recommendations relative to a preapplication review are advisory
only, and shall not constitute a waiver from the requirements contained in
applicable ordinances.
      5.   The plan review committee may, at its discretion, require plans and
support documentation to be revised before referring the proposed planned
development to the village board. This may require additional meetings between
the petitioner and the plan review committee, to assure that the proposed
planned development conforms, to the maximum extent possible, with the
applicable ordinance provisions, goals, and policies of the village.
      6.   When determined desirable by the plan review committee, village
staff or village consultants shall prepare a written report to be forwarded to
the village board. The report shall:
         a.   Evaluate the compatibility of the planned development with the
Winfield comprehensive development plan;
         b.   Identify and comment on exceptions from applicable ordinances
which have been requested by the petitioner;
         c.   Summarize recommendations by the plan review committee regarding
the proposed planned development; and
         d.   Summarize the petitioner's proposed schedule for submitting
preliminary and final plans in accordance with procedures set forth herein.
   C.   Preliminary Plan:
      1.   Purpose:
         a.   The purpose of the preliminary plan is to obtain a recommendation
and preliminary approval by the village board indicating that all plans and
programs that the petitioner intends to build and follow are acceptable, and
that the petitioner can reasonably proceed with preparation of detailed
architecture, engineering, site and landscape plans.
         b.   The preliminary plan is more detailed than the concept plan
required for preapplication. This plan is meant to assure the petitioner that
final plans will be approved by the village board, provided these plans
substantially conform to the approved preliminary plans.
      2.   Procedure:
         a.   A request for preliminary plan approval, signed by the owner of
record of the land proposed for a planned development, shall be submitted to
the village manager, who will forward the request to the village board. The
village board will refer the matter to the plan commission for public hearing,
report, and recommendation.
         b.   Preliminary and final plans must be filed and processed
consecutively, and not simultaneously, unless specifically exempted from this
requirement by the village board.
         c.   Preliminary plats of subdivision may be processed along with the
preliminary plan submittal, according to procedures and submittal requirements
set forth in title 11 of this code, as amended from time to time.
      3.   Distribution Of Plans And Required Documentation:
         a.   Subsequent to referral by the village board, the petitioner shall
file twenty five (25) copies of plans and other support documentation, as
identified below, with the village manager. Based on the size and complexity of
the proposal, the plan review committee may also require the petitioner to
provide additional copies of submittals or provide other informational/data
formats, including, but not limited to, computer aided design drawings on
computer formatted disks.
         b.   Once all required drawings and information have been received,
the village manager shall distribute the preliminary plan submittal to the plan
commission, and to other reviewers designated by the village administrator.
This shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
            (1)   Plan commissioners and recording secretary.
            (2)   Board of trustees.
            (3)   Zoning administrator/code enforcement official.
            (4)   Village clerk.
            (5)   Village engineer.
            (6)   Village planner.
            (7)   Fire protection district representative.
            (8)   Village attorney.
         c.   Required plans and support documentation shall be submitted no
later than fifteen (15) working days before the next scheduled meeting of the
plan commission, to assure adequate time for review.
      4.   Required Application Submittals: Unless specific submittal
requirements are waived by the village manager, the following plans and
drawings, as applicable, shall be submitted at the scale necessary to clearly
indicate what is planned for the property:
         a.   Location Map: Location map.
         b.   Site Plan: The proposed site plan shall contain all the
information required at the preapplication stage, as well as the following:
            (1)   Location of the subject site by section, town and range, or
by other approved legal description.
            (2)   Name and address of the site planner, engineer, architect and
landscape architect.
            (3)   Name and address of the owner and/or trust beneficiary.
            (4)   Site data, including (as applicable):
               (A)   Total acreage, and acreage of each proposed lot, outlot,
and open space, preservation or recreation areas.
               (B)   Acres and percent of the planned development devoted to
each land use.
               (C)   Percent of land devoted to streets and public rights of
way.
               (D)   Percent of land covered by buildings and parking.
               (E)   Percent of the site devoted to active and passive
recreational "open space", as defined by this title.
               (F)   Percent of the site devoted to nonrecreational open space
for the purpose of preserving environmentally sensitive and/or aesthetic
natural features.
               (G)   Net acreage of developable land, as defined by this title.
               (H)   Minimum lot size and/or net lot area, as defined by this
title.
               (I)   Existing zoning on and adjacent to the site.
            (5)   Existing topography and proposed grading.
            (6)   Existing and proposed zoning, including zoning on adjacent
properties within two hundred feet (200') of the subject property.
            (7)   Municipal and school districts within which the project is
located.
            (8)   Utility easements.
            (9)   Proposed lotting and footprints of all nonresidential
structures.
            (10)   Maximum lot coverage by buildings and other impervious
surfaces, for all uses within the planned development.
            (11)   Off street parking and loading areas, including number and
dimensions of parking spaces, drive aisles, and loading zones.
            (12)   Configuration and acreage of all land proposed to be
dedicated as open space and all sites to be conveyed, dedicated, or reserved
for parks, playgrounds, school sites, public buildings, and similar public and
quasi-public uses.
            (13)   Pedestrian and/or bicycle circulation systems.
            (14)   Proposed phasing of the development.
            (15)   Location of trash bins and enclosures for all multiple-
family residential and nonresidential uses, if any.
            (16)   All other information determined necessary by the plan
commission to clearly show the proposed elements of the planned development.
         c.   Grading Plan: The grading plan shall show both existing and
proposed contours and elevations and shall identify all areas proposed for
excavation and/or filling of the property.
         d.   Tree Survey And Preservation Plan: The tree survey and
preservation plan shall be superimposed on the grading plan, and shall include
the following:
            (1)   Location of existing trees greater than six inches (6") in
caliper, as measured twelve inches (12") above grade.
            (2)   Species of existing trees greater than six inches (6") in
caliper, as measured twelve inches (12") above grade.
            (3)   Base elevation of existing trees greater than six inches (6")
in caliper, as measured twelve inches (12") above grade.
         e.   Landscape Plan: The landscape plan shall be superimposed on the
grading plan, and shall include the following:
            (1)   Any proposed fences, walls, berms and entry monuments.
            (2)   Contours for any landscaped berms.
            (3)   One or more sections through the site to illustrate the
relationship between the landscape materials, the land form, proposed
buildings, and nearby properties.
            (4)   Location of all trees and shrubs, keyed into a plant list
that identifies species, sizes and quantities for proposed plantings.
            (5)   Method of screening trash collection facilities and
enclosures.
            (6)   Utility and public drainage easements.
         f.   Photometric Plan: The photometric plan shall be superimposed on
the site plan, for all nonresidential planned development, and shall:
            (1)   Identify the location and heights of all light standards.
            (2)   Identify foot-candle intensities on the site of the planned
development, and ten feet (10') beyond proposed property lines.
            (3)   Include specifications for proposed lighting, including
wattage, method of illumination, and color of light standards and luminaries.
         g.   Development Schedule: A development schedule shall be submitted
which addresses the following:
            (1)   Approximate dates for initiating project construction.
            (2)   Phasing, and anticipated date of completion for public
improvements for each phase.
            (3)   The area and location of open space and other recreational
areas to be provided with each phase.
            (4)   The mix of uses proposed for implementation within each phase
of a mixed use planned development.
         h.   Architectural Drawings: Preliminary architectural drawings for
all primary buildings shall be submitted that include the following:
            (1)   Typical elevations (front, rear and side) for proposed
residential and nonresidential buildings, which identify materials and color
styling proposed for all exterior elements of the building.
            (2)   Gross floor area for all nonresidential buildings.
            (3)   Minimum habitable floor areas for residential buildings,
excluding garages, basements, porches and patios.
            (4)   Proposed building heights.
            (5)   Roof plan for all nonresidential structures that shows the
proposed location and top elevation of all roof mounted mechanical equipment.
            (6)   Cross sections of all nonresidential structures that show the
relation of the roof structure and/or parapet wall to the proposed roof mounted
mechanical equipment.
         i.   Proposed Covenants: Proposed covenants shall be prepared and
submitted which include the following:
            (1)   Architectural controls for residential dwellings, including:
               (A)   Minimum floor area, excluding garages, basements, porches
and patios.
               (B)   Maximum lot coverage, as defined by this title.
               (C)   Minimum yards.
               (D)   Materials.
               (E)   Antimonotony code.
               (F)   Landscaping for individual lots.
               (G)   Maintenance of common facilities.
            (2)   Tenant sign controls for all nonresidential, multi-tenant
developments.
            (3)   Provisions for dedication and maintenance of all open space,
such as preservation and recreation areas, as well as other public and/or
semipublic areas including, but not limited to, entryway and cul-de-sac open
space/landscaping.
         j.   Utility Plan: A proposed utility plan shall be superimposed on
the proposed site plan and shall show the following:
            (1)   Approximate location and dimensions of all sanitary sewer,
storm sewer, and water lines.
            (2)   Drainage ditches, culverts, water retention areas, and
utility easements.
            (3)   Written documentation from the petitioner's engineer
attesting to the capability of existing water and sewer systems to service the
proposed development.
         k.   Traffic Impact Study: A traffic study, prepared by a professional
engineer licensed in the state, when deemed appropriate by the village manager
shall be submitted to:
            (1)   Identify anticipated volumes of traffic to be generated by
each phase of the planned development.
            (2)   Identify required public roadway improvements and/or traffic
regulation devices needed to ensure the proper safety of traffic to, through
and around the planned development.
         l.   Written Statement: A written statement shall be submitted by the
petitioner that describes the following:
            (1)   Why the petitioner is processing the project as a planned
development.
            (2)   How the proposed planned development meets the objectives of
the comprehensive development plan and the purpose statement of this article.
            (3)   How the project is compatible with adjacent development or
planned land uses.
            (4)   How the project will economically benefit or otherwise affect
the village, including information regarding additional public facilities and/
or services that will be needed as a result of the proposed project.
            (5)   A comprehensive list of all requested exceptions to
applicable village ordinances.
         m.   School/Park: The petitioner shall prepare an estimate of land
and/or cash that will be required for the development, based on title 11,
chapter 6 this code, as amended from time to time.
         n.   Other: The plan commission may also require preparation and
submittal of the following for review and evaluation, in accordance with title
11, chapter 6 of this code, as amended from time to time:
            (1)   Tax impact study, detailing the estimated cost which the
planned development will have on all taxing bodies, and anticipated revenues
which will be realized from each phase of development.
            (2)   A projected school population study, in accordance with
estimating the number of students, by age group, that will be generated by the
development.
            (3)   Other information that is deemed necessary for evaluation of
the proposed development in comparison with village plans, policies, ordinances
and existing conditions.
      5.   Public Hearing: A public hearing shall be required and held in
accordance with section
10-11-6 of this title.
      6.   Plan Commission's Recommendation: After the close of the public
hearing, the plan commission shall recommend approval or denial of the proposed
planned development. The recommendation, which may include conditions of
approval intended for incorporation into final plans and supporting
documentation, shall be submitted to the village board prior to any action by
the village board on the planned development application.
      7.   Statement Of Findings Of Fact: The plan commission chair shall
submit a written findings of fact to the village board in accordance with
subsection 10-10-4D of this chapter. The statement of findings of fact shall
specify in what respects the proposed planned development would, or would not
be in the public interest, and shall, at a minimum, address the following:
         a.   The extent to which the proposed planned development departs from
the zoning, subdivision regulations or planned development standards otherwise
applicable to the subject property and the reasons why such departures are in
the public interest.
         b.   The compatibility of the proposed planned development with
adjacent properties and neighborhoods.
         c.   The desirability of the proposed planned development, or lack
thereof, for the village's tax base and economic well being.
         d.   The adequacy of the physical design and methods by which the
proposed planned development would:
            (1)   Make provisions for public utilities and services.
            (2)   Provide adequate control over vehicular traffic.
            (3)   Provide for and protect designated open space and drainage
systems.
         e.   Compatibility with the comprehensive development plan and the
goals and policies for planning within the village.
      8.   Village Board Review: Village board review of the proposed planned
development shall be conducted in accordance with subsection 10-10-4F of this
chapter.
      9.   Action By The Village Board:
         a.   The village board shall approve, approve with modifications, or
disapprove the special use for planned development and preliminary plan for the
proposed planned development.
         b.   The preliminary plan may be referred back to the plan commission
for additional review of specified items, by motion of the village board.
         c.   If the preliminary plan and special use are approved, the village
board shall prepare a planned development ordinance for the preliminary plan.
The ordinance shall identify all applicable exhibits and support documentation
upon which village board action is based, and shall include any conditions of
approval.
   D.   Final Plan:
      1.   Process:
         a.   Within eighteen (18) months of the adoption of the planned
development ordinance, the petitioner shall file all required final plan
submittals for applicable phases of construction with the village manager. The
submittal shall address all conditions of approval that are set forth in the
preliminary plans and development ordinance.
         b.   The request for final approval of a planned development shall be
submitted to the village manager. Upon receipt of all required submittals, the
village manager will forward the request to the plan commission for its review
and recommendation. Final plan approval may be obtained in phases, in
accordance with the petitioner's development schedule.
         c.   Final plats of subdivision may be processed along with the final
plan submittal in accordance with title 11 of this code.
            (1)   Final plan submittals shall demonstrate compliance with the
planned development ordinance. The petitioner shall file eighteen (18) copies
of plans and other required supporting documentation with the village manager.
Once all required drawings and information have been received, the village
manager shall distribute the final plan submittal to the plan commission and to
other designated reviewers.
            (2)   Required plans and documentation shall be submitted no later
than fifteen (15) working days before the next scheduled meeting of the plan
commission to assure adequate time for review.
      2.   Submittals: Required submittals shall include, but not necessarily
be limited to, the following (as applicable):
         a.   An accurate legal description of the entire area under immediate
development within the planned development, including the name of the proposed
development to be recorded on the planned development special use permit and
the final plat recorded with the county.
         b.   A final site plan that includes the following:
            (1)   Identification of all use areas, including open space;
            (2)   Approved building setbacks and separation;
            (3)   Footprints of all nonresidential buildings; and
            (4)   The name of the proposed development to be recorded on the
planned development special use permit and the final plat recorded with the
county.
            (5)   An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided
use area, such as open space and greenbelts.
            (6)   Tabulations of each use area, including land area, and number
of dwelling units per acre, if any.
            (7)   Final landscape plan, superimposed on a grading plan.
            (8)   Final utilities and drainage plan.
            (9)   Final agreements, bylaws, provisions, or covenants that
govern the use, maintenance, and continued protection of the planned
development and its open space, greenbelts, or other recreational facilities.
            (10)   Final development and construction schedule.
            (11)   Detailed elevations of buildings.
            (12)   Final engineering drawings.
            (13)   A certificate from the county which documents that no
delinquent taxes exist, and that all special assessments constituting a lien on
the whole or any part of the property of the planned development have been
paid.
         c.   A written statement verifying that the final plans meet all
applicable standards of the DuPage County stormwater management ordinance, as
well as all other county, state and federal requirements.
      3.   Final Plan Process: The final plan shall be processed as follows:
         a.   The plan commission shall review the final plan and plat
submittal at a public meeting, and shall recommend approval if it is in
substantial compliance with the planned development ordinance. The plan
commission recommendation may include such additional conditions as may be
appropriate, based on the final documentation submitted.
         b.   If the final plan and plat are substantially different from the
approved preliminary plan, the plan commission shall either:
            (1)   Recommend disapproval of the final plan submittal; or
            (2)   Recommend to the village board that a new public hearing be
held in conformance with the procedures established for approval of a
preliminary plan.
         c.   With a recommendation of approval, the plan commission shall
submit to the village board, a written statement of findings of fact and
recommendations that:
            (1)   Confirms that final plan submittals are in conformity with
the planned development ordinance; and
            (2)   Identifies any additional conditions of approval.
         d.   Village board approval of the final development plan shall be by
ordinance. If the village board determines that the final development plan
shall be disapproved, it shall do so by a motion of the board. In lieu of
denial, the village board may grant the petitioner additional time to remedy
any deficiencies.
         e.   No plats shall be recorded, and no building permits issued, until
final plan submittals have been approved by the village board. Final plats
shall be recorded by the petitioner within thirty (30) days of the date of
final plan approval.
   E.   Guarantees: In all cases where special use permits for a planned
development are granted, the village board shall require such evidence and
guarantees as it may determine necessary as proof of present and continued
compliance with the conditions stipulated in connection with the planned
development. (Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999)
10-10A-7: CHANGES IN THE PLANNED DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   The planned development shall be implemented only according to the
approved final plan approval ordinance and final plats of subdivision shall be
recorded, as applicable, for the planned development. The recorded final plats
and supporting data, together with all recorded documents and amendments, if
any, shall be binding on the owners, successors, heirs, and assigns.
   B.   Changes to an approved planned development may be made as either major,
minor or incidental field changes and the classification of a proposed change
shall be determined by the village manager and approved by the village board in
accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   Major Changes:
         a.   Changes that alter the concept or intent of the planned
development may be approved by the village board only by submission of a new
final plan and final plats of subdivision for the planned development. All
revisions shall be reviewed by the plan commission at a public hearing.
         b.   Major changes include, but are not limited to, the following:
            (1)   Increases in density.
            (2)   Increases in the heights of buildings.
            (3)   Reductions in approved open space areas or facilities.
            (4)   Modifications to the approved uses, and a change by more than
ten percent (10%) in the acreage allocated to each use.
            (5)   Rearrangement of lots, blocks, and building tracts.
         c.   Major changes which are approved for the final planned
development shall be recorded as amendments to the recorded copy of the final
plat of subdivision(s).
      2.   Minor Changes: Minor changes may be approved by the village board,
after review and recommendation of the plan commission at a public meeting,
provided said changes do not alter the spirit and intent of the approved
planned development. Minor changes include the following:
         a.   Minor modifications to the location of buildings, provided all
setbacks established for the planned development are met.
         b.   Minor changes to the location and configuration of streets and
rights of way that are made to preserve natural features.
         c.   Minor changes to the location, configuration or size of approved
open space areas or facilities, due to circumstances that were not foreseen at
the time the final plans were approved.
         d.   Minor changes to the location, configuration or size of approved
easements.
      3.   Incidental Field Changes: Incidental field changes may be approved
by the village manager, after review by appropriate village and/or consultant
staff.
   C.   The village board shall be the final authority on the determination of
the classification of proposed changes to an approved planned development as
either a major, minor or incidental change. (Ord. 99-12-16, 12-16-1999)
CHAPTER 11
ZONING ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-11-1: Administration Of Provisions
10-11-1-1: Zoning Administrator
10-11-1-2:  Zoning Board Of Appeals (Rep. by Ord. 2019-06-11, 6-20-2019)
10-11-1-3: Plan And Zoning Commission
10-11-2: Zoning Certification
10-11-3: Variations
10-11-4: Appeals
10-11-5: Amendments
10-11-6: Public Hearing Procedures
10-11-7: Fees
10-11-8: Penalties
10-11-1: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The administration of this title is hereby vested in the following, with duties
as hereinafter prescribed:
   Zoning administrator
   Plan and zoning commission
   Village board of trustees (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2019-06-11,
6-20-2019)
10-11-1-1: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The village manager or his designee is designated as the
zoning administrator of this chapter.
   B.   Duties: The zoning administrator shall:
      1.   Receive applications required and issue any permits and certificates
required by this title including certificates of occupancy.
      2.   Examine premises for which permits have been issued and make
necessary inspections to determine compliance.
      3.   When requested by the president and the board of trustees, or when
the interest of the village so requires, make investigations and render written
reports.
      4.   Issue such notices or orders as may be necessary.
      5.   Adopt rules and procedures consistent with this title.
      6.   Keep careful and comprehensive records of applications, permits,
certificates, inspections, reports, notices, orders and other documents
relative to the administration of this title.
      7.   Keep all such records open for public inspection at reasonable
hours, but not for removal from his office.
      8.   Inform the village manager of all violations and all other matters
requiring prosecution or legal action.
      9.   Discharge such other duties as may be placed upon the zoning
administrator by this title.
      10.   Require that applicants for subdivisions and planned unit
developments provide both paper and electronic copies (in both ArcGIS and
AutoCad formats) of all preliminary plans, engineering, landscaping and as
built/final drawings. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010)
10-11-1-2: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2019-06-11, 6-20-2019)
10-11-1-3: PLAN AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A. Duties And Authority: The plan and zoning commission shall have the
following duties and responsibilities:
      1.   To initiate, review, make recommendations and submit reports to the
village board regarding amendments to the comprehensive development plan 1 ,
zoning ordinance and zoning map, and land subdivision ordinance 2 , in the
manner prescribed in this title.
      2.   To review special uses, planned developments and proposed plats of
subdivision within the jurisdiction of the village, make recommendations, and
submit reports to the village board in the manner prescribed in this title.
      3.   To review and make recommendations to the village board regarding
proposed site plans of development applications received by the zoning
administrator.
      4.   To act on all other matters which are referred to it by the village
board or as may be required by the provisions of this title or other applicable
law.
      5.   To hear and decide on appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the zoning administrator and
other provisions of this title.
      6.   To hear and review applications for variations from the regulations
from this title in harmony with its general purpose and intent and in the
manner prescribed in this chapter for variations. After proper notice of any
required public hearing, the plan and zoning commission shall submit reports
and recommendations thereon to the village board in the manner prescribed in
section
10-11-3 of this chapter.
      7.   To hold public hearings and prepare reports including findings of
fact and recommendations to the village board and all other matters including
certain special uses referred to it by the village board or upon which it is
required to pass under this title.
      8.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
plan and zoning commission the power or authority to alter or change the zoning
ordinance or the zoning map, such power and authority being reserved to the
village board in the manner herein provided in this title. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-
1-2010; amd. Ord. 2019-06-11, 6-20-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-2-6 of this code.
2 2. See title 11 of this code.
10-11-2: ZONING CERTIFICATION:
No permit, as required by the building code of the village 1 , shall be issued
until the zoning administrator certifies in such permit that no zoning
violation will be caused by the building, structure or land improvement for
which the permit is sought. Any permit or certificate issued in conflict with
the provisions of this title shall be null and void. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010)
 
Notes
1 3. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
10-11-3: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Authority: The plan and zoning commission shall recommend variations of
the provisions of this title in harmony with its general purpose and intent,
and shall recommend them only in the specific instances hereinafter set forth
where the plan and zoning commission shall have made a finding of fact based
upon the standards hereinafter prescribed that there are practical difficulties
or particular hardship in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
regulations of this title.
   B.   Initiation: An application for a variation may be made by anyone
requesting or intending to apply for a building permit or occupancy
certificate. If the applicant is not the owner of the property, then the
owner's approval is also required on the application.
   C.   Required Application Submittals And Processing: An application for a
variation shall be filed with the zoning administrator on a form provided by
the village. The application shall include, at a minimum:
      1.   Legal description and common address of subject property;
      2.   Current plat of survey locating lot lines and all existing
structures;
      3.   Existing zoning of property and within two hundred feet (200');
      4.   Proposed variation;
      5.   Ownership of record and/or disclosure of other beneficial interest;
      6.   Written statement explaining the circumstances by which the subject
property meets the three (3) criteria for a hardship as prescribed in
subsection F of this section; and
      7.   Other information as may be required by the zoning administrator,
the plan commission and village board to address the request.
   D.   Public Hearing: A public hearing is required and shall be conducted in
accordance with section
10-11-6 of this chapter.
   E.   Findings Of Fact And Recommendations: No variation shall be approved by
the village board until a public hearing before the plan and zoning commission
has been held and a report of the plan and zoning commission’s findings and
recommendations has been submitted to the village board, in accordance with
state statutes and section
10-11-6 of this chapter.
   F.   Standards For Variations:
      1.   The plan and zoning commission shall not recommend variation of the
provisions of this title as authorized in this section, unless it shall have
made findings based upon the evidence presented to it as follows:
         a.   That the property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations
governing the district in which it is located;
         b.   That the plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
         c.   That the variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
      2.   A variation shall be recommended only if the evidence, in the
judgment of the board of appeals, sustains each of the three (3) conditions
enumerated above.
      3.   For the purpose of supplementing the above standards, the zoning
board of appeals, in making this determination whenever there are practical
difficulties or particular hardships, shall also take into consideration the
extent to which the following facts, favorable to the applicant, have been
established by the evidence:
         a.   That the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved will bring a particular hardship
upon the owner as distinguished from an inconvenience if the strict letter of
the regulations were to be carried out;
         b.   That the conditions upon which the petition for variation is
based may not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
         c.   That the purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property;
         d.   That the alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by
any person having an interest in the property;
         e.   That the granting of the variation shall not be detrimental to
the public welfare or unduly injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; or
         f.   That the proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of
fire, or otherwise endanger the public safety or substantially diminish or
impair property values within the neighborhood.
      4.   The plan and zoning commission may require all conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary to
comply with the standards set forth in this section to reduce or minimize the
effect of such variation upon other property in the neighborhood, and to
implement the general purpose and intent of this title.
   G.   Authorized Variations: Variations from the regulations of this title
may be granted by the village board to permit the minimum necessary variation
in bulk standards, parking requirements or other standards of this title to
alleviate a hardship to a landowner, as determined by subsection F of this
section.
   H.   Granting Of Variance; Ordinance Contents:
      1.   Without further public hearing, the village board may grant, deny or
amend the recommendation for variation. Every variation which is granted by
ordinance of the village board shall be accompanied by findings of fact and
shall refer to any exhibits containing plans and specifications for the
proposed variation which shall remain a part of the permanent records of the
zoning board of appeals. The findings of fact shall specify the reason for
granting the variation.
      2.   The terms of relief granted shall be specifically set forth in a
conclusion or statement separate from the findings of fact of the ordinance.
   I.   Time Limit For Granted Variation: It is the intent of the village board
that a variation granted in accordance with this title be acted upon within
twelve (12) months after the passage of the ordinance granting the variation.
If, therefore, within that twelve (12) month period, neither a building permit
nor an occupancy permit has been obtained, then the zoning administrator shall
apply to the village board to rescind the ordinance granting the variation, and
the trustees shall either rescind the variation or extend it for a specified
period for further actions. If a timely building permit is obtained but
construction is not commenced while the permit is valid, then such application
for rescission shall likewise be made. Written notice of the date for any
actions to rescind shall be sent to the applicant for the variation at the last
known address of said applicant. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2019-06-
11, 6-20-2019)
10-11-4: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority: The plan and zoning commission shall hear and decide appeals
from an administrative order, requirement or determination under this title,
made by the zoning administrator and brought by anyone affected thereby.
   B.   Initiation: The appeal shall be taken within forty five (45) days after
the decision or action complained of by filing with the village at the village
hall during regular business hours, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. The zoning administrator from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the plan and zoning commission all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed was taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the zoning administrator certifies to the plan
and zoning commission, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him, that
by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In this event the proceedings shall
not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
plan and zoning commission.
   D.   Public Hearing: On appeal, the decision of the zoning administrator
shall be affirmed or reversed by the village board only after a public hearing
before the plan and zoning commission and a report of its findings and
recommendations has been submitted to the village board, in accordance with
section 10-11-6 of this chapter.
   E.   Decisions: The plan and zoning commission shall reach its decision
within forty five (45) days from the date of the public hearing of the appeal.
The village board may affirm or may reverse, wholly or in part, or modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination that, in its opinion, ought to be
done and to that end, shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken. The zoning administrator shall maintain records of all actions
of the plan and zoning commission relative to appeals. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010; amd. Ord. 2019-06-11, 6-20-2019)
10-11-5: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety and
general welfare, conserving the value of property throughout the community and
lessening or avoiding congestion in the public streets and highways, the
village board may, from time to time, in the manner hereinafter set forth,
amend the regulations imposed in the districts created by this title or amend
district boundary lines; provided, that in all amendatory ordinances adopted
under the authority of this section, due allowance shall be made for existing
conditions, the conservation of property values, the comprehensive development
plan, the direction of building development to the best advantage of the entire
community, and the uses to which property is devoted at the same time of the
adoption of such amendatory ordinance.
   B.   Initiation:
      1.   Text Amendments: Text amendments may be proposed by the village
president, the village board, the plan and zoning commission or other
commission designated by the village board. Notice shall be given of the time
and place of the public hearing, not more than thirty (30) nor less than
fifteen (15) days before the hearing, by publishing a notice at least once in
one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the village.
      2.   Zoning Map Amendments (Rezonings): Zoning map amendments may be
proposed by the village president, the village board, the plan and zoning
commission or other commission designated by the village board, or by the
property owner of the subject property.
   C.   Required Application Submittals And Processing: An application for an
amendment shall be filed with the zoning administrator on a form provided by
the zoning administrator accompanied by such information as may be prescribed.
Copies of such application shall be forwarded to the plan and zoning commission
with a request to hold a public hearing thereon. The application shall include,
at a minimum:
      1.   Legal description and common address of subject property;
      2.   Current plat of survey that reflects current lot corners, lot lines
and all existing structures;
      3.   Existing zoning on subject property and within two hundred fifty
feet (250');
      4.   Proposed zoning and land use of the subject property;
      5.   Ownership of record and/or disclosure of other beneficial interest;
and
      6.   Other information as may be required by the plan commission or
village board to make a recommendation on the request.
   D.   Public Hearing: No amendment shall be approved by the village board
until after a public hearing before the plan commission has been held and a
report of its findings and recommendations has been submitted to the village
board in accordance with state statutes and section
10-11-6 of this chapter.
   E.   Findings Of Fact And Recommendations:
      1.   The plan and zoning commission shall prepare and submit written
findings of fact and recommendations and shall submit same together with its
recommendation to the village board in accordance with section
10-11-6 of this chapter. Where the purpose and effect of the proposed amendment
is to change the zoning classification of a particular property, the plan and
zoning commission shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it
in each specific case with respect to the following:
         a.   Compatibility with surrounding land uses and the general area;
         b.   The zoning classification of property within the general area of
the property in question;
         c.   The suitability of the subject property to the uses permitted
under the existing zoning classification;
         d.   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
subject property including recent changes, if any, which have taken place in
its zoning classification; and
         e.   The relationship of the existing zoning classification to the
comprehensive development plan of Winfield.
   F.   Standards For Amendments: The plan and zoning commission shall not
recommend the adoption of a proposed amendment unless it finds that the
adoption of such amendment is in the public interest and is not solely for the
interest of the applicant; and that either the proposed amendment will correct
an existing error or that changing conditions make the proposed amendment
necessary.
   G.   Action By The Village Board:
      1.   The village board may grant or deny an application for an amendment;
provided, however, that in case of a written protest against any proposed
amendment of the regulations or district, signed and acknowledged by the owners
of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or across
an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage
directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with the clerk
of the village, or if the plan and zoning commission, by a majority vote of
those members present, has recommended against such amendment (a tie vote is
not to be considered a recommendation against an amendment), the amendment
shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the
village trustees then holding office. In such cases, a copy of the written
protest shall be served by the protestor or protestors on the applicant for the
proposed amendment and a copy upon the applicant's attorney, if any, by
certified mail at the address of such applicant and attorney shown in the
application for the proposed amendment.
      2.   If an application for a proposed amendment is not acted upon finally
by the village board within ninety (90) days of the date the board receives the
plan and zoning commission’s recommendations, and such time is not extended by
mutual consent of the village board and petitioner, it shall be deemed to have
been denied.
   H.   Effect Of Denial Of Amendment: No application for a zoning map
amendment that has been denied by the village board shall be resubmitted for a
period of one year from the date of the order of denial, except on the grounds
of new evidence or proof of change of condition found to be valid by the plan
commission and the village board.
   I.   Repeal Of Amendment: In any case where a change of boundary lines or
zoning classification of the official zoning map has been granted, and where no
development has taken place within two (2) years, the plan and zoning
commission may recommend to the village board that such zoning be affirmed or
repealed and rezoned to its most appropriate district classification in
accordance with the procedures hereunder for amendments. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010; amd. Ord. 2019-06-11, 6-20-2019)
10-11-6: PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Recommending And Legislative Body Review: All matters requiring a
recommendation from the plan and zoning commission including, but not limited
to, zoning ordinance text amendments, zoning map amendments, comprehensive
development plan amendments and/or updates, zoning variances and special use
permits (including planned developments), shall require a public hearing and
receive such required recommendation in writing prior to appearance before the
village board for final approval.
   B.   Public Notice For Text Amendments And Zoning Map Amendments (Rezoning)
Done In Conjunction With Comprehensive Updates Or Comprehensive Text Changes To
The Zoning Ordinance: Notice shall be given of the time and place of the public
hearing, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the
hearing, by publishing a notice at least once in one or more newspapers with a
general circulation within the village.
   C.   Public Notice For Variances, Special Use Permits And Zoning Map
Amendments (Rezoning) Not Done In Conjunction With Comprehensive Updates Or
Comprehensive Text Changes To The Zoning Ordinance:
      1.   Within forty five (45) days of receipt by the zoning administrator
of all required application information and payment of any required fees, the
plan commission or zoning board of appeals, as appropriate shall hold a public
hearing on such application at a time and place as shall be established by
legal notice of hearing by the chairperson. The hearing shall be conducted and
a transcript of the proceedings shall be preserved in accordance with rules
prescribed by the plan and zoning commission.
      2.   Notice of the time, place and topic (including the address of the
subject property, if applicable) of such public hearing shall be made known to
the public in the following manner:
         a.   Petitioner/Property Owner:
            (1)   The petitioner and/or property owner shall, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, notify all property owners within two hundred
fifty feet (250') in all directions of the subject property, as recorded with
the county recorder of deeds. Said notices shall be mailed out not more than
thirty (30), nor less than fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing.
            (2)   The petitioner and/or property owner shall file a sworn
affidavit with the village manager that confirms that notices have been sent as
required, and include a copy of the notice and the names and addresses of all
to whom notices have been sent. All certified mailing return receipts shall be
submitted at the public hearing or, prior to the public hearing date, to the
village manager.
            (3)   The petitioner/property owner shall provide notice of the
public hearing by erecting at least one, but no more than four (4) signs to be
furnished by the applicant at his or her own cost on the land which is the
subject of the application, as follows:
               (A)   The applicant shall erect the sign or signs required by
this subsection at least fifteen (15), but not more than thirty (30) days prior
to said public hearing and shall remove said sign(s) within one week after the
public hearing date specified on the sign(s). In no event shall said signs be
removed prior to or on the date for the public hearing specified on the sign(s)
unless the application is withdrawn.
               (B)   The face of the sign required by this subsection shall be
at least thirty six inches (36") in height and forty eight inches (48") in
length and shall read as follows:
   PUBLIC NOTICE
This land is being considered for
                                                                                                                 
A public hearing will be held on,                  at               P.M. in the
Winfield Village Hall, 27W465 Jewell Road, Winfield, Illinois. For information
call the Village Manager at (630) 933-7100.
Plan and Zoning Commission
Village of Winfield
Said sign(s) shall have a white background with one and one-half inch (11/2")
high black letters, except that the words "Public Notice" shall be in three
inch (3") high, red capital letters.
               (C)   The sign shall be removed by the applicant no later than
seven (7) days after the completion of the public hearing. Should the applicant
fail to comply with this regulation, the village may remove the sign and charge
the applicant for such removal or deduct the cost of the removal from the
applicant's escrow account.
               (D)   Upon submission of an application, the village manager
shall designate the place or places on the land where said sign(s) is required
to be erected, taking into consideration the location of land, the location of
public streets, roads, rights of way and other means of access to the land, the
placement of nearby buildings, and the topography of the land.
         b.   Village:
            (1)   The village shall publish the notice, at least once, in one
or more newspapers published within the village, or if no newspaper is
published in the village, then in one or more newspapers with a general
circulation within the village which is published in DuPage County.
            (2)   Other supplemental or additional notices may be distributed,
published or posted as required by the village board.
         c.   Content Of Public Hearing Notice: The notice of a public hearing
shall, at a minimum, include the following:
            (1)   The time, place and purpose of the public hearing.
            (2)   A legal description of the subject property, if applicable.
            (3)   The address or common name of the subject property.
            (4)   The name of the petitioner(s).
            (5)   A description of the petitioner's request including, but not
limited to, the requested amendment, variance or special use permit.
            (6)   For planned developments, a description of the development,
including, but not limited to, the acreage of the property, the proposed mix of
uses, and the number and types of dwelling units, if any, and the types and
square footage of nonresidential uses, if any.
            (7)   For planned developments, identification of requested
exceptions from all applicable village ordinance standards.
         d.   Conduct Of The Public Hearing:
            (1)   The petitioner shall enter all plans, drawings and other
support documentation into the record as official exhibits, and shall
demonstrate compliance with the notice of public hearing, notice of surrounding
property owners and posting of the subject property.
            (2)   The hearing may be continued by the plan and zoning
commission or village board from time to time, during which time drawings and
support documentation may be revised and resubmitted at the request of either
the reviewing body or the petitioner.
            (3)   The plan and zoning commission and village board shall, to
the best extent possible, adhere to the following procedures for zoning
ordinance and map amendments, plan reviews, zoning variances and other zoning
matters requiring appearance before a village elected or appointed body:
               (A)   Applicant/petitioner presentation of proposal;
               (B)   Reports and/or comments by village staff;
               (C)   Citizen (public) comments;
               (D)   Elected or appointed village body questions and
discussion; and
               (E)   Elected or appointed village body vote or other action.
These procedures are considered advisory only and may be varied by the plan and
zoning commission Chair at any time.
            (4)   Applicant/petitioner and citizen (public) questions and
comments shall be directed solely to the Plan and Zoning Commission Chair,
unless otherwise directed by said Chair, so that the Plan and Zoning Commission
Chair may moderate the discussion to ensure, to the best extent possible, an
orderly and fair hearing or meeting.
            (5)   To assist the applicable Village elected or appointed body in
making an informed recommendation, decision and/or vote, Village staff shall
provide additional comments and presentation to assist those applicants or
citizens (public) who have difficulty in adequately conveying all relevant
facts related to the petition.
   D.   Findings Of Fact And Recommendation: For all matters requiring a
recommendation from the Plan and Zoning Commission, the Chair shall prepare
written findings of fact and recommendations for submission to the Village
Board within forty five (45) days following the date of the public hearing on
each application, unless said application is withdrawn or tabled by the
petitioner. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2019-06-11, 6-20-2019)
10-11-7: FEES 1 :
   A.   The Village Board shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses for zoning certificates, occupancy certificates, appeals, application
for amendments or special use and other matters pertaining to this title. The
schedule of fees shall be posted in the Office of the Village Clerk and may be
altered or amended by the Village Board.
   B.   Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full,
no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. (Ord. 2010-04-07, 4-1-
2010; amd. Ord. 2019-06-11, 6-20-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-7-5 of this Code.
10-11-8: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist after notification thereof shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
2019-02-01, 2-7-2019; amd. Ord. 2019-06-11, 6-20-2019)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, JURISDICTION, INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-4: Interpretation
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title to be known as the VILLAGE OF WINFIELD SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. (Ord.
2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   To promote the public health, safety, and general welfare; to conserve,
protect, and enhance property values; to preserve the natural beauty and
topography of the Village and surrounding areas; to secure the most efficient
use of land; and to facilitate the adequate development of public improvements;
   B.   To provide for orderly growth and development; to afford adequate
facilities for the safe and efficient movement of traffic; to safeguard against
flood damage; and to guide and time the sequence of future growth and
development in accordance with the official Comprehensive Master Plan and in
accordance with the financial ability of the Village to provide essential off
site public services and capital improvements;
   C.   To prescribe rules and regulations governing the subdivision and
platting of land; the preparation of plats; the location, width and course of
streets and highways; the installation of utilities, street pavements and other
essential improvements; and for the provision of necessary public grounds for
schools, parks, playgrounds, and other public open space;
   D.   To establish procedures for the submission, consideration, approval,
and recording of plats, improvement plans; and to provide the means for
enforcement. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
Whenever any subdivision, resubdivision, or planned unit development of land,
including special uses, shall hereafter be planned within the incorporated
limits of the Village of Winfield or within one and one-half (11/2) miles of
the incorporated boundary of the Village of Winfield, said plans, proposed
improvements and all procedures relating thereon shall in all respects be in
full compliance with the regulations hereinafter contained in this title.
All lands to be dedicated to the Village for use as streets, highways,
easements, parks, stormwater management and other public purposes, shall be
referred to the Village Engineer before being accepted by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion and effectuation of the
purposes set forth in section
11-1-2 of this chapter.
Nothing herein shall repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way interfere with any
provision of law, rules or regulations other than the subdivision regulations
aforesaid, and then only to the extent stated herein. Where this title imposes
greater restrictions or requirements than one imposed or required by other
provisions of laws, rules, regulations, covenants or agreements between
parties, this title shall take precedence, unless the other provisions impose
restrictions greater than those imposed by this title; provided, however, that
said easements, covenants, deed restrictions or agreements, in all respects,
conform to the minimum provisions herein contained. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-
2017)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: General Application
11-2-2: Rules
11-2-3: Definitions
11-2-1: GENERAL APPLICATION:
In the application of these regulations, the rules and definitions contained in
this chapter shall be observed and applied, except where the context clearly
indicates otherwise. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-2-2: RULES:
   A.   Words in the present tense shall include the future, and words in the
singular include the plural, and the plural the singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory, not discretionary.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter. (Ord. 2015-02-
05, 2-5-2015)
11-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of this title,
its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition thereof; and any
word appearing in parenthesis directly after a word herein defined shall be
construed in the same sense as that word.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets,
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shorelines of waterways, or
corporate boundary lines of the village of Winfield.
BUILDABLE LAND: Gross acreage of parcel minus all floodplain and wetland areas
as defined by current comprehensive plan.
BUILDING: Any roofed structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons; when divided into separate parts by unpierced
walls extending from the ground up, each part is a separate building.
BUILDING SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a right of way line
and the nearest wall in a building or side of a structure facing such street
line or edge of the area of operation of a principal use when no building or
structure is involved.
COMMON OWNERSHIP: Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership, or unincorporated association; or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities, or unincorporated associations, in
which a stockholder, partner, or associate, or a member of his or her family
owns an interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity, or
unincorporated association.
CONCEPT PLAN: A drawing or any other accompanying information which shows
existing and proposed development conditions as described in this title.
CORINGS: Examination and analysis of the completed surface and/or subsurface of
a finished pavement structure by removing a core of said pavement structure by
drilling.
CRITICAL PARCEL OR LOT: Parcels or lots on which the grading is critical to
drainage on adjacent property and those parcels or lots containing or adjacent
to a stormwater overflow route or those parcels containing or adjacent to an
intermittent stormwater flow route. Designation of each critical parcel or lot
shall be noted on the preliminary engineering plan, final engineering grading
and drainage overlay. Proposed and final lot grading plan shall be required by
the builder for review and approval.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street of short length having only one outlet and having a
suitable turnaround terminus for safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement.
CURB: The permanent edge of a paved surface designed to separate the vehicular
traffic from the parkway.
DATUM PLANE: A reference level from which ground elevations are based. The
datum plane shall be tied to the North American vertical datum of 1988 (NAVD
88) of the national spatial reference system (NSRS) as maintained by the United
States national geodetic survey (NGS).
DETENTION BASIN: A normally dry bottom stormwater storage area that is designed
to temporarily store water only when excess stormwater runoff occurs.
DEVELOPER: Any person, firm, or an entity who either applies for, or is
actually subdividing land, erecting structures on land, or causing any
improvements to be made to land, including the reconfiguration of the land
surface. The term "developer" also includes an owner of such land, a
subdivider, builder, or any other person, firm, or other entity having an
interest in such land. Developer must have a demonstrated contractual interest
in the land.
DEVELOPMENT: The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation or
enlargement of any structure; any mining, excavation, landfill or land
disturbance, and any use or extension of the use of land.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person for a specific purpose or
purposes.
ELEVATIONS: The vertical distance measured from a point on the ground to the
datum plane.
FINAL PLAT: The plan or plat of subdivision intended for recording, and any
accompanying material as described herein.
FLOOD FRINGE: That area in the floodplain either side of the floodway where
flow velocities are low or zero.
FLOOD ROUTE: The overland route that floodwaters would naturally flow through a
site.
FLOODPLAIN: Those areas along rivers and streams subject to periodic flooding.
The floodplain is defined by the flood boundary and floodway map prepared by
the federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
FLOODWAY: The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
floodplain which are reasonably required to convey the 100-year flood.
FRONTAGE: The side of a lot abutting a street.
GRADE: When referring to building height, the average level of the finished
surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of a building or
structure; when referring to streets, the slope of a road, street or other
public way specified in percent.
GRADING: The shaping of the ground surface by cutting, filling and leveling to
planned grades. Normally, this operation is required in order to convert a site
from one land use to another. Also "fine grading".
GROSS LAND AREA: The entire area of present ownership of a development
including lots, streets and alleys, measured to the centerline of any bounding
streets, if such is the limit of present ownership, or measured to the edge of
public right of way.
INTERESTED PARTY: Landowner or developer who verifies to village attorney that
they are the contract purchaser of subject parcel.
LOT: A parcel of land (whether legally so described or subdivided as one or
more lots or parts of lots) located within a single block, occupied by or
intended for occupancy by one principal building and accessory outbuildings for
principal use, and having its principal frontage upon a street which is either
a "lot of record", or a part of a subdivision duly recorded at the DuPage
County recorder's office.
LOT, CORNER: "Corner lot" means a lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at
their intersection.
LOT LINE, FRONT: "Front lot line" means that boundary line of any lot which is
along an existing or dedicated street lot line and which is established as a
front lot line on the plat of record filed by the owner, subdivider, or
builder.
LOT LINE, REAR: "Rear lot line" means that boundary line of a lot which is most
distant from and is, or is approximately, parallel to the front lot line. If
the rear lot line is less than ten feet (10') in length, or if the line forms a
point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line ten feet
(10') in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from
the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: "Side lot line" means any boundary of a lot which is not a
front or rear lot line.
MUNICIPAL CODE: As used herein, the term municipal code means the "ordinances
of Winfield, Illinois".
NO ACCESS OR NONCROSSOVER STRIP EASEMENT: An easement which vehicles are
prohibited from crossing.
NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION: A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial. Such subdivision shall comply
with the applicable provisions of this title.
OFFICIAL PLAN: The comprehensive plan or any portion thereof prepared by the
plan commission and adopted by the village board in accordance with law.
OPEN SPACE: Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved, or
otherwise devoid of buildings or other structures and paved areas, and set
aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment of owners and occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such open
space.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to the land sought
to be subdivided or improved under this title.
PARCEL: A continuous area of acreage of land which can be described as provided
for in the plat act in the Illinois state statutes.
PARKWAY: A strip of land within a street right of way lying between the edge of
pavement and the right of way line.
PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY OR CROSSWALK: A right of way across or within a block, for
use by pedestrians whether designated as a pedestrian walkway or crosswalk or
however designated; and may include utilities where necessary.
PERSON: Any person, firm or corporation, public or private, the state of
Illinois and its agencies or political subdivisions, and the United States Of
America, its agencies and instrumentalities, and any agent, servant, offices,
or employee of any of the foregoing.
PLAN COMMISSION: Members of the Winfield plan commission as constituted by
ordinance and appointed by the village president and approved by the village
board of trustees.
PLAN, CONCEPT: "Concept plan" means a general map or drawing on which the
subdivider's design for the subdivision of land is presented for discussion
purposes prior to the preparation of the preliminary plan.
PLAN, PRELIMINARY: "Preliminary plan" means the proposed engineering
improvement drawings and other documents presented for review and approval as
described in this title.
PLAN, SKETCH: "Sketch plan" means a general map or drawing on which the
subdivider's design for the subdivision of land is presented for discussion
purposes prior to the preparation of the preliminary plan.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A parcel of land or contiguous parcels of land
of size sufficient to create its own environment, controlled by a single
landowner or by a group of landowners in common agreement as to control, to be
developed as a single entity, the environment of which is compatible with
adjacent parcels, and the intent of the zoning district or districts in which
it is located.
PLAT: Defined in the Illinois plat act 1 , including any updates, addendums,
and supplements to date of final plat.
PLAT, FINAL: "Final plat" means the engineering improvement drawings and other
documents presented for review and approval as described in this title.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A preliminary map or drawings indicating the proposed layout
of the subdivision or site plan which is submitted to the plan commission and
village board for consideration and preliminary approval.
RECORD DRAWING: A reproducible drawing or drawings showing all improvements as
they were constructed (including lengths, rim, and invert elevations, additions
and changes of locations, materials and dimensions, services, stormwater
storage survey and calculations), and is intended to serve as a permanent
village record and reference for future locating and maintenance. Record
drawings shall include all sheets contained in the original set of approved
final plans plus addendums and added exhibits sheets.
RECORDED: Placed on record by the recorder of deeds, DuPage County, Illinois.
RESUBDIVISION: The relocation of property boundaries, or the reallocation of
property in a plat of record. The dissolution of property lines not accompanied
by the relocation of new property lines shall not constitute resubdivision.
RETENTION: A wet bottom stormwater storage area that is designed to be
maintained as free water surface or pond.
RETENTION POND: A stormwater storage area having a normal water surface
elevation and a permanent standing water depth.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated to the public and occupied or intended
to be occupied by a street. The usage of the term "right of way" for land
platting purposes means that every right of way hereafter established and shown
on a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels
adjoining such right of way, and shall not be included within the dimensions of
areas such as lots or parcels. Rights of way intended for streets, alleys,
crosswalks, water mains, sanitary or storm sewer mains, or any other use
involving maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to the public use
by the preparer of the plat on which such right of way is established.
ROADWAY: That portion of a road or street which is improved, designed or
ordinarily intended for vehicular use.
SETBACK: The minimum distance maintained between a road right of way and the
nearest supporting member of any structure on the lot.
SIDEWALK: A paved or otherwise surfaced walkway intended for pedestrian traffic
use only.
SITE: The location of a lot or parcel of land or a contiguous combination
thereof where improvement work is to be performed as a single unified
operation.
SITE DEVELOPMENT: Any work including grading and building construction to be
performed on a lot(s) or a parcel of land(s) which will result in improving the
character of said land.
SOIL TESTING: Determination and analysis of the subsoil conditions of a
specific land area by use of soil borings and testing.
STANDARD PARCELS OR LOTS: Parcels of land or lots not designated as "critical
parcels or lots" on which the drainage runoff from the front yards will drain
to the street and the drainage runoff from the rear yards to a stormwater
facility. Drainage runoff from the side yards shall drain from the property in
question to the front yard or to the rear yard without draining onto adjacent
property.
STREET: A publicly or privately owned right of way or easement which affords a
means of access by vehicles to abutting and local properties, whether
designated as a street, avenue, highway, road, boulevard, lane, or similar
terminology, but excepting driveways to buildings. Streets are generally
classified as follows:
   A.   Primary Street: A street which is intended to serve as a large volume
trafficway for both the immediate village area and the county and as a
principal or major arterial, parkway, highway, or equivalent term to identify
those streets comprising the basic structure of the street plan.
 
Primary Street            Major Collector
Route 38 (Roosevelt Road) Winfield Road
                          Highlake Road
County Farm Road          Jewell Road
                          Geneva Road
                          St. Charles Road
 
   B.   Major Collector Street: A street which collects and distributes vehicle
traffic between the local street system and primary streets. A major collector
street will have moderate continuity (generally 1 to 3 miles) and may serve
intercommunity travel.
   C.   Minor Collector Street: A street whose primary function is to collect
and distribute local subdivision traffic to major collectors and primary
streets. Direct residential driveway access to these streets shall be
minimized.
   D.   Local Streets: The following are local streets serving primarily a land
access function:
1. Minor Street: A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
abutting and local residential and commercial properties.
2. Industrial Service Street: A street of limited continuity used primarily for
access to abutting and local industrial or office research properties.
3. Frontage Road: A minor street paralleling, adjacent and often within the
right of way of a primary street, which provides access to local street systems
and protection from traffic.
4. Cul-De-Sac Street: A minor street of short length having only one outlet,
and having a suitable turnaround terminus as approved by the appropriate
authority to provide for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
5. Half Street: A street of less than the total required width along one or
more property lines of a subdivision.
6. Private Street: A street which is not publicly owned or dedicated public
use, or an easement of access to private property.
SUBDIVIDER: A person, corporation, or group acting as a unit, or any agent
thereof, dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a
"subdivision" as defined herein. The subdivider or owner shall be generically
referred to as "developer".
SUBDIVISION: The division of land into two (2) or more parts, any of which is
less than five (5) acres, exclusive of all right of way for the purpose of
development or if an easement of access or a new road is involved, any division
of land. The term includes any division of land that attempts to avoid the
requirements of this title. Where appropriate to the content, the term
"subdivision", shall relate to the process of subdivision, or to the land
subdivided, and shall include "resubdivisions".
VILLAGE: Wherever the term "village" is used herein, it shall refer to the
village of Winfield, DuPage County, Illinois, unless otherwise specifically
stated.
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR: The village staff member appointed by the village board
to perform all review and administrative services specified or required by this
title.
VILLAGE ATTORNEY: The individual or firm appointed or contracted by the village
board to provide legal services as specified or required by this title.
VILLAGE BOARD: The village president and village board of trustees of the
village of Winfield, DuPage County, Illinois.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The firm appointed or contracted by the village board to
provide engineering services as specified or required by this title.
VILLAGE PLANNER: The individual or firm appointed or contracted by the village
board to provide land planning and landscaping services as specified or
required by this title.
WETLANDS: Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where the
water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by shallow
water. For purposes of this classification, wetlands must have one or more of
the following three (3) attributes:
   A.   At least periodically, the land supports predominantly hydrophytes;
   B.   The substrate is predominantly undrained hydric soil; and
   C.   The substrate is nonsoil and is saturated with water or covered by
shallow water at some time during the growing season of each year. (Ord. 2015-
02-05, 2-5-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/0.01 - 205/56.
CHAPTER 3
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-3-1: General Provisions
11-3-2: Required Improvements
11-3-3: Minimum Standards And Specifications
11-3-4: Block Standards
11-3-5: Lot Standards
11-3-6: Easements
11-3-7: Streets
11-3-8: Site Grading And Drainage
11-3-9: Public Utilities
11-3-10: Storm Sewers And Sump Pump Drains
11-3-11: Stormwater Management
11-3-12: Erosion And Sedimentation Control Plan
11-3-13: Floodplain Regulations
11-3-14: Field Drain Tile Survey
11-3-15: Wastewater Facilities
11-3-16: Water Facilities
11-3-17: Sanitary Sewer And Water Service Lines
11-3-18: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-3-19: Landscaping And Trees
11-3-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conformance To Applicable Rules And Regulations: The design of a
subdivision and improvements shall conform to the comprehensive plan (as
amended from time to time), the official village map, village ordinances
(including, but not limited to, zoning, floodplain, subdivision control,
stormwater, sewer, water, public ways and properties, and annexation
ordinances), fire protection district ordinances of the Winfield fire
protection district (or Carol Stream fire district, as applicable), planning
and development policies, and all applicable rules, regulations, specifications
and standards of the village of Winfield, DuPage County and the state of
Illinois and other duly constituted agencies. No deviation from the approved
plans and specifications and parties involved (developers, engineers, planners,
etc.) will be made without prior approval of the village of Winfield.
   B.   Undevelopable Land: Land which the planning commission finds to be
unsuitable for subdivision or development due to flooding, wetlands, improper
drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth formations or topography
including topographical limitations which prevent the subject property from
reaching the sanitary sewer, utility easements, or other features which will
reasonably be harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare of the present
or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding areas, shall
not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by the
developer and approved by the planning commission, upon recommendation of the
village engineer, or upon recommendation of other governmental authority to
solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall
be set aside for uses as shall not involve such a danger.
Developer interest in land must be clarified in writing to the village board
and plan commission. Only the titleholder to the subject parcel may pursue
conceptual plan review, final plan review, preliminary or final plat. A
speculative developer must verify to the village attorney their contractual
relationship, and must obtain cosignature of titleholder prior to initiating.
   C.   Preservation Of Natural Features:
      1.   General: Due regard shall be given to the preservation of natural
features within a proposed development, such as large trees, watercourses,
wetlands, historical and similar community assets, which, if preserved, will
add attractiveness and value to the property. The developer shall take every
precaution required to preserve said natural features in the planning and
construction of said development.
      2.   Preservation Of Existing Trees: The petitioner shall not remove
trees from the subject property during the annexation or subdivision approval
process. When parcels proposed for development include trees measuring six
inches (6") in caliper or larger, a tree preservation and protection plan shall
be prepared and submitted to the village for review and approval (by the
village administrator), and shall include the following:
         a.   Show the location, size, condition and species of all existing
trees within the construction zone and within thirty feet (30') of proposed
construction, which are six inches (6") in caliper or larger.
         b.   Identify all existing trees, six inches (6") in caliper or
larger, proposed to be removed. Any tree within fifteen feet (15') of trench or
building pad will be assumed as unsalvageable due to construction anticipated
root and canopy disturbance.
         c.   Identify the means and methods to be used for protecting and
preserving trees designated to be saved.
         d.   All planned unit developments and special uses shall conform to
the village's tree preservation ordinance (section
10-2-15 of this code).
      3.   Evaluation Of Existing Trees And Tree Protection:
         a.   The ability to save existing trees on the site shall be evaluated
by the developer and the village to determine which trees shall be saved, and
which trees may be removed due to one or more of the following conditions:
            (1)   Provide essential grade changes;
            (2)   Provide for surface water drainage and utility installations;
            (3)   Locate proposed structure(s) without causing unreasonable
economic hardship;
            (4)   Observe good forestry practices, i.e., the number of healthy
trees that the parcel will support;
            (5)   Pose a safety hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or
threaten to cause disruption of public services;
            (6)   Pose a safety hazard to buildings, both existing and
proposed;
            (7)   Are diseased or weakened by age, storm, fire or other injury;
            (8)   Are willows, silver maples, cottonwoods, box elders, or other
fast growing softwood trees determined by the village to be short lived or of
poor quality.
         b.   All existing trees determined to be saved shall be identified on
the preservation and protection plan and shall be preserved and protected
during the development.
      4.   Tree Replacement: In the event that a tree identified for
preservation is destroyed or damaged during construction, such tree shall be
replaced with a tree that is at least the same size caliper as the tree
removed, or be replaced with smaller trees, each with a minimum caliper of
three inches (3"), as measured twelve inches (12") above grade, which add up to
the caliper of the original tree. Any tree removal which occurs within one year
prior to application for annexation shall also be subject to provisions for
like replacement, as outlined above.
      5.   Other Tree Preservation Requirements:
         a.   Approval of a development plan shall be withheld until all of the
information required by this section has been submitted, and the evaluation of
existing trees on the subject property has been completed by the village or a
certified arborist.
         b.   The village shall, at its discretion, have the right to retain a
professional arborist to review tree preservation plans and to submit a written
report to the village. All expenses incurred by the village for the use of the
tree consultant shall be reimbursed by the developer.
         c.   Fencing shall be provided around all existing trees. The village
shall have the right to inspect the subject property at any time during the
construction process, in order to verify that the developer and contractor have
protected trees in accordance with the approved tree preservation plan.
         d.   Any person, private or public company failing to adhere to the
provisions of the approved tree preservation plan shall be subject to a fine of
fifty dollars ($50.00) per inch caliper, but not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) per tree which has been cut down, and termination of all construction
activity, until such time as all provisions of this chapter have been met to
the satisfaction of the village.
   D.   Parking: Any off street parking improvements required to be constructed
as part of the proposed subdivision improvements shall be in accordance with
the requirements of the zoning ordinance of the village of Winfield. Depth and
width of all lots shall be adequate to provide off street parking and loading
spaces as required by the zoning ordinance.
   E.   Boundary, Lot, And Right Of Way Line Monumentation:
      1.   Permanent monuments shall be placed at the corners or changes in
bearing of the exterior boundary, at the points of curvature or points of
tangency of streets, at a minimum of two (2) points, preferably along the rear
lot line, of all blocks, and at such other points as shall be required to
enable ready establishment of lines within the subdivision. Developers shall
follow the terms of the Illinois plat act, 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/
0.01 through 205/56, inclusive.
Permanent monuments shall be of concrete having a six inch (6") minimum
diameter with one no. 4 vertical bar in its center, and be at least forty two
inches (42") in length. Monuments shall be set flush with adjacent ground.
      2.   Iron pipe markers not less than three-fourths inch (3/4") in
diameter and twenty four inches (24") in length shall be set at all lot corners
and all other required points not marked by permanent monuments. The iron pipes
shall be set flush with the finished ground elevation.
      3.   After construction of all improvements and before any sale or final
acceptance by the village, the subdivider shall replace or verify the existence
of all monuments and markers, and "red top" stake with 1x3s at all lot corners.
      4.   If property corners fall within an interference, the interfering
structure shall be "scribed" to permanently establish the property corner.
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-2: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
The following improvements shall be provided as part of the development of a
proposed subdivision:
   A.   Street pavement structure improvements shall be bituminous concrete
flexible type pavement or a portland cement concrete rigid type pavement
consisting of the following:
      1.   Concrete curb and gutters;
      2.   Stable and compacted subgrade;
      3.   Base and subbase course, as required;
      4.   Bituminous concrete binder and surface courses for flexible type
pavements;
      5.   Portland cement concrete surface courses for rigid type pavements;
Note: Subsections A1 through A4 of this section required prior to issuance of
building permit;
   B.   Portland cement concrete sidewalks;
   C.   Street lighting;
   D.   Landscaping and trees;
   E.   Street signs and pavement markings (including temporary requirements
prior to building construction);
   F.   Any traffic safety installation such as guardrailing, etc.;
   G.   Public utilities for telephone, electric, cable television, and natural
gas;
   H.   Site and lot grading;
   I.   Storm sewer systems and sump pump drainage system;
   J.   Stormwater storage and management;
   K.   Erosion control;
   L.   Wastewater facilities;
   M.   Water facilities;
   N.   Water and sanitary sewer service lines;
   O.   Flood protection. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-3: MINIMUM STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
The construction of improvements, materials used, and the methods for land
development required in this title shall comply with the most restrictive
provisions of the standards set forth in the following documents (current
edition):
   A.   All applicable village ordinances, standards, and specifications as
adopted, including, but not limited to, village of Winfield's soil erosion
control ordinance, and DuPage County stormwater control ordinance, as amended
from time to time;
   B.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", Illinois
department of transportation (IDOT);
   C.   "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois", Illinois Society Of Professional Engineers, et al.;
   D.   "Illinois Design Standards For Sewage Works", IEPA, division of water
pollution control;
   E.   "Technical Policy Statements", IEPA, division of public water supply;
   F.   "Recommended Standards For Water Works", Great Lakes Upper Mississippi
River board of state sanitary engineers ("10 States Standards");
   G.   "Procedures And Standards For Urban Soil Erosion And Sedimentation
Control In Illinois", the urban committee of the Association Of Illinois Soil
And Water Conservation Districts ("Green Book");
   H.   "Standards And Specifications For Soil Erosion And Sediment Control",
IEPA ("Yellow Book");
   I.   "U.S. Soil Conservation Service Field Engineering Handbook";
   J.   DuPage County stormwater ordinance and technical manual.
Where standards are not specifically set forth, improvements shall comply with
standards established by the village board. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-4: BLOCK STANDARDS:
   A.   Determination Of Block Dimensions: The length, widths, and shapes of
blocks shall be determined with due regard to:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated;
      2.   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions within the
corporate limits of the village of Winfield;
      3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
pedestrian and street traffic.
   B.   Block Dimension Restrictions: The length, width, and shape of blocks
shall be such as are appropriate for the locality and the type of development
contemplated, but block length in residential areas shall not be less than
three hundred fifty feet (350') nor exceed one thousand feet (1,000'), nor have
less than sufficient width to provide two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate
depth between street lines, except for blocks with one tier of lots which meet
the double frontage requirements of this title. Double frontage lots shall not
be allowed except where subject lots back to a major collector or arterial
roadway, and such lots shall be a minimum of twenty percent (20%) deeper than
the average throughout the subdivision.
   C.   Blocks Located In Industrial/Commercial Areas: Blocks or portions
thereof intended for commercial or industrial use shall be designated as such,
and the plans shall show adequate off street areas to provide for parking,
loading docks, and other such facilities, as provided in the village zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-5: LOT STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Arrangement: The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be
no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography, soils, flooding or
other conditions, in securing permits to build on all lots in compliance with
the zoning ordinance, the floodplain ordinance, and wastewater treatment and
disposal system rules and regulations. Subdivisions shall contain no leftover
pieces, corners, or remnants of land.
   B.   Lot Size Requirements: Lot dimensions and areas within the village
corporate limits and the one and one-half (11/2) mile jurisdictional boundary
shall conform to the requirements of the village zoning ordinance. If the
county zoning ordinance is more restrictive with regard to a lot in the one and
one-half (11/2) mile jurisdictional boundary, then the county zoning ordinance
shall apply. No lot shall be created for residential or nonresidential uses
that do not comply with the minimum lot area and width of the zoning district
in which it is located, unless otherwise granted as part of a planned
development or special use.
Depth and width of all lots shall be adequate to provide space for off street
parking and loading spaces as required by the zoning ordinance. Excessive depth
in relation to width shall be avoided. A proportion of two and one-half to one
(21/2:1) shall normally be considered a desirable maximum, except where special
circumstances exist due to an odd shaped parcel.
   C.   Lots Affected By Surface Water: Lots abutting a stormwater retention/
detention pond, watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall have a
minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate building site and to
afford the minimum usable area required in this title or the Winfield zoning
ordinance for front, side and rear yards. The storage high water line shall not
encroach upon the privately owned lot area.
   D.   Watercourses, Stream Channels, Floodways And Water Storage Areas:
Watercourses, stream channels, floodways and water storage areas shall not be
included in the computation of required lot areas where it is proposed that
such watercourses are to traverse the lot interiors. The planning commission,
whenever possible, shall require that lot lines do not overlap onto the 100-
year floodplain corridor of an adjacent watercourse.
   E.   Lot Drainage: Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from all building sites and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated
with the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be
designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from a lot or
lots to an adjacent lot or lots.
   F.   Proximity To Dedicated Street: All lots, tracts and parcels shall front
on a publicly dedicated street as required by the village zoning ordinance.
   G.   Double And Reverse Frontage: Double frontage lots are forbidden except
where lots back upon a primary street; and in such instances, vehicular access
between the lots and the primary street is prohibited.
   H.   Side Lot Line: Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles or
radial to the front lot line and/or at right angles to the back lot line.
   I.   Corner Lots:
      1.   Corner lots shall be sized to accommodate the building setbacks as
set forth in the zoning ordinance. A corner lot shall be deemed to have two (2)
front yards. The classification of the remaining two (2) yards shall be
determined by the classification of yard abutting it. If a yard abuts a side
yard, it shall be deemed a side yard. If a yard abuts a rear yard, it shall be
deemed a rear yard.
At the village board's discretion, a five foot (5') reduction in both front
setback lines may be allowed when the home is to be placed at forty five
degrees (45°) to the intersecting streets.
   J.   Flag Lots: Lots which meet the minimum area and dimension provisions of
the zoning ordinance except that the buildable portion of the lot is accessible
to a street right of way by means of a narrow strip of land shall be
prohibited. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-6: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Utility Easements: Easements for the installation, operation, and
maintenance of utilities shall be provided as follows:
      1.   Along all boundary lines of the subdivision having a width of not
less than ten feet (10').
      2.   Along all back lot lines having a width of not less than ten feet
(10').
      3.   Along side and front lot lines where required. Easements for water,
sanitary sewer, and storm sewer lines shall have a minimum width of ten feet
(10'). Easements for electrical, street lighting, telephone, cable television
and gas shall have a minimum width of five feet (5').
      4.   On abutting lots, side lot line easements shall be provided on each
side of the lot line, five feet (5') typical, or ten feet (10') each side if a
side lot water main, sanitary, or storm sewer installation is proposed.
      5.   Utility easements shall be laid out so as to provide continuity from
ROW to ROW. All rear yard utility easements shall be a total of thirty feet
(30'), fifteen feet (15') on each adjoining lot, and accessible to a public
ROW, or twenty feet (20') if perimeter of subdivision.
      6.   On wooded sites, utility easements shall be located and be of
sufficient width so as to minimize environmental damage.
      7.   Utility easements and any easement provisions to be incorporated
into the final plat or in the deed documents shall be reviewed and approved by
the utility companies responsible to furnish the proposed services. Also, the
wording of the utility easement certificate on the final plat shall be approved
by the village administrator and the village engineer.
      8.   Along front lot lines, utility easements typical of not less than
ten feet (10') shall be provided on each lot, or fifteen feet (15') if sanitary
and water outside ROW.
   B.   Drainage And Stormwater Management Easements:
      1.   Drainage easements shall be provided at the side and rear of all
lots to accommodate drainage from each lot. The width of drainage easements
shall be not less than ten feet (10') wide along each rear lot line (totaling
20 feet) and five feet (5') along each side lot line, except where a wider
easement is required to contain a stormwater overflow route plus five feet (5')
horizontal each side.
      2.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, or other body of water, appropriate dedications or
easements, with adequate width to accommodate, observed, computed, or
anticipated stormwater drainage through and from the subdivision, shall be
made. The width of the easement or dedication shall be dependent on the area of
land drained by the watercourse and shall allow access for construction and
maintenance equipment. In general the easement shall conform substantially with
the lines of the watercourse and shall include the floodplain, where
applicable, plus an additional area not less than twenty feet (20') wide
adjoining both edges of the floodplain.
      3.   All permanent stormwater management facilities for a subdivision
shall be protected by easements or dedications for drainage and shall permit
ingress and egress for maintenance. All side lot lines shall have a minimum ten
foot (10') easement centered on the lot line. All lot lines adjacent to
nonsubdivided lands shall have a twenty foot (20') easement for drainage.
      4.   No construction of structures, dams, embankments or channels (except
as indicated on the improvement plans) and no planting of trees, shrubbery or
other vegetation, which hinder the flow of water or otherwise inhibit the
intended purposes, shall be allowed within any drainage or stormwater
management facility easement. In the event the area within such easements is
obstructed, reshaped, regraded or restricted for uses other than as intended or
as shown on the improvement plans, the village will cause to have any
alterations corrected at the expense of the party or parties causing said
obstruction, restriction, regrading or alteration.
      5.   Where possible, drainage easements shall be separate and distinct
from utility easements.
      6.   Drainage and stormwater management easements shall be adequately
maintained so as to provide for removal of accumulation of vegetation, silt,
debris or other material which may interfere with the flow characteristics of
drainageways or the essential features of retention or detention facilities.
   C.   Landscaping And Conservation Easements:
      1.   A screen planting easement may be required between residential and
commercial or industrial lots, or along lot lines to discourage the undesirable
development of residential lots fronting on traffic arteries. If such easement
is to be used for public utilities, the easement shall be of sufficient width
(25 feet minimum) to accommodate appropriate screen planting without
interfering with utility service or maintenance.
      2.   Easements will be required to protect special management areas
designated for the preservation of site flora as referenced in the county's
stormwater ordinance requirements and open space protection.
      3.   The village requires setback along street frontages; refer to zoning
ordinance for requirements.
   D.   Temporary Turnaround Easements: Temporary easements, as shown on detail
35, section
11-19-1, "Appendix A; Standard Drawings", of this title, shall be provided for
construction of temporary turnarounds on streets which are designed to have a
temporary terminus and are to be extended in the future. When the street is
extended, said temporary easements shall be considered voided and released for
other uses and purposes.
   E.   Pedestrianway Easements: Easements or dedications shall be provided for
pedestrianways where deemed appropriate by the village board. Pedestrianway
easements shall be maintained to permit their continued use.
   F.   Line Of Sight Easements At Intersections: At all intersections, line of
sight easements shall be established to protect clear sight distance not to
exceed three feet (3') above centerline grade within the triangular area formed
at the intersection of any street right of way lines by a straight line drawn
between said right of way lines at a distance along each line as shown in
detail 9, section
11-19-1 of this title, from their point of intersection. No obstructions will
be permitted within said easement which exceeds three feet (3') above
centerline grade. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-7: STREETS:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   The subdivision of land, including the arrangement, character,
extent, width, grade and location of all streets, alleys, or other land to be
dedicated for public use, shall conform to the standards of this title and
shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets,
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses and densities of the land to be
served by such streets. No extension of any existing streets or alleys shall be
blocked or offset within the village or within one and one-half (11/2) miles of
its corporate limits. Streets shall conform to the official plan of the village
where possible, and shall not be planned so as to overburden existing streets
by channeling excessive traffic onto existing streets. Private streets shall
not be permitted unless approved as part of a planned unit development by the
village board of trustees. Private streets shall be covered by a special
service area (SSA) taxing authority or homeowners' association (HOA), which
shall be structured to cover all maintenance costs.
      2.   Wherever the tract to be subdivided and/or developed borders on and
will utilize existing street frontage, then said existing street frontage,
including the existing pavement, should be fully improved by the developer in
accordance with the requirements as specified in this title or by the village
board. When a proposed subdivision utilizes an existing village of Winfield
street, that proposed subdivision shall upgrade the existing street to meet the
subdivision control ordinance provisions outlined herein.
      3.   Street alignment should respect the natural features of the site,
should avoid excessive cuts or fills, and should preserve wooded areas, large
trees, and wetlands wherever possible.
      4.   All streets shall be provided to afford convenient access to all
lots within the subdivision, and shall front all lots, tracts and parcels.
      5.   If the tract of land proposed to be subdivided, or any part thereof,
lies adjacent to a roadway over which the Illinois department of
transportation, DuPage County highway department, or a township highway
department has jurisdiction with respect to maintenance and upkeep thereof, and
an entrance or entrances are desired from such street to lots, streets,
roadways or alleys, in such proposed subdivision, the developer shall prepare
and submit the appropriate permit application to said highway department. The
permit application granting permission to obtain and construct such an entrance
or entrances shall be submitted to the village engineer and reviewed prior to
the submittal to the proper highway departments by the developer.
      6.   On primary and collector streets where traffic volume and safety
considerations warrant or where required by other government authority having
jurisdiction, paved acceleration, deceleration, passing and turning lanes shall
be provided by the developer.
      7.   Residential streets shall be laid out so that their use by through
traffic will be discouraged. When a traffic signal is warranted and required,
each development shall escrow its proportionate share of that future signal
cost, based upon traffic impact.
      8.   No street names may be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets. The village retains the right to name all
streets which shall be approved by the planning commission and the village
board. Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with or continuations
of existing streets already named shall bear the name of such existing streets
provided the continuation is in the same general direction. Street name signs
of a type approved by the village board shall be provided by the developer/
subdivider at all street intersections in accordance with detailed standards
within this title.
      9.   Separation of entrances, as well as ingress/egress specific
geometrics shall be per direction of the plan commission and village board, as
recommended by the village engineer.
      10.   No permanent building or structure shall be erected or constructed
within a street right of way, extended street lines, or planned street right of
way.
      11.   Rural type streets, streets having no concrete curb and gutter and
having roadway ditches for drainage, will be permitted where they presently
exist, and the Village Board grants permission to preserve rural character.
      12.   All subdivisions greater than twenty (20) units shall have a
minimum of two (2) access points as remote as possible to each other.
   B.   Standard Specifications: All new streets within the corporate limits of
the Village of Winfield, dedicated or platted after the effective date of this
title, shall be improved with roadway pavement including subgrade, subbase,
base course, surface course, curb and gutter, and all other related work in
accordance with this title and the latest edition of the "Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", Illinois Department of
Transportation.
   C.   Location: Streets shall be located per the direction of the Village
Board, with the recommendation of the staff and Plan Commission. Wherever such
a planned street is located within a proposed subdivision, the street shall be
designed and located in the place and with the width indicated for that street
classification as shown on the Comprehensive Plan, or as defined by the Village
Engineer. Where the street is not shown on the official Street Plan, the
arrangement of streets in the subdivision shall:
      1.   Extend to existing adjoining streets, unless extension thereof would
not be practical, and shall be located to coordinate with other proposed
developments;
      2.   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in surrounding area;
      3.   Conform to a plan for the area or neighborhood approved or adopted
by the Village Board to meet a particular situation where topographical or
other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets
impracticable.
   D.   Abutting Planned Or Existing Highway Or Railroad:
      1.   Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed
primary street or railroad, the Village Board, upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission, may require a frontage or reversed frontage road with
screen planting contained in a nonaccess reservation, which shall have a
minimum width of ten feet (10'), but actual width may increase if determined by
recommendation of the Planning Commission and approved by the Village Board in
order to provide adequate separation and screening from the primary street or
railroad.
      2.   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain a railroad or
other limited access right-of-way, the Village may require the location of a
street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way at a
distance suitable for the development of appropriate use of the intervening
land, such as a park proposed in residential districts, or for commercial or
industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances shall be
determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for approach
grades to future grade separations.
   E.   Reserve Strips: No strip or area shall be reserved along any portion of
a street which will prevent adjacent property owners' access thereto.
   F.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited.
   G.   Dead End Streets: Permanent and temporary dead end streets shall be
generally designed as a cul-de-sac.
   H.   Street Elevations: Street elevations shall conform to existing natural
elevations wherever possible. The centerline elevation of the paved street
surface lowest sag point shall be a minimum of one foot (1') above the 100-year
floodplain elevation or detention facility HWL.
   I.   Alleys:
      1.   Proposed alleys in residential areas shall not be permitted. (Ord.
2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
   J.   Cul-De-Sac:
      1.   At the discretion of the Village Board, a developer may be allowed
cul-de-sacs within a development. A cul-de-sac designed to be permanent shall
not be longer than three hundred feet (300'), measured along the centerline
from the centerline of the intersecting street to the center of the cul-de-sac.
Islands at the center of the cul-de-sac shall not be permitted. Tear shaped
designed cul-de-sacs meeting the requirements herein stated will be required.
         a.   Cul-de-sac typical:
            (1)   Terminus of cul-de-sac shall be nearly teardrop with a right-
of-way not less than one hundred twenty feet (120') in diameter, and throat
right-of-way radius of not less than sixty feet (60') (per section
11-19-1, detail 10 of this title).
            (2)   Paved circle shall be centered in the right-of-way and have a
paved circle of not less than ninety feet (90') in diameter and a throat
pavement radius of not less than forty five feet (45') (per section
11-19-1, detail 10 of this title). (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
      2.   In extraordinary circumstances, a cul-de-sac may extend longer than
three hundred feet (300'). Under no circumstances may a cul- de-sac extend
longer than six hundred feet (600'). The roadway shall be widened as follows:
         a.   Thirty two feet (32') back to back of curb and no parking posted
on same side of street as the hydrants.
         b.   Thirty four feet (34') back to back of curb with parking allowed
on both sides of street.
   K.   Street Right-Of-Way Widths: Right-of-way widths for designated streets
shall conform to the following minimum requirements or to the requirements of
the appropriate authority, whichever is greater:
Street Classification ROW Width
Street Classification   ROW Width
Primary                 100 feet
Collector               80 feet
Local:                   
 Minor (all zoning)    66 feet
 Frontage road         50 feet
Cul-de-sac turnarounds:  
 Residential           60 feet radius (per section
                        11-19-1, detail 10 of this title)
 Industrial            75 feet radius
 
   L.   Pavement Widths:
Street Classification Minimum Width As Measured From Back To Back Of Curbs
Street Classification                Minimum Width As Measured From Back To
                                     Back Of Curbs
Primary                              Per Village and/or Governing Authority
Major collector                      As determined by the Village, 40 foot
                                     minimum B/C-B/C
Local:                                
 Minor (all zoning)                 30 feet - B/C-B/C
 Frontage road                      30 feet - B/C-B/C
Cul-de-sac turnarounds (all zoning):  
 Residential                        45 feet radius (per section
                                     11-19-1, detail 10 of this title)
 Industrial                         60 feet radius
 
   M.   Geometrics: The geometric design of all street improvements shall
conform to the following criteria:
      1.   The grade (slope) of all streets shall not exceed the maximum
gradient and shall not be less than the minimum gradient as set forth on table
1, "Minimum Standards For Street Design", of this section.
      2.   The minimum clear site distance shall not be less than the distance
set forth on table 1 of this section.
      3.   Curves in streets shall be permitted, provided, that where
connecting street lines that deflect from each other at any one point by more
than ten degrees (10°), they shall be connected by a curve with a radius of not
less than one hundred fifty feet (150') for "local" streets and four hundred
feet (400') for "collector" streets as measured to the street centerline.
      4.   A tangent of the minimum length listed on table 1 of this section
shall be established between reverse curves on all streets.
      5.   The minimum radius of horizontal curve shall be as set forth on
table 1 of this section.
      6.   The vertical curve length required shall be calculated by
multiplying the algebraic difference in grades times the thirty (30) mile per
hour "k" factor. The minimum vertical curve for a particular street
classification is set forth in table 1 of this section.
      7.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred fifty
feet (150') shall not be allowed.
      8.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, unless warranted by special conditions and approved by the
village.
      9.   Curved streets, intersecting with primary and collector streets
shall do so with a tangent section of centerline one hundred feet (100') in
length measured from the right of way line of the primary or collector street.
   N.   Street Grades:
      1.   The design grade of all new streets in the village of Winfield shall
not exceed a maximum of six percent (6%). Streets may have a minimum grade of
no less than six-tenths of a percent provided that adequate positive drainage
is provided and shall be subject to approval by the village engineer.
      2.   Where an existing street is to be extended to the subdivision, the
existing street grade shall be continued if at all possible or a vertical curve
shall be provided at the change in grade.
      3.   All final street grades are subject to the approval of the village
engineer. The final grading plan shall show all street grades in percentage of
slope. Profiles of new streets, including vertical curve data, shall be
provided as requested by the village engineer.
      4.   All changes of grade shall be connected by a vertical curve of at
least the minimum length as set in table 1 of this section.
      5.   Clear visibility, measured along the centerline of the street, shall
be provided for at least five hundred feet (500') on all primary streets, four
hundred feet (400') on collector streets, and at least three hundred feet
(300') on local streets posted thirty (30) miles per hour, and two hundred
fifty feet (250') on all local streets posted twenty five (25) miles per hour.
   TABLE 1
   MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STREET DESIGN
 
                          Minimum             Minimum  Minimum
               Minimum    Pavement Minimum    Length   Tangent Maximum  Minimum
Street         Right Of   Width1   Radius Of  Of       Between Gradient Gradient RequiredSight
Classification Way Width  B/C - B/ Horizontal Vertical Horizon Of       Of       Distance
                          C        Curves     Curves   Reverse Roadway  Roadway3
                                                       Curves
               100' or as
Primary        determined 51'      500'       200' 4   200'    5%       0.6%     500'
               by IDOT or
               DuDot 2
                          As
                          required
Collector      80'        by       400'       100' 4   100'    5%       0.6%     400'
                          village
                          40' min.
Local, minor
and industrial 66'        30'      150'       100' 5   100'    6%       0.6%     300' 7
service
Cul-de-sac and 66', 120'  30', 90'
turnaround     diameter 6 diameter 150'       50' 5    100'    6%       0.6%     250'
                          6
Frontage road
(marginal      50'        39'      150'       50' 5    100'    6%       0.6%     250'
access street)
 
Notes:
   1.    Pavement widths are measured back to back of curb.
   2.    Exact ROW within standards, shall be decision of village board.
   3.    Minimum slope of drainage ditch bottom shall be 2 percent.
   4.    50 feet for each 1 percent algebraic difference of grade but in no
case less than 100 feet.
   5.    40 feet for each 1 percent algebraic difference of grade but in no
case less than 100 feet.
   6.    Cul-de-sac diameter.
   7.    250 feet on local streets posted 25 miles per hour.
   O.   Pavement Design And Construction Standards:
      1.   Required Pavement: All streets within the subdivision shall be
improved with a bituminous concrete flexible type pavement or a portland cement
concrete rigid type pavement. Pavement width shall conform to subsection L of
this section.
      2.   Design: The pavement shall be designed in accordance with the
pavement design section of the IDOT design manual as amended in section
3.7.0.7.A (April 1990, latest revision), published by the bureau of design,
Illinois department of transportation, as modified herein, and constructed in
accordance with the materials, equipment and methods covered by the Illinois
department of transportation, "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", latest revision.
      3.   Mandated Schedule For Public Paving Improvements:
 
October 31  Pass proof roll
November 21 Paving complete to binder course
 
      4.   Flexible Pavements:
         a.   Pavement subgrade shall consist of a stable material having an
Illinois bearing ratio (IBR) value of not less than 3.0. IBR tests will be
required if, in the opinion of the village engineer, they are necessary to
evaluate the subbase material.
         b.   Base and surface courses will be of such materials to give
structural number (Dt) as specified for the type of pavement improvement
designated below:
Type Of Street Minimum Value (Dt)
Type Of Street    Minimum Value (Dt)
Primary           Dt to be determined by traffic count and IBR tests (4.4
                  minimum)
Collector         4.0
Local residential 3.2
Local commercial  3.6
Frontage roads    3.2
Industrial        3.6
Cul-de-sac        3.2 or same as connecting pavement
 
      5.   Rigid Pavement: Rigid pavement design shall be in conformance with
the structural design of rigid pavements of the Illinois department of
transportation, design manual.
      6.   Completion Of Underground Work: Prior to the construction of the
roadway pavement, all of the major underground work, shall be completely
installed in place. All trenches which are under proposed roadway and curb
shall be backfilled under and two feet (2') beyond roadway and curb with
granular backfill material, jetted and/or tamped in an approved manner for
settlement and compacted to not less than ninety five percent (95%) standard
laboratory density. After jetting and any subsequent settlement, additional
material shall be added as required.
      7.   Surface Course: All surface course shall be continuously crack
sealed with approved hot bituminous sealant at interface of curb and pavement
one year after placement of surface course, and prior to village acceptance and
closeout of public surety/one year maintenance.
      8.   Pavement Subgrade Requirements: The street subgrade shall be shaped
and compacted as specified in section 301 of the IDOT standard specifications.
The minimum compacted density shall be ninety five percent (95%) of its maximum
density as determined by standard laboratory methods. The substantially
completed subgrade shall be nuclear tested at minimum two hundred foot (200')
intervals for compacted density and the results submitted to the village. In
addition, just prior to construction of the base course, the subgrade shall be
proof rolled with a fully loaded truck and witnessed by the village engineer.
If precipitation occurs and the subgrade becomes saturated before the base
course is constructed, then said proof rolling shall be repeated.
If the subgrade compaction testing and proof rolling indicate unsuitable or
unstable subgrade areas, then said unsuitable or unstable areas shall be
removed and replaced with acceptable compacted granular material. Upon
direction of the village engineer, designated areas of unstable subgrade shall
be stabilized by installing the lime stabilization as approved by the village
engineer. All subgrade that passes the proof roll must have lime stabilization
or an eight (8) ounce nonwoven geotech fabric placed at subgrade elevation as
directed by the village engineer.
      9.   Flexible Pavement Requirements:
         a.   Base Course: After approval of the subgrade by the village
engineer, the aggregate base shall be constructed in accordance with section
351 of the IDOT standard specifications for type A or type B construction. The
material shall be crushed limestone or crushed gravel conforming to CA-
6 gradation. (Recycled material or alternative material shall not be allowed as
a substitute.) The compacted base course thickness shall be as calculated by
the above stated method with the minimum thickness being seven inches (7"). The
aggregate base course material shall be compacted to not less than ninety five
percent (95%) of the standard laboratory density. During construction of the
aggregate base course, compaction density tests shall be proof rolled one day
prior to construction of the binder course with a fully loaded truck. Also
during construction of the aggregate base course, compaction density tests
shall be made as directed by the village engineer to verify that the required
compacted density is achieved.
If the base compaction testing and proof rolling indicate unstable base areas,
then said unstable base areas along with any unstable subgrade shall be removed
and replaced with acceptable compacted base course material, and, if required
by village engineer, a subgrade geotech fabric of minimum of eight (8) ounces;
or two inches (2") aggregate base removal and upgraded to two inches (2") of
additional BAM course thickness, as directed by the village engineer.
After the aggregate base course has been successfully placed and passed the
proof roll, a bituminous concrete binder course shall be placed, HMA IL-19.0
N50 conforming to section 406 of the IDOT standard specifications. All work and
materials shall be performed in accordance with applicable provisions of
section 406 of the IDOT standard specifications. The minimum thickness of the
completed bituminous binder course, as measured at any point on the pavement
surface, shall be four inches (4").
         b.   Bituminous Prime Coat: Prior to construction of the bituminous
binder course, the completed aggregate base course shall be primed with a
bituminous material, MC-30 or an approved equal, at a minimum application rate
of 0.30 gallons per square yard.
         c.   Bituminous Concrete Binder Course: The bituminous concrete binder
course shall be HMA IL-19.0 N50 conforming to section 406 of the IDOT standard
specifications. All work and materials shall be performed in accordance with
applicable provisions of section 406 of the IDOT standard specifications. The
minimum thickness of the completed bituminous binder course, as measured at any
point on the pavement surface, shall be as follows:
            (1)   Two and one-half inches (21/2") for local, minor, cul-de-sac,
and frontage;
            (2)   Two and one-half inches (21/2") for minor business and
commercial streets subject to light traffic;
            (3)   Four inches (4") for collector streets and streets within
business and commercial districts subject to heavy traffic; and
            (4)   Four inches (4") for streets within industrial districts.
         d.   Stabilization Period And Core Testing, Bituminous Binder Course:
The binder course shall be subject to one winter period of traffic after
placement before the construction of the final surface course. All manholes
located within pavement where surface course is to be postponed shall be set to
binder course level initially. Just prior to surface course installation, all
such structures shall be final adjusted, all disturbed pavement areas poured
with concrete (of minimum 6 inch thickness) to binder course level. Prior to
the construction of the final surface course, core boring shall be made, in the
presence of a representative of the village, through the existing binder course
and aggregate base course. The corings shall be spaced as directed and shall be
alternately staggered on each side of the centerline of the pavement. Coring
shall be measured for thickness and results of the core borings shall be
submitted to the village engineer for approval before proceeding with the final
bituminous course. Any deficiencies in thickness of base and/or binder shall be
corrected by an approved thickness of surface course or other method found
acceptable to the village. All core borings shall be filled and compacted with
bituminous asphalt. The cost of all borings shall be at the subdivider's
expense.
         e.   Bituminous Concrete Surface Course: Prior to construction of the
final bituminous surface course on previously constructed bituminous binder
courses subject to extended traffic use, a bituminous tack coat shall be
applied to said bituminous binder course surface.
The bituminous concrete binder course shall be HMA mix "D" N50 constructed on
previously placed bituminous binder course. The work and materials shall
conform to applicable provisions of section 405 or section 406 of the IDOT
standard specifications. The bituminous mixture shall be shown on the plans or
specified in the project specifications and approved by the village engineer.
No recycled bituminous material will be permitted in the final bituminous
surface course mixture.
The minimum thickness of the final completed bituminous surface course, as
measured at any point on the pavement surface, shall be one and one-half inches
(11/2") on all proposed streets within the development.
      10.   PCC Rigid Pavement Requirements:
         a.   Portland cement concrete pavement shall be designed in accordance
with the IDOT design manual for rigid pavement. The design data and
calculations shall be submitted to the village for approval. The minimum
pavement thickness shall be seven inches (7").
         b.   All concrete rigid type pavement shall be constructed on an eight
inch (8") minimum compacted aggregate subbase.
         c.   Portland cement concrete pavements shall be constructed in
accordance with applicable provisions of section 420 of the IDOT standard
specifications.
         d.   Concrete curbs and gutters adjacent to the concrete pavement may
be constructed integral with the pavement section.
      11.   Cul-De-Sac Requirements: The requirements for construction of cul-
de-sac pavements shall conform with the connecting street's pavement
requirements.
      12.   Frontage Roads Requirements:
         a.   The complete design of frontage roads including specifications
and designation of roadways, driving lanes, pavement widths, thickness,
materials, etc., shall be submitted to the village for review and approval.
         b.   When a frontage road is to be dedicated to public use, the
specifications shall be in accordance with the design requirements for streets
within the district it is located.
         c.   Where more than one owner or lessee are to use the same private
frontage road, a covenant, whereby the owners of the property serviced thereby
are jointly and severally liable for the maintenance thereof, shall be recorded
before approval of the proposed "development" as defined herein.
      13.   Curb And Gutter:
         a.   General: A concrete curb and gutter section shall be constructed
along the outside lines of all street pavements, and parking lots unless waived
by the village board.
         b.   Standard Curb Section In Residential Districts: The standard
concrete curb and gutter section shall be below with ten inch (10") gutter flag
thickness, the gutter flow line to be eleven inches (11") from the gutter flag
edge, and a continuous reinforced barrier type (B6.12) curb and gutter section.
         c.   Curb Section In Commercial And Industrial Districts: The curb and
gutter section in commercial and industrial districts shall consist of a
combination barrier concrete curb and gutter, type B6.12. Combination curb and
gutter shall be depressed at sidewalk ramps and known driveway approaches.
Where driveway approaches are not known at the time of construction, the
barrier curb shall be constructed throughout with future removal of the curb by
sawing at driveways and other access entrances.
         d.   Reinforcing Bars: All curb and gutter shall be reinforced with
two (2) no. 4 reinforcing bars run continuously through its length, except at
expansion joints.
         e.   Expansion Joints: Expansion joints shall be provided at all
radius points, a maximum sixty foot (60') spacing, five feet (5') on each side
of inlet structures. At expansion joints, provide two (2) no. 6 smooth dowel
bars with end caps across said joint, and three-fourths inch (3/4") premolded,
nonextruding joint filler.
         f.   Contraction Joints: Contraction joints shall be sawed at ten foot
(10') spacing. Contraction joints shall be saw cut to a two and one-half inch
(21/2") depth across entire curb and gutter, within four (4) days of placement.
         g.   Standard Specifications: Concrete curb and gutter shall be
constructed in accordance with section 606 of the IDOT standard specifications.
Concrete shall be class SI. Test cylinders shall be taken and the certified
compression test reports submitted to the engineer for the village. Finished
surfaces of all newly constructed curb and gutter shall be coated with
antispall and curing compound as approved by the engineer for the village.
         h.   Base: Concrete curb and gutter shall be constructed on a
compacted aggregate base course having a minimum depth of five inches (5"). All
curb repairs will be joint to joint. No shotcrete or epoxy repairs.
         i.   Curb Return Radius: All street intersections shall have a minimum
curb return radius of twenty five feet (25') on local streets and thirty feet
(30') on other street classifications unless otherwise required.
         j.   Temperature Constraints: No curb work pour shall commence unless
the ambient air temperature is thirty nine degrees (39°) and rising, and when
no frost or frozen base are present. Blankets required where temperature within
twenty four (24) hours after pour is expected to drop below thirty nine degrees
(39°).
         k.   Utility Service Locations: Curb and gutter shall be stamped
designating location of water service ("W") or sanitary service ("S").
   P.   Sidewalks And Pedestrianways Requirements:
      1.   Requirements: Sidewalks or pedestrianways shall be provided as
follows:
         a.   Residential Subdivisions: Sidewalks are required on both sides of
all streets.
         b.   Commercial Districts: Sidewalks are required on both sides of all
streets.
         c.   Industrial Districts: Sidewalks in industrial districts shall be
provided as directed by the plan commission or the village board.
         d.   Blocks: Pedestrianways or sidewalks may be required by the
village through the center of blocks more than eight hundred feet (800') long,
where deemed essential to provide circulation of access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, and other community facilities.
Said pedestrianways or sidewalks shall be located within a right of way or
easement at least fifteen feet (15') in width.
         e.   Major Roadways: Sidewalks will be required along major roadways
such as state or county routes which are within or abutting the proposed
development.
      2.   Sidewalk Or Pedestrianway Construction And Specifications:
         a.   Material And Dimensions: Sidewalks shall be constructed of
portland cement concrete, have a minimum thickness of five inches (5") (6
inches at drives with wire mesh or fiber mesh concrete), and be at least five
feet (5') in width.
         b.   Location: The standard location for sidewalks shall be within
street's right of way (ROW) with the outside edge one foot (1') off said ROW
line. Pedestrianways may also be located one foot (1') off the street's ROW
line or within a pedestrianway easement.
         c.   Conformance To Standard Specifications: Sidewalks shall be
constructed in conformance to section 424 of the IDOT standard specifications.
Concrete shall be class SI, 6-bag mix of four inches (4") maximum slump, or
test cylinders shall be taken and certified compression test reports submitted
to the building inspector, a twenty eight (28) day strength of four thousand
(4,000) psi. Finished surfaces of a newly constructed sidewalk shall be coated
with antispall and curing compound as approved by the village engineer.
         d.   Bike Paths: Bike paths shall have all topsoil removed, subgrade
proof roll tested, ten foot (10') wide base of eight inch (8") thickness
aggregate base TY "B" CA-6 and eight foot (8') wide bituminous path of two and
one-half inch (21/2") thickness bituminous surface course.
         e.   Aggregate Base Sidewalks: Aggregate base sidewalks shall be
constructed with a minimum four inch (4") thick compacted aggregate base with a
CA-6 gradation.
         f.   Dowel Rods: Where continuous sidewalks are not constructed at the
same time, three (3) no. 5 smooth dowel rods with expansion caps shall be
installed between the previously constructed sidewalk and the sidewalk to be
constructed.
         g.   Handicap Ramps At Intersections: All sidewalks shall be provided
with concrete handicap ramps at all intersections and at pedestrianways in
accordance with minimum state of Illinois and/or Illinois accessibility code,
and/or federal ADA guidelines for accessible design. All ramps to depressed
curbs shall be "truncated dome" stamp impregnated pattern per ADA guidelines.
   Q.   Street Lighting:
      1.   Adequate Illumination Required: The subdivider shall provide, at his
or her cost, adequate street lighting improvements throughout the subdivision
in conformance with the following standards, rules and regulations, or as
deemed necessary by the village of Winfield to ensure adequate illumination of
walkways and streets for pedestrian and vehicle traffic.
      2.   Application: These street lighting rules and regulations are
primarily intended for residential street lighting. Applicable regulations
stated herein shall apply to commercial and industrial subdivisions. However,
when planning for commercial and industrial subdivisions, the developer shall
confer with the village for any special requirements.
      3.   General Provisions:
         a.   Street lighting shall be incorporated into development plans,
prepared by an Illinois registered professional engineer, and shall be
submitted to the village for approval prior to construction. Plans shall show
the location of all light poles, cable routes, power sources and catalog cuts
of poles and light fixtures.
         b.   The developer shall arrange with the local electrical power
company for electric service and shall bear the expense of any charges by said
power company to furnish service connections. The locations of the service
connections shall be as mutually agreed between the power company, developer,
and the village of Winfield.
         c.   The developer shall be held responsible for coordination of all
phases of the work and correcting any deficiencies to the satisfaction of the
village of Winfield.
         d.   The developer shall familiarize himself or herself with the
existing improvements in the areas where underground work is proposed, and
shall direct his or her electrical contractor to exercise due precaution to
protect said existing improvements. All parkways or other areas disturbed
during construction shall be restored to the existing or proposed finished
surface.
         e.   All underground cables planned along back and side lot lines
shall be installed in a minimum ten foot (10') wide easement.
         f.   All street lighting improvements shall be completed and operating
prior to the issuance of any occupancy permits for new buildings constructed in
the subdivision, or as allowed by the village board.
         g.   The village's superintendent of public works shall be notified at
least twenty four (24) hours prior to start of construction, and all street
lighting work shall be approved by the village of Winfield prior to final
acceptance. All cable runs shall be left open and not backfilled until
inspected by the village's public works staff. All repairs shall also be
inspected by the village.
      4.   Design And Installation Requirements:
         a.   Location And Spacing: There shall be at least one streetlight at
each street intersection, curve, at the end of cul-de-sacs, and at other
locations deemed required by the village for public safety and for special
conditions and additional lighting positioned at points of curvature. The light
pole shall be installed in the street's right of way, three feet (3') back of
curb to the face of the pole. Where possible, intermediate lights between
intersections shall be located on alternate sides of the street. The maximum
spacing between streetlights shall not exceed the following:
 
Collector streets         200 feet
Local residential streets 300 feet
 
         b.   Electrical Circuitry: Circuitry shall be one hundred twenty (120)
volt, single-phase, and 3-wire, and installed in conformance with the
requirements of the national electrical code as adopted by village ordinance.
         c.   Light Distribution: Luminaries of the type II distribution as
approved by the Illuminating Engineering Society (hereinafter for brevity
referred to as IES) shall be used except at intersections where type III or
type IV IES distribution shall be used. The village may designate that IES type
V distribution luminaries be used in the public interest under unusual or
special conditions.
         d.   Individual Control: On individual controlled streetlights, the
photoelectric control shall be mounted on top of the fixture and face north.
         e.   Group Control: The control of a group of units shall be limited
to four (4) and the photoelectric control shall be mounted on the standard
nearest the power supply.
         f.   Line Drop: Voltage drop shall be no greater than six percent (6%)
from power supply to last unit with no wire size smaller than no. 10 type RHH
or RHW underground service cable (USE).
         g.   Power Supply Location: Connection to the power supply shall be
made to comply with Commonwealth Edison Company and the village of Winfield's
requirements and regulations as amended from time to time.
         h.   Power Supply Connection: Connections to power supply shall be
made to comply with Commonwealth Edison Company and the village of Winfield's
requirements and regulations as amended from time to time.
         i.   Length Of Circuit: No circuit shall be greater than one thousand
feet (1,000') from power supply to the most distant streetlight in the circuit.
         j.   Cable Power Supply To Light Pole Base: All cables installed as a
part of the street lighting installation shall be direct burial copper cable of
the type and size as hereinafter specified and shall be installed underground
in a dedicated right of way or in a utility easement dedicated to the village.
         k.   Conduit: All street, sidewalk, and driveway crossings shall have
one and one-half inch (11/2") PVC schedule 40 conduit used as raceways for the
underground cable. Also, conduit shall be provided at all surface drainage
channel crossings and at other locations designated by the village engineer.
All underground conduits shall be terminated with insulated bushings and sealed
to prevent the entrance of debris.
         l.   Underground Streetlight Cable Installation: All underground cable
shall be installed in a trench not less than three feet (3') from the "back"
edge of the curb away from the street except that in no case shall the
underground cable be installed under a sidewalk, except for crossings. Cable
shall be buried to a minimum depth of thirty inches (30") below the proposed
finished grade, and shall be initially backfilled with at least three inches
(3") of clean sand. The remaining trench shall be backfilled with excavated
material free from lumps and foreign objects. All underground cable shall be
continuous and no splicing shall be made underground. All required splices
shall be made above ground level.
         m.   Light Poles: Precast poles shall be Stress/Crete Limited precast
concrete pole #200-APH-G-S40 pole height above grade of fifteen feet (15') per
detail 16, section
11-19-1 of this title or Centre-Con precast concrete pole MEO-114-MOAECS pole
height above grade of twenty three feet (23') per detail 17, section
11-19-1 of this title.
         n.   Light Pole Wiring: Electrical wiring installed from the handhole
in the base of the pole to the photoelectric cell and the luminaries shall be
no. 12 AWG copper.
         o.   Fusing: All underground feeders shall be fused at or below their
rated capacity. Each streetlight shall contain in-line fuse holders with proper
fusing in series with each conductor to protect the luminaries located on that
pole.
         p.   Luminaries: Luminaries shall be LED and be securely fastened to
the top of the light pole with a slip fitter at a nominal mounting height of
fifteen (15) or twenty five feet (25').
Luminaries shall be provided with an individual photocell and an adjustable
lamp socket. The distribution pattern shall be IES type III-SCO.
         q.   Numeric Identification: Developer shall be responsible for
numeric identification of light poles; numbering to be provided by public works
department.
      5.   Materials And Equipment:
         a.   General: Materials and equipment to be incorporated in the street
lighting installation shall be in accordance with the following standards or an
approved equivalent.
         b.   Guarantee: Streetlight standards, luminaries, ballast, lamps and
cables shall be guaranteed by the manufacturer or distributor for its proper
use from one year from the date of acceptance.
         c.   Poles: Precast poles shall be Stress/Crete Limited precast
concrete pole #200-APH-G-S40 pole height above grade of fifteen feet (15') per
detail 16, section
11-19-1 of this title, or Centre-Con precast concrete pole MED-114-MOAECS pole
height above grade of twenty three feet (23') per detail 17, section
11-19-1 of this title.
         d.   Luminaire: Luminaire shall be of the LED type with photoelectric
control provisions per details 16 and 17, section
11-19-1 of this title.
         e.   Lamp: Lamp shall be one hundred fifty (150) watt, one hundred
twenty (120) volt LED.
         f.   Cable And Wiring: Cable shall be multiconductor, type RHH-USE
copper with six hundred (600) volt insulation. The outer covering shall be
neoprene jacket compound for direct burial. Minimum wire size shall be no. 10
AWG copper for feeder cable, no. 12 AWG copper for wiring between fuse holder
and luminaries. Individual conductors within cable to have color coded
insulation (or striping) for identification as follows:
 
Black                  120V "hot" leg
White                  Grounded neutral
Green (or bare copper) Grounding conductor
 
         g.   Fuse Holder: HEB-AA line conductor and NET-AA neutral conductor.
         h.   Photocell: Tork no. 2007 (105-277 volt operation).
   R.   Parkway Restoration:
      1.   All parkways within the street's right of way which are to have a
finished earth surface shall be graded with topsoil, sodded and watered.
All parkways between the sidewalk and curb shall be graded so as to have a
minimum cross drainage slope of two percent (2%) to the curb line.
      2.   Unsuitable soil, stumps, boulders, and other debris, including
broken or excess concrete shall be removed from the parkway so as to provide an
acceptable subgrade. Stumps shall be removed to a minimum of twelve inches
(12") below the proposed finished grade.
      3.   After the parkway subgrade has been prepared, acceptable topsoil
material shall be placed to a minimum depth of six inches (6") and graded to
proposed finish surface.
      4.   All parkway earth surfaces shall be sodded/seeded and watered.
   S.   Street And Traffic Signage Plan: The street and traffic signage plan,
including, but not limited to, stop signs, speed limit signs, parking
restriction signs, pedestrian crossing signs, future street connection signs,
pavement markings, directional signs, school crossing signs, and those signs/
markings as may be required by the village engineer and/or police department,
shall be incorporated into a separate plan titled street and traffic signage
plan and submitted as part of the final plat or final plan review process.
The ultimate location of street and traffic signage shall be determined by the
village engineer and police department. The street and traffic signage plan
shall be approved by ordinance by the village board and recorded by the village
clerk. A copy of the approved street and signage plan shall be kept on file in
the village clerk's office and at the police department. Street names to be
approved by the fire department.
      1.   Required Information: The street and traffic signage plan shall
include the following:
         a.   Plan shall use a legend format. The legend must identify sign
type and size and classify each sign with an alphabetical label starting with
"A". Plan shall be detailed using the alphabetical label. An example legend is
included in the village details.
         b.   Signs and pavement markings shall be organized and illustrated in
the legend in accordance with the MUTCD, the IDOT district 1 pavement marking
standards, and approved village details.
         c.   All residential streets shall be posted for twenty five (25) mile
per hour speed limits unless otherwise determined by the police department to
warrant a greater speed limit.
         d.   Village streets with restricted parking shall be signed according
to this code. The signs shall be posted along the applicable street according
to the MUTCD.
         e.   Rights of way less than sixty six feet (66') in width and streets
less than thirty feet (30') in pavement B-B curb width shall be posted for
parking restrictions to one side of the street every three hundred feet (300').
Parking shall be restricted on the fire hydrant side of the street other than
when adjacent to a school or park site. There will be parking allowed on school
or park site side and restricted parking on the opposite side of the roadway,
where street width is less than thirty feet (30').
         f.   Pedestrian crossing signs shall be posted at all school, park and
bike paths/crossings including striping and signage. The W11-2 pedestrian
crossing signs along with the W16-7P arrow indicator will be used. These signs
shall be fluorescent yellow/green in color.
         g.   All signs shall be installed at the developer's expense prior to
issuance of the first building occupancy permit and shall be placed on four (4)
sided breakaway type posts.
         h.   Temporary street signs shall be required prior to the issuance of
the first building permit, as directed by the superintendent of public works.
         i.   The following note shall be included on all preliminary and final
plats and street and traffic signage plans:
Developer shall be responsible for the payment and installation of all
necessary street and traffic signage in quantities and locations to be
determined by the Village Engineer and Police Department.
         j.   Pedestrian stop signs shall be posted at all intersections of
trails with roadways.
         k.   Three (3) red diamond shaped signs shall be posted on all street
stubs. Red, white lettering, high intensity, diamond grade, seven feet (7') to
the bottom of the sign.
         l.   The developer shall provide monies for the purchase and proper
installation of all school zone signs and school zone crossing signs including
posts required to be installed at the time the school site is developed. The
cost of said signs shall be determined by the director of public works at the
time of final plat review. Funds shall be provided to the village prior to the
recording of an approved final plat.
            (1)   Street name signs shall be furnished and installed by the
developer at all street intersections at the developer's expense. Street name
signs shall be of type that is standard with the village and shall be approved
and installed as directed by the village's superintendent of public works.
            (2)   Traffic and pedestrian control signs such as "Stop" signs,
parking signs, pedestrian walk signs, etc., will be furnished and installed by
the developer. The cost of said traffic and pedestrian control shall be
included in the developer's improvement irrevocable letter of credit.
         m.   All traffic signals shall include an "Opticon" (or approved
equal) preemptive device.
         n.   "No Parking Fire Lane" striping and signage shall be provided in
all commercial areas in which traffic flow is adjacent to the front entries of
the development.
         o.   The plan shall include approved street names. Commercial
developments shall label interior commercial roads as "road" A, B, C, etc.
         p.   The median (stay right) signs R4-7 shall be posted where raised
medians exist in residential and commercial developments.
         q.   The plan shall include a diagram in accordance with the village
approved detail for right in/right out access locations.
         r.   All approved street and traffic signage plans shall be provided
to the building commissioner in duplicate in reduced eleven inches by seventeen
inches (11" x 17") and full size twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36") scaled formats for recording purposes.
      2.   Timing Of Installation Of Street And Traffic Signage: The street and
traffic signage in the approved plan, or in an approved portion or phase of the
plan, shall be installed and/or activated prior to the issuance of any
"conditional occupancy" or "certificate of occupancy" in that approved plan, or
approved portion or phase of the plan.
   T.   Pavement Marking: Where required for control and safety of vehicular
and pedestrian traffic, and as directed by the village, pavement markings shall
be placed on the pavement by the developer at his or her expense, in
conformance with the Illinois department of transportation's "Manual On Uniform
Traffic Control Devices".
   U.   Other Traffic Control And Safety Devices:
      1.   At intersections where the existing or proposed traffic warrants,
traffic control signals shall be installed at the developer's expense in
accordance with the Illinois department of transportation requirements. All
traffic control signals shall be equipped with an approved infrared (strobe
light) traffic preemption system as approved by the Winfield fire protection
district.
      2.   Where required for vehicular safety, guardrailing, retaining walls,
berms, guard posts, etc., shall be installed by the developer at his or her
expense as directed by the village.
   V.   Traffic Calming: All design of subdivision to subdivision street
connections or long straight local road segments shall incorporate traffic
calming design elements as recommended by the federal highway administration
and ITE (reference: www.ITE.org/traffic) review including reduction in street
width, at engineered locations additional landscaping, speed tables, and paver
accents at pedestrian crossings, to discourage cut through traffic or where
recommended by the traffic study.
   W.   Utility Service Locations: Curb and gutter shall be stamped designating
location of water service ("W") or sanitary service ("S"). (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-
5-2015)
11-3-8: SITE GRADING AND DRAINAGE:
   A.   General Requirement: The excavation, the filling, or any combination
thereof, of any lot or parcel within any subdivision shall be in accordance
with the approved grading plan submitted as part of engineering plans for said
subdivision. No appreciable change to the lot grading shall be allowed without
the review and consent of the village engineer.
   B.   Drainage Overlay: A reproducible mylar drainage overlay drawing with
certificate, as required by the Illinois plat act, shall be submitted to the
village for approval with the final engineering plans. The drainage overlay
drawing shall be at the same scale as the final subdivision plat with
designated critical lots noted.
   C.   Contents Of The Grading Plan: The grading plan shall include the
following:
      1.   Bench mark locations and other control elevations based on USGS
datum.
      2.   Existing and proposed contour lines at a minimum of one foot (1')
contour intervals, based upon detailed field verification of ground surface
elevations by the design firm of record.
      3.   Site and any affected adjoining properties' drainage showing
existing and proposed channels, swales, lakes, ponds, and structures with
control elevations, slopes and cross sections. All existing field tiles shall
be located to the property limits, for incorporation into storm sewer plans.
      4.   Top of foundation elevations and any opening elevations below top of
the foundation for any existing or proposed buildings.
      5.   Finished ground surface elevations at foundation corners, lot
corners, top of curbs at property lines extended, drainage inlet structures,
and at other ground control points.
      6.   The parcel drainage shall be designed to flow away from the top of
the foundations. Stormwater being directed to the side yard of the parcel shall
be directed into a formed drainage swale, having a minimum slope of two percent
(2%) in front yard areas, one and one-half percent (11/2%) for all rear yard
(and side yard swales to rear) and a maximum slope of six percent (6%). In the
event that conditions dictate that some parts of the lot be higher than the
structure foundation, the grading plan must show specific drainage
configurations for the parcel specifying that all drainage is to be directed to
flow away from the foundation in an acceptable manner.
      7.   Back lot line swales shall be graded to a positive outlet or inlet
structure at a minimum flow line slope of one and one-half percent (11/2%) and
shall have side slopes of six to one (6:1) or flatter. An inlet shall be
provided along a rear yard swale at a maximum two hundred twenty five feet
(225') spacing.
      8.   Construction and work such as walkways, driveways, landscaping or
any structure shall be installed so that the construction of same will not
interfere with drainage. All sidewalks, driveways, patios and other flat work
shall be at an elevation relative to the foundation wall so that water will
drain away from the structure on all sides and off the lot in a manner which
will provide reasonable freedom from erosion and permanently pocketed surface
water.
      9.   The flow from off site tributary areas that are tributary to an
intermittent stream or overflow route that must pass through the parcel must be
identified on the grading plan and must be designed in such a way to adequately
convey the flow of all surface water for a 100-year storm frequency without
damage to adjoining structures.
      10.   All overflow routes for the 100-year storm and for accumulated
stormwater runoff from several lots or from off site catchment areas must be
clearly designated on the grading plan with the total width of the flow route
contained within an easement for drainage purposes. Engineering grading plans
shall call out the 100-year overflow elevation for all overflow tributary areas
in excess of five (5) acres. Overflow routes shall be sized for one and one-
half cfs/tributary acre, or the calculated peak discharge for the 100-year 24-
hour event, whichever is greater. The water surface elevation at overflow shall
be one foot (1') below the lowest opening of adjacent structures for tributary
areas less than or equal to twenty (20) acres and two feet (2') below the
lowest opening for tributary areas greater than twenty (20) acres. All on site
overflows shall convey runoff to the proposed detention basin.
      11.   Critical parcels and lots shall be noted on the grading plan. All
revisions noted, dated, and "clouded" to document.
   D.   Grading Classification Of Lots: In a subdivision or a planned unit
development, all rough grading within a given block (or area) must be completed
prior to the issuance of any building permits. The developer shall certify in
writing that all rough grading is complete within a given block, watershed or
other area in strict conformity with the grading plan as approved by the
village. The village engineer, or his or her designee, shall verify grading is
complete and so notify the village before building can proceed. All proposed
drainageways, swales, detention facilities, lot and block grading shall be
complete to ensure minimum effect and disturbance upon properties adjoining
said development or other portions within the development.
      1.   Critical Parcels: Those parcels designated as "critical" within said
development (as designated and listed on the preliminary engineering plan),
shall have a "building spot survey" performed immediately after the foundation
has been poured and backfilled to ensure compliance with building setback
requirements and to ensure that elevations of any openings in the foundation
are in conformance with the approved grading plan requirements of high water
restrictions as they relate to the grading plan or stormwater management plan.
At the same time, the developer will ensure that the drainage pattern on a
particular parcel has not been altered during the course of the foundation
construction and backfilling so as to adversely affect the overall drainage
plan. Any improper grading deemed by the village engineer to be a potential
hazard to any property shall be corrected immediately upon his or her direction
or shall be cause for suspension of work on the parcel.
After the structure on a parcel is substantially completed and final grading is
completed, the builder shall furnish an occupancy survey signed and sealed by a
licensed professional engineer or licensed surveyor to certify that the final
ground elevations are in strict compliance with the elevations indicated on the
approved grading plan.
The developer shall be responsible for the grading of each lot or parcel
through all stages of construction to ensure that drainage from tributary areas
is not blocked or hindered and that servient property is protected from damage
by providing proper grading to a storm drainage facility in accordance with the
approved grading plan.
      2.   Standard Parcels: Those parcels not designated as "critical" shall
be considered as "standard" parcels within said development, and shall have a
"building spot survey" performed immediately after the foundation has been
poured and backfilled to ensure compliance with building setback requirements
and to ensure that rough grading has been substantially completed, so that all
drainage flows away from the building to side yards, front yards or rear yards
in conformance with the approved grading plan. The village engineer, or his or
her designated representative, shall visually inspect all standard parcels at
the time rough grading is substantially complete to ensure that yard areas have
been rough graded properly before work is allowed to continue beyond the
foundation point.
After the structure on a parcel is substantially completed and final grading is
complete, the builder shall furnish an occupancy survey signed by a licensed
professional engineer to certify that final ground elevations are in strict
compliance with the elevations indicated on the approved grading plan. The
builder shall pay fee at this time, and survey shall be provided five (5)
working days before requested occupancy date.
      3.   Exceptions: In those cases where conditions, in the opinion of the
village engineer, do not permit compliance with the approved grading plan, a
revised grading plan must be submitted to the village in the same detail as the
original submission requires. In the case of those parcels that need additional
detail, the same shall be provided as required by the village engineer.
   E.   Mass Grading: All site mass grading shall comply with the DuPage soil
and water conservation district (KDSWCD) permit requirements. All lots shall be
stabilized with seed in accordance with the stormwater ordinance two (2) weeks
after the grading is complete.
   F.   Stockpile: Dirt stockpile(s) shall be located at a site (or sites) on
the property which are mutually acceptable pursuant to the approved mass
grading plan which must be reduced to writing and approved by the village prior
to the actual grading to be conducted in conjunction with each phase of the
development. No dirt stockpiles shall be allowed to remain in the development
phase after the completion of the last structure in that development phase, and
no occupancy permit shall be issued for the last structure in the development
phase until all dirt stockpiles are removed from that phase. All dirt
stockpiles shall be removed for each phase no later than three (3) years after
the first building permit is issued for that phase or prior to the issuance of
the last occupancy permit in the phase, whichever is first to occur. Developer
shall abide by the village's weed control ordinance in maintaining each dirt
stockpile; and any dirt stockpile that remains in the same place longer than
two (2) weeks must be seeded or sodded and maintained in that condition for the
remainder of the term of that stockpile. No dirt may be stockpiled on a park
site. Dirt stockpiles must be maintained in such a way as to minimize the
height and to minimize the danger to children, including the removal of all
potentially harmful debris. In no event shall a dirt stockpile be left
unattended. No dirt stockpile may be located within two hundred feet (200') of
the perimeter of the subdivision and no dirt stockpile shall exceed twenty five
feet (25') in height, or a gradient ration of two to one (2:1). (Ord. 2015-02-
05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-9: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
All utility lines for telephone, electric service, and cable television shall
be placed underground entirely throughout a subdivided area. Said conduits or
cables shall be placed within easements or dedicated public ways, in a manner
which will not conflict with other underground services. Further, all
transformer boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to
the public. All utility transformers or above grade cabinets shall submit
detailed engineering plans for staff review of sight distance criteria,
screening requirements, and separation from existing public utilities. The
utility lines shall be parallel to and not less than eighteen inches (18") from
the property lines. Corner property markers shall not be disturbed by the
installation of utility lines. All storm sewers to be televised after all
utilities have been installed and restoration is completed prior to
acknowledgement of substantial completion. As built utility plans shall be
provided to the village of Winfield, ComEd, NiCor, SBC, and Comcast Cable (or
other as applicable) upon completion. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-10: STORM SEWERS AND SUMP PUMP DRAINS:
   A.   An adequate system of stormwater drainage shall be constructed and
installed, consisting of pipes, stormwater detention facilities, tiles, swales,
manholes, inlets and other necessary facilities that will adequately drain the
subdivision and protect roadway pavements and buildings from flooding.
   B.   Computations for the storm sewer system for on site and off site
drainage shall be presented with the preliminary plat for approval.
   C.   The drainage system shall include underground piping for sump pump
connections. Said piping (4 inches minimum) shall extend from either the front
or rear of each building lot to the storm sewer system and include manholes
and/or cleanouts for maintenance purposes. The sump pump drainage system shall
be subject to the approval of the village engineer.
   D.   All storm sewer runoff from adjacent areas shall be received and
conveyed through the subdivision.
   E.   Whenever any stream or important surface drainage course is located in
any area which is being subdivided, the subdivider shall reserve an adequate
drainage right of way as determined by the village and the Illinois department
of transportation, division of water resources along each side of the stream
for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping, improving, or protecting the
stream.
   F.   The storm sewer system shall be designed in accordance with the
rational method (with runoff coefficient "C" values to be 0.25 for pervious and
0.95 for impervious areas) using a 10-year storm frequency or other methods
approved by the village engineer. Intensities shall be determined from the
Illinois state water survey bulletin 70 as summarized below. The time of
concentration shall be computed using worksheet three as published in the
USDNNRCS TR-55. Culvert design and capabilities shall be determined according
to the Illinois department of highways standard design methods using a 25-year
storm frequency.
      ILLINOIS STATE WATER SURVEY BULLETIN 70
      RAINFALL DEPTHS FOR NORTHEAST SECTIONAL
Duration Frequency
         1-Year 2-Year 5-Year 10-Year 25-Year 50-Year 100-Year
Duration  Frequency
          1-Year 2-Year 5-Year 10-Year 25-Year 50-Year 100-Year
5 minute  0.30   0.36   0.46   0.54    0.66    0.78    0.91
10 minute 0.55   0.67   0.84   0.98    1.21    1.42    1.67
15 minute 0.68   0.82   1.03   1.21    1.49    1.75    2.05
30 minute 0.93   1.12   1.41   1.65    2.04    2.39    2.80
1 hour    1.18   1.43   1.79   2.10    2.59    3.04    3.56
2 hour    1.48   1.79   2.24   2.64    3.25    3.82    4.47
3 hour    1.60   1.94   2.43   2.86    3.53    4.14    4.85
6 hour    1.88   2.28   2.85   3.35    4.13    4.85    5.68
12 hour   2.18   2.64   3.31   3.89    4.79    5.62    6.59
18 hour   2.30   2.79   3.50   4.11    5.06    5.95    6.97
24 hour   2.51   3.04   3.80   4.47    5.51    6.46    7.58
48 hour   2.70   3.30   4.09   4.81    5.88    6.84    8.16
72 hour   2.93   3.55   4.44   5.18    6.32    7.41    8.78
120 hour  3.25   3.93   4.91   5.70    6.93    8.04    9.96
240 hour  4.12   4.95   6.04   6.89    8.18    9.38    11.14
 
   G.   All manholes, catch basins, inlets, pipe, frames and grates shall be of
the type approved by the village engineer. Storm sewer shall be reinforced
concrete pipe (RCP) conforming to ASTM C-76, wall thickness B. All storm sewers
shall be placed within public rights of way or public utility easements. Storm
sewers in side yards shall be avoided if at all possible and shall be subject
to approval by the village engineer. Lids shall have the words "STORM" and
"VILLAGE OF WINFIELD" cast on the top. Two feet (2') of cover above the top of
pipe shall be provided for all storm sewers. Grates are required on all flared
end sections.
   H.   Intercepting stormwater structures, including catch basins and inlets,
shall be provided at intervals not in excess of two hundred seventy five (275)
maximum feet, as measured along the flow line. The stormwater drainage system
shall be separate and independent of the sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers
and appurtenant structures shall be constructed in accordance with the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", published by the
Illinois department of transportation. All storm sewers to be televised prior
to acceptance.
   I.   No water from footing tiles or basement sumps shall be pumped or
discharged onto the ground surface. Such water discharge pipes shall be
discharged directly into storm sewer system.
      1.   Construction of discharge piping from footing tiles and sump pumps,
of storm sewers, and of appurtenant structures shall be in accordance with ICC,
edition in force by the village.
      2.   Pipe material for discharge pipe from house and secondary drainage
system shall be PVC with a minimum SDR of 35, ASTM 3034, four inch (4") minimum
for sump pump pick up, and ten inch (10") diameter secondary storm sewer if
only sump discharge is collected.
      3.   A piping shall be laid on a uniform grade with minimum grade of one-
fourth inch (1/4") per foot and a minimum depth of cover of three feet (3').
      4.   A minimum four inch (4") diameter pipe shall service the house or
building. The four inch (4") pipe may be installed along a common lot line and
service two (2) houses or buildings. Said four inch (4") line shall be
furnished with a cleanout at its terminus. Note that a six inch (6") diameter
line shall be required for two (2) or more house connections.
      5.   A minimum four inch (4") diameter pipe shall connect the junction
box to the storm sewer system. If two (2) sump pump connections are joined, a
six inch (6") diameter PVC SDR 35 line shall extend from that point. No more
than two (2) lines may be joined. A minimum ten inch (10") diameter pipe shall
be used as secondary drainage extension. In no case shall a small diameter sump
line extend to discharge at a swale or basin. All sump discharge connections
shall be to public RCP storm sewer line only.
      6.   Dead ends of storm systems shall be provided with a minimum twenty
four inch (24") diameter precast concrete inlet for cleanout purposes. Design
approved by the village engineer.
      7.   Any connection between house sump pump discharge pipe and the
secondary drainage system and between the secondary drainage system and storm
sewer system shall be made with factory made fittings, wyes and tees. No cut in
of piping will be allowed. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-11: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Required Stormwater Management Facilities: The controlled release and
storage of excess stormwater runoff shall be required in the DuPage County
stormwater ordinance and technical manual. All stormwater submittals shall be
accompanied by the DuPage County stormwater permit application and applicable
sections as required by the permit.
   B.   Timing Of As Builts And Restoration: All stormwater management areas
shall be as constructed field verified immediately upon fine grading, with
signed and sealed survey submitted. Upon written approval by the village
engineer, all sod, seed and soil erosion blanket to be placed.
   C.   Unhindered Conveyance To Excess Stormwater Facility: A natural or
manmade channel system shall be designed with adequate capacity to convey the
stormwater runoff from all tributary upstream areas through or around the
development. This system shall be designed to safely carry the 100-year runoff
peak generated from a 100-year, 24-hour type II storm. Design of this system
shall also take into consideration control of stormwater velocity to prevent
erosion or other damage to the facility which will restrict its primary use. In
the event that the area within this bypass channel is reshaped or restricted
for use as a floodway, the appropriate governmental agency will cause removal
or require the removal of such restrictions at the expense of the party or
parties causing said restriction.
Should the development contain an existing natural waterway, this land
configuration shall be preserved as part of the bypass channel system. All
channels or ditches used in the bypass channel system shall have a maximum side
slope ratio of four horizontal to one vertical (4:1), and a bottom width
adequate to facilitate maintenance and carry the flood or storm runoff without
eroding velocities and shall be included in the plans for land development.
   D.   Method Of Calculating Stormwater Storage Volume: The required volume
for stormwater detention shall be calculated by means of an event hydrograph
and flood routing method per the DuPage County stormwater ordinance. This
volume shall be provided for the excess stormwater runoff that is tributary to
the area designated for detention purposes. The stormwater release rate and
tailwater condition shall be considered when calculating the stormwater storage
actual volume requirement. The control structure shall be designed to not
exceed the stormwater release rate. Storage capacity obtained by excavating the
natural ground within the 100-year floodplain may not be considered effective
for stormwater management. Incremental pond volumes shall be calculated using
the conic method (frustum of general cone volume) as follows:
Incremental Volume - 1/3 (Elevation 1-Elevation 2) * [Area 1 + Area 2 + sq rt
(Area 1 + Area 2)]
Calculations shall be submitted for approval with the preliminary plat showing
the method and parameters used in the determination of the basin size and
calculations of the volume and area intended to be utilized on the site. The
preliminary plat shall delineate the area to be used for the detention basin as
set forth in the submitted calculations.
Public access by easement to and over all detention areas, and a perimeter
easement shall be granted to the village and recorded in the subdivision plat,
as the village may deem necessary for access. In lieu of a public entity
accepting ownership of the detention facility, such detention areas shall be
maintained by a special service taxing district or homeowners' association
comprising the entire subdivision.
   E.   Retention: Retention shall be provided below the outlet elevation and
shall be planted with native wetland plants per the DuPage County stormwater
ordinance or other BMPs provided.
   F.   Safety Ledges: Safety ledges shall be provided for all wet detention
ponds deeper than three feet (3') and shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in
width.
   G.   Secondary Use Of Detention Basin: Normally, dry detention basins may be
designed to serve a secondary purpose such as recreation, open space, or other
types of uses that will not be adversely affected by occasional flooding. Dry
portions of detention ponds shall have a minimum ground slope of two percent
(2%).
   H.   Maximum Depth Of Water Storage And Minimum Freeboard: Maximum depths of
planned stormwater storage within detention ponds shall not exceed the
allowable fluctuation in water depth due to site topography and the outlet
elevation. The minimum freeboard (elevation difference between 100-year design
water level and top of berm) shall be one foot (1'). It shall be the
responsibility of the design professional engineer of record to provide slope
stability analysis. The elevation at the storage facility high water line shall
not create a tailwater which inundates the adjoining upstream property owner
greater than predevelopment conditions and shall be a minimum of two feet (2')
below any adjacent structures' lowest opening. The storage facility normal
water line elevation shall be a minimum of two feet (2') below the basement
floor elevation of any nearby structure.
   I.   Side Slope And Emergency Overflow: The maximum interior and exterior
side slopes of the pond berm shall be four (4) units horizontally to one unit
vertically. If slopes greater than four to one (4:1) are necessary to meet
storage requirements or area restrictions, approval shall be obtained from the
engineer for the village, and erosion control shall be provided in addition to
the protection required to ensure public health, safety, and welfare. Design of
shoreline shall be per the village standard detail.
   J.   Protection Of Detention Basins: Detention basins next to roads that
will exceed four feet (4') in depth shall be protected from vehicular traffic
entering the basin by wooden guardrails or nine inch (9") barrier type curb.
   K.   Outlet Control Structures: Outlet control structures installed shall
require little or no maintenance or attention for proper operation. Each
stormwater storage area shall be provided with a method of emergency overflow
in the event that a storm in excess of the 100-year return frequency storm
occurs. This emergency overflow facility shall be designed to function without
maintenance or attention for proper operation and shall become part of the
natural or surface channel system described in the preceding paragraphs.
Hydraulic calculations shall be submitted to substantiate all design features.
Both outlet control structures and emergency overflow facilities shall be
designed and constructed to fully protect the public health, safety, and
welfare. Stormwater runoff velocities shall be kept to a minimum and turbulent
conditions at an outfall control structure will not be permitted without
complete protection for the public safety.
   L.   Storage On Paved Surfaces: Paved surfaces such as parking lots or
streets that are to serve as stormwater storage areas shall have minimum grades
of one percent (1%) and shall be restricted to storage depths of six inches
(6") maximum. Rooftop or street storage shall not be permitted.
   M.   Submission Of Approval Documents: Plans, specifications, and all
calculations for stormwater runoff control as required hereunder, shall be
submitted to the village as part of the review and approval of the improvement
plans.
   N.   Required Stormwater Management Submittals: All submittals as required
by the DuPage County stormwater ordinance and technical manual shall be
provided along with the following:
      1.   Storm sewer sizing tabulation;
      2.   Storm sewer subbasin drainage exhibit with labeled areas,
structures, storm sewer sizes and slopes;
      3.   A disk or CD containing all computer generated input and output
files.
   O.   Sequence Of Construction: The facilities for stormwater runoff control
shall be constructed prior to any site grading, street, or drainage
construction and shall include provisions for siltation control.
   P.   Fee In Lieu: A fee in lieu of detention per article 13 of the DuPage
County stormwater ordinance may be considered. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-12: EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN:
During the construction phase of land development, facilities shall be provided
to prevent the erosion and washing away of the earth. An erosion and sediment
control plan shall be submitted for review and approval along with the
improvement plans and specifications. The plan shall include the minimum
criteria as outlined in the village's current soil erosion control ordinance:
   A.   List of type of soils as indicated on soil conservation service maps or
soils report by a soils engineer.
   B.   Earth movement plan including temporary stockpile locations and
approximate quantities of materials.
   C.   Method(s) of controlling erosion and sedimentation.
These submissions shall be prepared in accordance with the minimum standards
and specifications of the "Illinois Urban Manual", revised February 2002,
contained in "Procedures And Standards For Soil Erosion And Sedimentation
Control In Illinois", October, revised 1981, as may be revised, prepared by the
Northeastern Illinois erosion and sedimentation control steering committee and
adopted by the DuPage soil and water conservation district, which standards and
requirements are incorporated into this title by reference and the DuPage
County stormwater ordinance. The plan commission may waive specific
requirements for the content of submission upon finding that the information
submitted is sufficient to show the work will comply with the objectives and
principles of this title. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-13: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS:
All foundation elevations, proposed grading, stormwater management facilities
and structures shall be designed and constructed in conformance with the DuPage
County stormwater ordinance. As a partial waiver community, all work in special
management areas shall be certified by the county. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-14: FIELD DRAIN TILE SURVEY:
The submission of engineering drawings shall include a completed survey of
field drain tiles within the proposed subdivision and drawings and
specifications of proposed improvements to redirect drain tiles around
conflicting improvements. The survey shall include pipe sizes and depths and
shall be in accordance with current DuPage County ordinances. (Ord. 2015-02-05,
2-5-2015)
11-3-15: WASTEWATER FACILITIES:
   A.   Private disposal systems shall be prohibited, except in ER zoning
areas.
   B.   Wastewater disposal and collection systems shall conform to the
Illinois environmental protection agency.
   C.   All sanitary sewers shall be extended to the property lines of the
tract under development at the developer's expense, sized to provide sanitary
service to the limit of the projected service area, with no recapture.
   D.   All sewer pipe material, size and slope shall be subject to approval of
the engineer for the village.
   E.   All manhole frames and lids shall be waterproof type, self- sealing
with concealed pick holes. Lids shall have the words "SANITARY" and "VILLAGE OF
WINFIELD" cast on the lid. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-16: WATER FACILITIES:
   A.   Water Mains To Be Constructed: When located within the service area of
a public water supply system, water mains as specified by the Winfield water
ordinance or any other applicable village ordinance shall be constructed
throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner as to serve adequately all
lots and tracts with connection to such public system, together with shutoff
valves, fire hydrants, and all equipment installed in the manner prescribed by
the current Winfield water ordinance. Section
8-6-4 of this code prohibits cross connections of private system to public
water system.
   B.   Application For Water Main Extension: At least five (5) sets of the
completed Illinois environmental protection agency (IEPA) application for water
main extension shall be submitted to the village at the same time as submittal
of the final engineering plans and specifications of the subdivision
improvements. Upon execution by the village, the developer shall be responsible
to submit the required documents to IEPA for their review.
   C.   Pressure Testing: Prior to acceptance of the water facilities, all
mains shall be pressure tested by method and pressure approved by the village
engineer. All costs of tests, inspections, and corrections shall be borne by
the developer.
   D.   Water System Required; General Provisions: When located within the
service area of a public water system, water mains not less than eight inches
(8") in inside diameter shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision
in such manner as to serve adequately all lots and tracts with connection to
such public system, together with appurtenant valves, fittings and fire
hydrants. No "dead end" water main will be permitted. Water main extended to
cul-de-sacs shall be extended through side yards as necessary to provide a
complete loop. At least two (2) points of connection to the existing water
system shall be installed to allow continued water service to the subdivision
with one main out of service.
   E.   Valves: Distribution system valves shall conform to AWWA standard no.
C-509, latest revision, for valves up to twelve inches (12") nominal pipe size
(NPS) and shall be of a type and manufacture approved by the village department
of public works and of the nominal size as the water main pipe it will be
installed along. Each valve shall be installed in a valve vault of adequate
size to facilitate removal and replacement of the valve. Lettering on the cast
iron frame and lid shall indicate "WATER" and "VILLAGE OF WINFIELD".
   F.   Water Main Burial Depth: Water main shall have a minimum depth of bury
of five and one-half feet (51/2') as measured from the bottom of adjacent
roadway ditches to top of pipe.
   G.   Water Main Specifications: Water main shall be ductile iron pipe, class
52, or such other classification as approved by the village engineer, on a
project by project basis, and shall be cement lined, polyethylene encased, and
push on or mechanical joint. Fittings and specials shall be ductile iron,
cement lined and shall have mechanical joints.
   H.   AWWA Standards: Water main, valves and fire hydrants shall be furnished
and installed in conformance with current American Water Works Association
standards.
   I.   Fire Hydrants:
      1.   Fire hydrants shall be installed throughout the entire water system
at intervals prescribed by the Winfield fire protection district ordinance.
Calculations shall be submitted to demonstrate the fire flow rates prescribed
by the Winfield fire protection district will be delivered to all sections of
the subdivision while maintaining a minimum pressure of twenty (20) pounds per
square inch measured at the ground surface.
      2.   Fire hydrants shall be installed with an auxiliary valve with cast
iron valve box. Fire hydrants shall conform to American Water Works Association
(AWWA) standard no. C-502, latest revision, and shall be of a type of
manufacture approved by the village department of public works. Fire hydrants
shall have a minimum main valve opening of five and one-fourth inches (51/4")
and shall be provided with two (2) 21/2-inch hose connections and one 41/2-inch
pumper connection. Threads shall be American National Standard. Pumper
connection shall face roadway. One hydrant shall be located at each
intersection and intermediate hydrants shall be provided where distance exceeds
four hundred feet (400') between hydrants. Hydrants shall be located
approximately ten feet (10') from edge of pavement, or if limited by site, the
closest part of the hydrant shall be set back at least two feet (2') from the
curb line. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-17: SANITARY SEWER AND WATER SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Sanitary sewer and water service lines located on the property line
shall be constructed to connect with the utility service mains to serve each
lot, tract or building site; such service stub shall extend from the main to a
point at the property public right of way line of the property to be served for
water service, and one foot (1') beyond ROW line for sanitary service. B-box
shall be adjustable per village standard. The service line shall be of
sufficient size to adequately serve the lot, tract, or building, and design
calculations shall be submitted when requested by the village engineer. The
minimum size service line shall be one inch (1") diameter for water service
lines and six inch (6") diameter for sanitary sewer service lines. The type and
manufacturer of water service line corporation stop and curb stop with box
shall conform with the village standard or as approved by the village engineer.
Curb and gutter shall be stamped designating location of water service ("W") or
sanitary service ("S").
   B.   When possible, all sanitary sewer and water service lines shall be
located at the approximate centerline of the lot or parcel to be served, to
avoid the driveways. The service line end shall be marked with a wooden post
extending at least three feet (3') above finished grade. All water service
boxes shall be adjusted to finished grade prior to acceptance by the village
and shall not be located in driveways or sidewalks.
   C.   House water and sewer services shall be constructed to connect with the
utility service mains constructed within any street or thoroughfare, to serve
each adjoining lot, tract or building site. Such house services shall extend
from the main to a point at least two feet (2') beyond the property line of the
property to be served. Water services shall be a minimum one inch (1") diameter
type "K" copper tubing and shall include Mueller H-1500 corporation stop,
Mueller H-15150 curb stop-coupling, and Mueller H-10300 service box.
   D.   All such house services connected with utility mains constructed within
any street or thoroughfare shall be located at the approximate centerline of
each lot. All service boxes shall be adjusted to finished grade prior to
acceptance by the village.
   E.   Upon completion of the in place construction of all such house service
connections with utility mains, two (2) copies of an accurate map or maps
showing the exact location of all such mains, together with manholes, water
valves, B-boxes and other similar facilities being a part thereof, by distances
in feet from street lines, and of all such house connections in distances in
feet from the side lot lines, approved by the engineer for the village, shall
be filed in the office of the village clerk. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-18: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Any off street parking or loading facilities to be constructed as part of the
proposed subdivision improvements shall conform with the requirements specified
in the village's zoning ordinance. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-3-19: LANDSCAPING AND TREES:
   A.   Tree Preservation: (See chapter 12 of this title.)
      1.   The location and type of all trees larger than four inches (4") in
diameter measured two feet (2') above the ground shall be noted on the grading
plan. Trees to be saved, transplanted, or moved shall be shown either directly
on the grading plan or on an overlay. The village engineer may require changes
to the grading plan or to the preliminary plans if, in his or her opinion, an
essentially equivalent scheme employing tree walls or other such modifications
may save desirable existing trees or other features.
      2.   The intent of this provision is to avoid the unthinking clearing of
a site simply to make it easier to install other improvements. The intent of
this provision is also to conserve as much of the rural or wooded atmosphere of
the village as possible.
      3.   Trees to be preserved shall be determined upon the recommendation of
the village planner based upon tree size, tree species, extent of existing tree
mass, benefit to proposed development (i.e., screening/buffering undesirable
views), and visual quality benefit to the village.
      4.   Trees to be saved that are badly damaged or destroyed by
construction activities shall be replaced by three inch (3") diameter minimum
trees on an inch for inch basis upon recommendation of the village planner and
approval by the plan commission.
   B.   Site Landscaping: All parkways and front yards within the dedicated
street area, drainage easement, or other public common use areas shall be
graded, sodded, and planted in accordance with the village zoning ordinance,
this title, or as directed and approved by the village board.
After lot areas have been graded in accordance with the grading plan, the
ground surface shall be temporarily seeded or planted with ground cover to
control erosion.
   C.   Landscaping Plans: A landscape plan, prepared by a qualified landscape
architect, shall be submitted with all applications for site plan review. The
plan shall be subject to review and recommendation of approval by the village
planner.
      1.   All areas of the site, which are not paved, shall be landscaped with
trees, shrubs, ground cover, and flowers to:
         a.   Slow surface water runoff;
         b.   Restrict blowing trash and litter;
         c.   Deter improper access or site use by the public;
         d.   Improve the visual quality of the site.
      2.   The landscape plan shall include identification of species, size,
and location of plant materials and all other landscape treatments including,
but not limited to:
         a.   Berms;
         b.   Fences;
         c.   Ground covers;
         d.   Ornamental or accent lighting;
         e.   Paving materials;
         f.   Limits of seed and/or sod;
         g.   Entrance treatment.
      3.   Trees and shrubs shall be keyed into a plant list.
      4.   Upon installation, trees shall not be less than the following sizes:
         a.   Shade trees: Two and one-half inch (21/2") caliper, minimum, as
measured twelve inches (12") above grade.
         b.   Evergreen: Six feet (6') tall, minimum.
         c.   Ornamental: Six feet (6') tall, minimum, if multistem. Two and
one-half inches (21/2") in caliper, minimum, if single stem.
      5.   Trees shall be planted throughout the subdivision along proposed
streets, screenings, in common areas, and in open areas meant for use by the
public, and other areas shown on the landscaping plan.
      6.   In street parkways, shade trees shall be planted at an average
interval of forty feet (40'). A minimum of three (3) trees per street frontage
for lots of seventy feet (70') or wider shall be required as approved by the
village administrator.
         a.   Trees shall not be planted within four feet (4') of any sidewalk
or other paved area within the parkway.
         b.   At street intersections, no tree shall be planted within thirty
feet (30') of the nearest right of way line intersection.
         c.   Trees shall not be planted within twenty feet (20') of a proposed
or existing streetlight.
         d.   Shade trees shall not be spaced at intervals less than forty feet
(40'). All single-family lots that are wider than seventy feet (70') shall have
two (2) trees and spacing adjusted accordingly.
         e.   A minimum of three (3) tree species shall be planted randomly per
block.
         f.   Decorative groupings of trees in commercial or multi-family
residential developments may be substituted for interval planting upon review
of the village planner and approval of the plan commission.
      7.   For lots with double frontages, a berming and landscape plan shall
be required to provide screening as deemed appropriate by the plan commission.
      8.   Parkway shade trees shall be selected from the following recommended
species:
Common Name Botanical Name
Common Name                     Botanical Name
American linden                 Tilia americana
Autumn blaze maple              Acer rubrum
Burr oak                        Quercus macroccarpa
Chinkapin oak                   Quercus myehlenbergii
Ginkgo (male only)              Ginkgo biloba
Hackberry                       Celtis occidentalis
Hybrid elm                      Ulmus species
Kentucky coffee tree (male ony) Gymnocladus dioicus
Norway maple                    Acer platanoides
Ornamental pear                 Pyrus calleryana
Red maple                       Acer rubrum
Sugar maple                     Acer saccarum
Swamp white oak                 Quercus bicolor
Sweetgum                        Liquidambar styraciflua
Zelkova                         Zelkova serrata
 
      9.   Other trees that may be considered and approved by the village
include:
 
Common Name           Botanical Name
American hop hornbeam Ostrya virginiana
European hornbeam     Carpinus betulus
Hedge maple           Acer campestre
London plane tree     Platanus acerifolia
Shingle oak           Fagaceae quercus
 
      TABLE 1
      RECOMMENDED PROTECTED TREE SPECIES
Botanic Names Common Names
Botanic Names             Common Names
Abies concolor            White fir
Acer                      Maple: fairview, Norway, Schwedler, sugar hybrids,
                          crimson king
Amelanchier x grandiflora Apple serviceberry
Carya                     Hickory: shagbark, pignut, black, pale, water,
                          bitternut
Catalpa                   Catalpa
Celtis                    Hackberry
Cercis                    Redbud, whitebud - tree form only
Fraxinus                  Ash: white, autumn purple or equivalent hybrid
Ginkgo biloba             Maidenhair
Gleditsia                 Honey locust: imperial, skyline, shademaster or
                          equivalent hybrid
Gymnocladus               Kentucky coffee tree
Juglans                   Walnut
Liriodendron              Tulip tree
Malus                     Crabapple; disease resistant variety, tree form only
Ostrya                    Ironwood
Picea                     Blue spruce, Norway spruce
Pinus                     White pine
Pyrus                     Pear: redspire, chanticleer or equivalent hybrid
Quercus                   Oak: white, swamp, burr, red, English
Syringa reticulate        Japanese lilac tree
Tilia                     Linden (basswood): redmond, little leaf, greenspire
                          or equivalent hybrid
 
Trees designated as nonrecommended trees or unacceptable for use as replacement
trees are listed in table 2 of this section:
      TABLE 2
      LIST OF NONRECOMMENDED TREES
Botanic Names Common Names
Botanic Names          Common Names
Acer negundo           Box elder (ashleaf maple)
Acer saccharinum       Silver maple
Ailanthus altissima    Tree of heaven (Chinese sumac)
Cornus racemosa        Grey dogwood
Elaeagnus angustifolia Russian olive
Ginkgo biloba          Female ginkgo
Morus                  Mulberry
Pinus                  Red pine, Austrian pine
Platanus occidentalis  American sycamore (buttonwood)
Populus                Poplars: white (silver), cottonwood (except cottonless
                       cottonwood)
Rhamnus                Buckthorn: common, glossy
Robinia pseudoacacia   Black locust
Salix                  Willows: weeping
Ulmus parvifolia       Chinese elm (lacebark elm)
Ulmus pumila           Siberian elm
 
   D.   Tree Planting Requirements: Trees selected for planting shall conform
in size and grade to "American Standard For Nursery Stock" (latest edition).
      1.   Each tree to be planted shall have a single, relatively straight
trunk with a minimum trunk diameter of three inches (3") measured at six inches
(6") above ground level.
      2.   Trees shall be balled and burlapped.
      3.   Each tree shall be northern nursery grown and approved by the
village arborist.
      4.   Trees shall have been transplanted twice, the last transplanting
being not less than four (4) years prior to planting.
      5.   All trees shall be tagged and identified as to species, size and
place of origin. Such tags shall not be removed by the developer prior to
inspection by the village.
      6.   Trees shall be planted plumb (after settlement) and at the same
relative height above the finished grade as was their height above grade at the
nursery. Holes shall be backfilled with a planting soil mixture consisting of
three (3) parts friable topsoil and one part peat moss, and shall be thoroughly
watered when the hole is two-thirds (2/3) full. After watering, the filling
shall be completed and the soil thoroughly tamped. After planting, a three inch
(3") mulch of shredded hardwood bark shall be applied over the disturbed
ground, and a shallow watering basin shall be provided around the tree.
      7.   The developer shall be responsible for causing each tree to be
planted in a vertical and plumb position and to maintain each tree to remain in
a vertical and plumb position throughout the guarantee period. All trees shall
be staked and guyed as needed at the time of planting using a bracing procedure
to be approved by the superintendent of public works prior to installation.
      8.   All trees (original or replacement) determined by the village to be
diseased or not in vigorous growing condition after two (2) growing seasons
shall be replaced at the beginning of the next succeeding planting season, at
no cost to the village.
   E.   Areas To Be Graded And Sodded/Seeded:
      1.   All swales draining two (2) or more lots and all parkways shall be
graded and sodded/seeded unless it is determined by the village engineer that
another method of providing ground cover is more practical. The minimum width
of sodding in swales shall be ten feet (10') centered at the centerline of the
swale or to the flow line, whichever is smaller. A swale sodding detail shall
be provided as part of the required sediment and soil erosion plan.
      2.   All front and side yards on residential lots shall be graded and
sodded/seeded.
      3.   Areas to be sodded/seeded shall be cleared of stumps, badly damaged
trees, boulders and other debris. The areas where residential buildings shall
be located shall be graded smooth and compacted. All other areas shall be
retained in as natural a condition as possible with existing soils and
vegetation, except as approved in writing by the superintendent of public
works. A minimum of six inches (6") of topsoil shall be spread on top of the
prepared ground surface.
      4.   All sodding/seeding shall be done in conformance with applicable
sections of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction".
      5.   Sodded/seeded areas shall be maintained and repaired as necessary
until the growth is uniformly well established.
      6.   The developer shall be responsible for protection of the water
service boxes, all service marker boards, all manholes and frames, and curb and
gutter during the final lot grading. Any damages shall be repaired or replaced
immediately at the developer's expense by methods as approved by public works
or the village engineer.
      7.   Sod/seed installation and watering shall be scheduled by homebuilder
in accordance with all other village ordinances in effect at that time.
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015; amd. Ord. 2022-12-14, 12-15-2022)
CHAPTER 4
CONSTRUCTION AND POSTCONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: General Considerations
11-4-2: Preconstruction Meeting
11-4-3: Limited Completion Time For Public Improvements
11-4-4: Construction Observation Of Improvements
11-4-5: Final Inspection
11-4-6: Certifications For Construction Guarantee Reduction
11-4-7: Testing And Inspection For Public Improvements
11-4-8: Record Drawings
11-4-9: Developer Responsibility During Development Of Subdivision
11-4-1: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   The developer shall be represented by a project engineer to observe the
construction of the public improvements, to provide construction guidance, to
certify construction in conformance with the approved improvement plans and
specifications, to review and certify the quantities of work items on any
reductions in the construction guarantee, witness required tests in the
presence of the village engineer, and to prepare record drawings. All
inspection reports of the project engineer and test results shall be submitted
to the village prior to final acceptance.
   B.   The village engineer will conduct periodic observations of the public
improvements, witness the tests (outlined in section
11-4-7 of this chapter) of the public improvements, review and recommend action
relative to construction guarantee, advise the village of potential problems,
conduct semifinal and final inspections of the improvements. The developer
shall reimburse the village for all services and costs of the engineer for the
village incurred by the village. If the village determines through periodic
observations of construction by the village engineer, or unsatisfactory test
results, that insufficient inspections by the project engineer were being
conducted, the village will authorize the village engineer to conduct resident
project representative services with all costs reimbursed by the developer to
the village.
The following shall be provided by the developer concurrent with the startup of
residential permits:
      1.   All streets shall have temporary (4 x 4) street name signs in place
before construction of any buildings begins.
      2.   All lots in a subdivision shall have posted, at all times, the lot
number on each salable property.
      3.   After the first unit is occupied, the developer shall be responsible
for the cleaning of the streets at least weekly. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-4-2: PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
Prior to beginning the installation of any improvements, the developer, the
project engineer, and general contractor shall attend a preconstruction meeting
with village staff, village engineer and the appropriate highway authorities.
The purpose of the meeting is to review acceptable site development and
construction practices in accordance with the construction control plan and
village ordinances and policies. Following the preconstruction meeting and
posting of construction guarantee, the developer may begin construction of land
improvements. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-4-3: LIMITED COMPLETION TIME FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Construction of all required public improvements must be completed as
follows:
      1.   All underground improvements, including sanitary, water main, storm
sewer, and stormwater management, within two (2) years from the date of final
plat approval; and
      2.   All other public improvements, including streets, sidewalks, parkway
trees and all other required improvements, within four (4) years from the date
of final plat approval or when the development or identified phase is seventy
five percent (75%) built out, whichever is earlier. For purposes of this
provision, a development or identified phase shall be considered seventy five
percent (75%) built out when seventy five percent (75%) of the buildable lots
have been sold to third parties.
   B.   The time for completion of the required parkway trees and sidewalks may
be extended by written application of the developer to the village board, and
the village board may extend the time for the completion of the required public
improvements if, in the sole discretion of the village board, good cause has
been shown for the delay or need for additional time. A request for extension
shall not halt the running of the time period.
   C.   A request for extension must be accompanied by an updated written
estimate, approved by the village engineer, of the cost to complete the
remaining public improvements, and no extension shall be granted unless the
surety guaranteeing completion of the public improvements has been updated to
reflect the estimate of cost to complete the improvements and that surety is
received and approved by the village board. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-4-4: CONSTRUCTION OBSERVATION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
During the course of construction, the developer shall provide construction
observation of the work in order to ensure compliance with the approved plans
and specifications and according to good engineering and construction
practices. A diary shall be kept by the developer and field reports, as
required, shall be made and copied to the village engineer or designated
representative. The construction observation of the work may also be done by
the village as set forth in subsection 11-4-1B of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-02-
05, 2-5-2015)
11-4-5: FINAL INSPECTION:
The village superintendent of public works, village engineer in the presence of
the developer and/or his or her representative, and contractors shall make a
final inspection of the completed work, and shall, thereafter, report their
findings and recommendations to the village board. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-4-6: CERTIFICATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION GUARANTEE REDUCTION:
Prior to the village authorizing any construction guarantee reduction the
developer shall submit to the village engineer a request for said reduction
along with certification from the developer and signed and sealed by his or her
project engineer that the public improvements included under the construction
guarantee have been constructed in substantial compliance with the village
approved improvement plans and specifications. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-4-7: TESTING AND INSPECTION FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Public Improvements: Public improvements consisting of street's
pavement structure, concrete curb and gutter, concrete sidewalks, water, and
sanitary sewers shall be tested and inspected.
   B.   Tests Regarding Street's Pavement Structure:
      1.   The following soil tests are required and must be certified by an
independent soil testing service:
         a.   During preparation of subgrade, compaction nuclear tests shall be
performed at maximum two hundred foot (200') intervals to confirm proper
compaction in accordance with the standards for street construction set forth
in this title.
         b.   During preparation of aggregate base course, compaction nuclear
tests shall be performed at maximum two hundred foot (200') intervals to
confirm proper compaction in accordance with the standards for street
construction set forth in this title.
      2.   Proof rolling tests shall be conducted in the presence of the
village engineer:
         a.   After the foregoing subbase compaction testing has been completed
and prior to the time the foregoing aggregate base compaction tests are
performed.
      3.   After the aggregate base course has been prepared as detailed in
section
11-3-7 of this title any areas which, in the opinion of the village engineer,
show a failure in the base, shall be dug out, replaced with acceptable compound
granular material, and retested (proof roll test) until approved by the village
engineer. At the option of the developer, geotextile fabric or lime
stabilization can be used and may be required if satisfactory proof roll test
results cannot be achieved.
      4.   If, in the opinion of the village engineer, areas are observed which
pose a significant threat of premature failure, extraction tests, as specified
by the Illinois department of transportation, may be required.
      5.   Coring shall be performed at random areas selected by the village
engineer to confirm the specified thickness of the aggregate base and binder
courses. This coring shall be done in the presence of the engineer for the
village and may be conducted by the contractor or an independent testing
service.
   C.   Tests Regarding Water Improvements: The following water service tests
are required and, where indicated, shall be conducted in the presence of the
village engineer:
      1.   Bacteriological test of water samples taken from completed water
mains. Samples shall be taken by the developer in the presence of the village
and given to the village for sampling.
      2.   Water main pressure test (in presence of village engineer).
   D.   Tests Regarding Sanitary Sewer Improvements: The following sanitary
sewer service tests are required and, where indicated, shall be conducted in
the presence of the village engineer:
      1.   Leakage air test as required by IEPA of completed sanitary sewer (in
presence of village engineer).
      2.   Coordinate TV testing of sanitary sewer with water running through
the sewer and provide copies of the results recorded on a DVD disc (in presence
of village engineer), along with the video logs.
      3.   Mandrel deflection testing for (PVC) flexible thermoplastic pipe (in
presence of village engineer) thirty (30) days after installation.
      4.   Manhole vacuum testing at ten (10) in/Hg (in presence of village
engineer).
   E.   Tests Regarding Concrete Curb And Gutter And Sidewalks Improvement: All
concrete shall be 6-bag class SI (formerly class X), four thousand (4,000) psi
concrete, or alternately compression test cylinders shall be made and tested
for all portland cement concrete curb and gutter, sidewalks and pavement. A
minimum of four (4) cylinders shall be provided, with four (4) additional
cylinders for each twenty four (24) cubic yards poured.
   F.   Curb Removal And Replacement Policy: All curb removal limits to be
joint to joint. All replacement is to be doweled and reinforced per standard
detail. Any section containing a stress or impact crack to be fully removed.
Any section that has settled or deflected 0.02 feet or more to be removed. Any
chip or spall of five (5) square inches or more, and deeper than one-fourth
inch (1/4") shall be fully removed. Shotcrete application shall not be allowed
as a repair.
Note: In general, small removal sections are not structurally desirable.
   G.   Notice To Village Engineer: Whenever testing is required by this title
to be performed in the presence of the village engineer, developer shall
provide a minimum of forty eight (48) hours' notice to the engineer of the time
such tests are scheduled to take place. If such notice is not provided,
retesting may be required. Any tests not witnessed by the village engineer
shall be redone.
   H.   Delivery Of Test Results To Village Engineer: The costs of the
following tests to be borne by the developer:
      1.   Soil Test Report: Copies of all soil tests and reports required by
this title and other such reports shall be delivered to the village engineer at
his or her regular place of business or at the village hall, as the engineer
may designate, prior to initiation of any construction.
      2.   Compaction Test Reports: Copies of all compaction test reports
required by this title shall be delivered to the engineer for the village
within seven (7) days following the completion of these tests.
      3.   Certified Compression Test Reports: Copies of all compression test
reports required by this title shall be delivered to the village engineer
within seven (7) days following the completion of these tests.
   I.   Inspection And Reports: The engineer for the developer shall perform
such inspections of the public improvements and materials as may be necessary
to allow the engineer to certify that all public improvements and materials are
constructed and supplied in accordance with the plans and specifications
approved by the village.
Copies of all inspection reports prepared by the engineer for the developer and
detailing the engineer's observations and work completed during the engineer's
inspection visits and recording the date and time of those visits shall be
furnished to the village.
If the developer's engineers' inspection reports disclose an inadequate number
and frequency of inspections is being conducted in accordance with good
engineering standards and practice, then the developer shall become liable for
all inspection fees incurred by the village for inspections by the village
engineer without limitation and the developer shall be required to deposit with
the village within fourteen (14) days after invoicing, the full amount of all
anticipated inspection charges yet unpaid and exceeding existing credit
balance. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-4-8: RECORD DRAWINGS:
   A.   During construction an accurate record of all construction work
performed shall be kept by the developer. Upon substantial completion and prior
to acceptance by the village of the public improvements, the developer shall
submit to the village "record drawings" signed and sealed by a professional
engineer showing complete "as constructed" information for all the relevant
improvements in both hard and electronic format.
      1.   The record drawings for underground improvements shall include
sanitary, water main, storm sewer, and stormwater management; the ends of all
water, sanitary sewer and sump pump service lines shall be accurately located
so they can be located in the future; and the final elevations and storage
volume for stormwater storage facilities shall be shown.
      2.   The record drawings for streets may be submitted after substantial
completion of the binder course and shall include all of the improvement
detail, including, but not necessarily limited to, curbs, street lighting,
electrical, gas, telecom/cable, and other utilities.
   B.   The record, as constructed drawings, shall be timely phased and
sequentially submitted as outlined herein.
The developer shall, immediately upon substantial completion of sanitary sewer
system, submit as constructed drawings detailing invert elevations, lengths,
and slopes. Stormwater management facilities shall also be separately as built
verified including elevation/storage calculation table, NWL, HWL, required
volume, provided volume, required retention, provided detention, major inflow/
outflow storm sewer, overflow and orifice restrictor structure detail.
Final comprehensive record drawings shall be prepared and sealed by a
registered professional engineer and shall contain thereon a signed and PE
sealed certification that all improvements have been constructed in accordance
with the approved final engineering plans or with approved changes thereto. The
village reserves the right to complete record drawings at developer's expense
from the surety.
The record drawings furnished to the village by the developer shall consist of
one set of reproducible mylar drawings and two (2) sets of prints or copies.
   C.   Record drawings must be submitted no later than the time of substantial
completion and as a condition for triggering the one year maintenance period
and reduction of the letter of credit to the one year maintenance amount
(section
11-5-5 of this title) and in no event shall any public improvements be accepted
without complete and accurate record drawings. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-4-9: DEVELOPER RESPONSIBILITY DURING DEVELOPMENT OF SUBDIVISION:
The developer that subdivides property, or its transferee, bears the primary
responsibility for the development of the subdivision, and those
responsibilities shall include the following:
   A.   A subdivision developer shall plant and maintain all parkway trees and
grass and maintain any hard surface driveway aprons within public right of way
areas across private frontage for each individual lot in the subdivision until
an individual lot is improved and/or sold to a third party, at which point the
maintenance of the planted parkway trees and grass and driveway aprons shall
become the individual lot owner's responsibility; except that the sale or other
transfer of a lot to another developer or builder shall not relieve the
original developer of the primary obligation for parkway trees and driveway
aprons.
   B.   All undeveloped, buildable lots in a subdivision shall have posted, at
all times, the lot number clearly visible on each lot.
   C.   All common areas and individual lots of the subdivision shall be
maintained free from weeds or plant growth in excess of eight inches (8").
   D.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit in any phase of a
subdivision, temporary street signs consisting of a minimum of six foot (6')
four by four (4 x 4) post with street name sign shall be placed to clearly
identify each street at each intersection throughout such phase of the
subdivision.
   E.   Prior to the issuance of any occupancy permit in any phase of a
subdivision:
      1.   All permanent street signs conforming to village standards shall be
placed to clearly identify each street at each intersection;
      2.   All streetlights shall be installed and operational; and
      3.   All required traffic control devices shall be installed in
compliance with state warrants for each particular device.
   F.   Prior to, and as a condition of the approval and recording of a final
plat, any required declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions must
be recorded in conjunction with the final plat, and any required owners'
association shall be established.
   G.   By and as a condition of requesting an occupancy permit or selling off
and transferring any lot in any phase of a subdivision, the developer thereby
shall be deemed to have consented to the enforcement of local and state vehicle
code provisions in, on and around the streets in the subdivision, and the
village police department shall patrol and enforce the local and state vehicle
codes, which patrolling and enforcement shall not constitute acceptance of the
streets by the village until all of the requirements for acceptance have been
met as provided in section
11-5-6 of this title.
   H.   Notwithstanding the provision for police patrol and enforcement by the
village, until streets are completed and accepted by the village, the developer
and/or its transferee or assign, shall be responsible for all of the
maintenance of the streets, curbs and associated rights of way, including, but
not limited to, all necessary repairs, cleaning, snowplowing, ice removal and
any and all other maintenance and repairs of the streets in good condition.
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT POLICIES
SECTION:
11-5-1: Registered Professional Engineer
11-5-2: Oversize Design
11-5-3: Off Site Improvements/Existing Infrastructure Modifications
11-5-4: Protection Of Existing Improvements
11-5-5: Substantial Completion And One Year Maintenance Responsibility For
Public Improvements
11-5-6: Acceptance Of Public Improvements
11-5-7: Connections
11-5-8: Site Development Permit
11-5-9: Lot Grading, Stormwater And Erosion Control Compliance
11-5-1: REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER:
All required improvements which will be the responsibility of the village for
maintenance and operation shall be designed and planned by a registered
professional engineer, in the state of Illinois, retained by the developer.
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-5-2: OVERSIZE DESIGN:
Where required in the overall utility planning for water, sewer or streets, or
the official village plan, any subdivision improvement shall be designed and
constructed larger than necessary to serve the immediate subdivision
adequately. This shall apply, but not be limited to: collector sewers, lift
stations, disposal facilities, wells, pumping facilities, water mains, storage
tanks, culverts, storm sewers, and streets. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-5-3: OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS/EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURE MODIFICATIONS:
If it is determined that any existing infrastructure including, but not limited
to, water distribution systems, sanitary sewers, storm sewers or other
stormwater management facilities, roads and curbs and gutters, which may be
situated either in part or entirely off site, is inadequate to facilitate a
proposed subdivision when one hundred percent (100%) built out, then
improvements to any one or all of such facilities will be required. (Ord. 2015-
02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-5-4: PROTECTION OF EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
The developer, his or her contractors, and his or her suppliers shall be
jointly and severally liable for damage of any nature to existing improvements
and village property. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-5-5: SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION AND ONE YEAR MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY FOR
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Every developer shall be responsible for the maintenance of all public
improvements required by this title, and shall post a cash deposit, letter of
credit, or bond to guarantee the completion and maintenance of the public
improvements, for a minimum of one year following substantial completion of the
constructed public improvement as determined pursuant to section
11-5-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Upon acknowledgment of substantial completion and approval to begin the
one year maintenance period by the village board, the developer shall deposit
cash, a letter of credit or bond or continue the existing cash, letter of
credit, or bond in the amount of twenty percent (20%) the original engineer's
estimate to complete the public improvements as and for a guaranty of the
completion of the public improvements and satisfaction of the one year
maintenance obligations, as more specifically set forth in section
11-9-4 of this title.
   C.   The guarantee of completion and maintenance shall recognize the
possibility of maintenance costs, and the terms of the guarantee shall provide
for reimbursement to the village for any maintenance expenses incurred by the
village in performing such work after failure of the developer to perform such
work after due notice, or without notice when immediate action is reasonably
warranted to prevent or avoid potential harm or jeopardy to the health, safety
and welfare of the public.
   D.   The developer's obligation for maintenance of the streets and snow
plowing and removal in any subdivision shall continue until such time as the
streets are accepted by the village or until the village formally accepts
responsibility for snow plowing and removal (subject to reimbursement by the
developer per section
11-9-4 of this title), whichever date is first to occur. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-
2015)
11-5-6: ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
The process by which the village shall accept a public improvement shall be as
follows:
   A.   Initial Determination Of Substantial Completion:
      1.   Developer shall submit a written request for a determination that
public improvements in a subdivision, or an approved phase thereof, have been
substantially completed, along with the record drawings for those public
improvements, if not previously submitted to the village.
      2.   Public improvements may be considered for substantial completion and
the one year maintenance period only if complete throughout the subdivision or
approved phase, with the exception that all of the underground improvements may
be considered separately from the other public improvements.
      3.   The village engineer shall inspect the improvements, determine the
guaranty amount and issue a written determination of substantial completion,
guaranty amount and recommendation to the village board.
      4.   Upon receipt of the engineer's determinations and recommendation,
the village board shall either reject the request to begin the one year
maintenance period and inform the developer of the reasons and items to address
in order to trigger the maintenance period or shall pass a resolution to
acknowledge substantial completion, identify the amount of the developer's
guarantee and trigger the one year maintenance period.
      5.   The one year maintenance period shall begin on the date following
the passage of a resolution by the village board's acknowledging substantial
completion.
   B.   One Year Maintenance Obligations: During the one year maintenance
period, the developer shall:
      1.   Finish all work that must be done to complete the public
improvements, including all punch list items;
      2.   Cure all defects in the workmanship or operation of the
improvements;
      3.   Repair or replace defective and damaged materials;
      4.   Do crack filling along the entire length of any lateral cracks on
the streets;
      5.   Provide for all curb removal to be joint to joint full depth saw cut
(no patching of any curb or sidewalk will be accepted);
      6.   Complete the planting of all parkway trees and installation of all
sidewalks, leaving no gaps in the required parkway tree planting and sidewalk
construction; and
      7.   Maintain the public improvements in good condition, including
snowplowing and ice removal.
   C.   Acceptance Of Public Improvements:
      1.   After the one year maintenance period has passed, the developer may
make a written request to the village for acceptance of the improvements, which
shall be tendered with a bill of sale in the form identified in section
11-19-5, "Appendix E; Bill Of Sale", of this title.
      2.   The village engineer shall review the request for acceptance of the
public improvements; determine whether all of the maintenance requirements for
acceptance have been satisfied; and certify that determination to the village
board.
      3.   The village board shall pass a resolution accepting the bill of sale
and terminating the letter of credit or other guaranty on the following
conditions:
         a.   Confirmation from the village engineer that all maintenance
requirements have been met and comprehensive record drawings have been
prepared, sealed by a registered professional engineer and delivered to the
village as required in section
11-4-8 of this title;
         b.   An opinion by the village attorney that satisfactory and proper
conveyance or dedication has been made by the developer to the village;
         c.   Receipt of inspection reports indicating compliance with the
approved final engineering plans and specifications; and
         d.   Compliance with all other requirements and conditions to
acceptance of public improvements.
   D.   Phases Of Development: Public improvements may be considered for
substantial completion and for acceptance in phases of subdivision development,
and all of the underground improvements may be considered separately for
substantial completion and acceptance from the other public improvements, but
no category of public improvement shall be considered for substantial
completion or acceptance in part; the category of improvements shall be
complete throughout the subdivision or phase as indicated on the final
engineering plans. Street construction work consisting of excavation, grading,
parkway restoration, curbs and gutters, pavement subgrade, and pavement base
and surface courses shall be considered a single improvement. If disputes arise
between the village and the developer as to the acceptability of streets,
curbs, and/or sidewalks, tests of these improvements shall be made by an
independent testing firm retained and paid for by the developer with results
furnished to the village.
   E.   Release Of Security: Acceptance of a public improvement shall
constitute release of the applicable portion of the posted security deposit
guaranteeing satisfactory completion and approval of said improvement.
   F.   Acceptance In Phases And Categories: Public improvements may be
substantially completed and/or accepted in phases and in categories, as
outlined below, unless the terms for completion and/or acceptance are modified
by an annexation agreement or by ordinance approved by a majority of the
village board:
      1.   All underground improvements; and
      2.   All other public improvements. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-5-7: CONNECTIONS:
No permanent connection shall be made with the sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or
water distribution system until such connection has been approved and all
permit fees for the connection have been paid; and, then, such connection shall
in all respects conform to the provisions of standards for sewer and water main
construction, state of Illinois, latest edition. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-5-8: SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   An owner or developer of property must apply to the village for a site
development permit whenever plans for the improvement of any property in the
village:
      1.   Involve disturbance of the public right of way;
      2.   Involve disturbance of more than five thousand (5,000) square feet
of ground;
      3.   Will alter the course of the water flow and/or drainage of water
onto or off of the property; or
      4.   Will decrease the volume of water flow and/or drainage onto the
property or increase the water flow and/or drainage off of the property.
   B.   The obligation to apply for a site development permit pursuant to this
section applies regardless of whether the property is otherwise subject to all
the provisions of this title.
   C.   An application for site development permit must include a site plan
that includes detail on existing and proposed topographical elevations, the
location of existing and proposed utilities and paved improvements, and any
other detail and documentation that is reasonably necessary to determine
compliance with the applicable provisions of this code.
   D.   Site development plans are subject to the approval of the village
engineer and community development director in connection with and pursuant to
the same process as the submittal of a building permit and shall be processed
with the building permit, if a building permit is required for the particular
improvement. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-5-9: LOT GRADING, STORMWATER AND EROSION CONTROL COMPLIANCE:
Subject to and in compliance with the applicable requirements of the Illinois
environmental protection agency, DuPage County, and other agencies having
jurisdiction, within twelve (12) months from substantial completion of the mass
grading of a subdivision or phase, all individual lots within the subdivision
or phase shall be graded according to the following minimum standards:
   A.   Each lot shall drain cleanly into the stormwater control system; and
   B.   Each lot shall be fully stabilized with appropriate vegetation within
fourteen (14) days of being mass graded. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC LANDS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Required Land Dedication
11-6-2: Computation Of Land Donation
11-6-3: School Donations
11-6-4: Park Site And Village Land Donation
11-6-5: Reservation Of Additional Land
11-6-6: Combining With Adjoining Developments
11-6-7: Combined School-Park Sites
11-6-8: Transmittal And Conveyance Procedures
11-6-9: Criteria For Requiring Cash Contributions In Lieu Of Land Donations
11-6-10: Other Service Donations
11-6-11: Updating Of Required Contributions And Fair Market Value
11-6-1: REQUIRED LAND DEDICATION:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided for in an annexation agreement with the
village as a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision, or a final
plat of a planned unit development, or in the case of property being developed
for condominium ownership or similar development which requires no final plat,
as a condition of approval of the preliminary plan or concept plan or other
plan whose approval by the village authorizes the development in question, each
subdivider or developer shall be required to dedicate land and/or make cash
contributions in lieu of land for the acquisition of park, school and village
sites and cash donations for school construction and fire protection by each
park district, school district, and fire protection district whose jurisdiction
includes any portion of the development being approved, and cash donations for
village services, Winfield library services and recreation to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the subdivision or planned unit
development or other development being approved as hereinafter set forth.
   B.   In the event that such an annexation agreement expires prior to such
donations having been made, the provisions of this section shall apply.
   C.   In the event that land which is subject to subdivision approval by the
village is not within the corporate limits of the village and not the subject
of any annexation agreement at the time of approval of a final plan of
subdivision for the land, the provisions of this section shall not apply to
said land with respect to contributions for village services or Winfield
library services or in any other instance where the land is not within the
jurisdiction of the governmental entity to which the contribution or donation
is to be made. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-6-2: COMPUTATION OF LAND DONATION:
For purposes of computing the amount of village land donations or cash
contributions in lieu of land for school sites and park sites; and cash
donations for school sites and construction, fire protection, village services,
books and library services and recreation, that will be required of each
subdivision or planned unit development (PUD) to enable the village to provide
facilities and services to meet the needs of such subdivision or PUD, its
projected population density shall be computed in accordance with the following
table which is generally indicative of current and short range projected trends
in family size by age groups. This table shall be used for all population
estimates unless a subdivider or developer files a written objection opposing
the village data together with his own demographic study showing the estimated
population to be generated by his subdivision or PUD. In that event, the final
determination of the density formula to be used in such calculations shall be
made by the village on the basis of the foregoing village data, data submitted
by the subdivider or developer, and from other sources which may be submitted
to the village by the park district, school districts, fire protection
district, library or others. It is recognized that population density, age
distribution and local conditions change over the years and that said table is
subject to periodic review and amendment if necessary.
   TABLE OF ESTIMATED POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
             Children Per Unit
                     Elementary Junior    Total     High
Type Of    Preschool Grades K-  High      Grades K- School    Adults  Total Per
Unit       0-4 Years 5 5-10     Grades 6- 8 5-13    Grades 9- (18-Up) Unit
                     Years      8 11-13   Years     12 14-17
                                Years               Years
Detached Single-Family                                              
                                                                 
2 Bedroom  0.125     0.120      0.026     0.146     0.018     1.700   1.989
3 Bedroom  0.308     0.381      0.174     0.555     0.146     1.978   2.987
4 Bedroom  0.472     0.513      0.314     0.827     0.313     2.195   3.807
5 Bedroom  0.402     0.620      0.420     1.040     0.327     2.650   4.419
Attached Single-Family                                              
1 Bedroom  ----      ----       ----      ----      ----      1.050   1.050
2 Bedroom  0.051     0.075      0.011     0.086     0.021     1.741   1.899
3 Bedroom  0.217     0.212      0.022     0.234     0.051     1.775   2.277
4 Bedroom  0.333     0.316      0.166     0.482     0.180     2.333   3.328
Apartments                                                          
Efficiency ----      ----       ----      ----      ----      1.000   1.000
1 Bedroom  ----      ----       ----      ----      ----      1.190   1.190
2 Bedroom  0.038     0.065      0.021     0.086     0.035     1.500   1.659
3 Bedroom  0.208     0.157      0.037     0.194     0.082     2.330   2.814
 
Note: There are only 3 significant categories provided in this chart. Because
of the similarity of yields of all types of attached single family, only one
category is provided. The same is true with apartments, thus only one category.
Because of this short history of some newer types of single units, both
detached and attached individual evaluations may be necessary.
Copyright 1983
Associated Municipal Consultants
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-6-3: SCHOOL DONATIONS:
   A.   School Site Donation: School sites, if required by this section, shall
be donated and conveyed to the village, in accordance with the following
criteria:
      1.   The ultimate number of students that will be generated by the
proposed subdivision or PUD shall be determined in accordance with the current
(at the time of plan review) edition of the table set forth in section
11-6-2 of this chapter, adjusted as set forth in section
11-6-11 of this chapter.
      2.   The amount of land required to be dedicated shall be determined by:
         a.   Dividing the estimated number of children in each of the school
age brackets hereinafter set forth that will be generated by the proposed
subdivision or PUD, by
         b.   The maximum recommended number of students that can be served in
the type of school assigned to such age bracket, hereinafter set forth, and
multiplying the quotient times,
         c.   The minimum number of acres recommended for a school site
hereinafter set forth. The product thereof shall be the acres of land deemed
needed to obtain a sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated
increased children in each such school classification.
      3.   School classifications and size of school sites shall be determined
in accordance with the following criteria:
 
School Classification By  Maximum Number Of Students Minimum Number Of Acres Of
Grades                    For Each Such School       Land For Each School Site
                          Classification             Of Such Classification
Elementary schools Grades 600 students               6 1/2
kindergarten through 5th
Middle schools Grades 6th 900 students               81/2
through 8th
High schools Grades 9th   2,300 students             221/2
through 12th
 
         a.   The comprehensive plan of the village shall be used as a
guideline in locating sites.
         b.   Prior to conveyance, all sites shall be prepared in accordance
with this title and the village water retention/detention requirements. All
sites shall be conveyed in a condition ready for full service of electrical,
water, sewer and streets (including enclosed drainage and curb and gutter) as
applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable provision made therefor.
The sidewalks and trees normally included within the definition of improved
sites may be deferred due to the delay time between conveyance of any such
school sites and construction of school facilities thereon. School land
conveyed to the village shall be held by it for transfer to the affected school
district or other entity. Any school land conveyed to the village or thereafter
transferred to a school district or other entity pursuant to this title which
is not used for school purposes within twenty (20) years after it is conveyed
to the village shall be reconveyed to the developer.
   B.   Additional School Donation:
      1.   In addition to the land or cash in lieu of land donation referred to
in subsection A of this section and section
11-6-9 of this chapter, each subdivider or developer shall be required to make
a cash contribution to aid in the provision of necessary funds for the
construction, expansion or rehabilitation of a school for the use of the
children who will be generated by the proposed subdivision or PUD. The amount
of the cash donation shall be determined by multiplying the estimated number of
children in the kindergarten through twelfth (K - 12) school age bracket that
will be generated by the proposed subdivision or PUD times one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per child. The contribution required for school construction shall
be regularly updated, pursuant to section
11-6-11 of this chapter. Funds contributed by a developer pursuant to this
section shall be deposited with the village treasurer to be held in a special
fund which shall not be used for any purpose other than for payment of the cost
of school construction, expansion or rehabilitation. Any interest which accrues
shall also be used for the purposes set forth in this section. Any cash donated
to the village for school construction or expansion purposes pursuant to this
chapter and any interest earned by that cash which has not been expended for
those purposes within twenty (20) years of approval of the final plat shall be
refunded to the developer. Developer is required to advise the village in
writing of any changes in ownership that would cause these funds to be returned
to a different person than the person or persons who made the payment, and to
advise the village in writing of the name and address of the person entitled to
receive this refund.
      2.   The funds and any accrued interests will be apportioned among the
school districts affected by a particular development based on the number of
students estimated to be generated as set forth in the table in section
11-6-2 of this chapter.
      3.   This cash contribution is a requirement of this title. The per
dwelling unit share of the cash contributions required in this subsection shall
be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit for each dwelling unit.
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-6-4: PARK SITE AND VILLAGE LAND DONATION:
Park sites and village land shall be donated and conveyed to the park district
or village in accordance with the following criteria:
   A.   Population Served: The ultimate number of residents that will be
generated by the proposed subdivision or PUD shall be determined in accordance
with the table set forth in section
11-6-2 of this chapter. The amount of land required to be dedicated for park
sites or village land in each subdivision or PUD shall be determined by
dividing the estimated population of such subdivision or PUD by one thousand
(1,000) and multiplying the quotient times five and five-tenths (5.5) acres of
park or village public land. This calculation will result in the amount of park
or village public land required for each one thousand (1,000) residents of the
subdivision or PUD.
   B.   Location Of Park Sites And Village Land:
      1.   Except for combined school-park sites, as defined in section
11-6-7 of this chapter, the comprehensive plan adopted by the village 1  and
the Winfield park district master plan shall be used as a guideline in locating
sites. These plans are on file in the village. If the village or the park
district has not planned a park within the subdivision or PUD, or the
neighborhood in which the subdivision or PUD is located, the park sites shall
be so located as to be readily accessible to the people within such
neighborhood. Play and athletic fields and large park sites must be
conveniently accessible to the community at large. Village sites may be located
anywhere within the village limits.
      2.   Proper ingress, egress and curb cuts shall be provided. Sites
intended by the park district for active recreational use, such as athletic
field or playgrounds, shall not contain nor be adjacent to a water retention
area.
   C.   Environmental Quality:
      1.   Land to be dedicated for park sites or village land shall be
approved by the village according to its environmental quality as well as its
suitability for active and passive recreational activities. The land is to be
dry and usable at all times and not subject to flooding or used as detention.
No bogs or swamps shall be acceptable as required park sites or village land.
Lakes and native prairie wetlands shall not normally be acceptable, unless
approved by the village where, in the opinion of the village board, the area
offers an exceptional amenity or the chance to protect a significant natural
resource. No site that has been part of an unlicensed landfill or a toxic waste
dump shall be acceptable as required park or village acreage.
      2.   Every effort shall be made to conserve for public use and enjoyment
those areas of significant natural and environmental value. Except in those
specific areas designated by the village for development as play fields or
other active areas, all trees, other plant materials, streams and other natural
features shall be retained on land to be dedicated for park site use, unless
specifically cited by the village for removal by the developer.
   D.   Shape: Dedicated park sites or village land shall be regularly
configured to permit efficient park programming, security and maintenance.
Sites shall be rectangular, or nearly rectangular, in shape with no interior
angle of the boundary line less than sixty degrees (60°), unless specifically
approved by the village. Narrow strips of land, small parcels that intrude into
adjacent orderly development, or leftover parcels that are oddly shaped or
located shall be avoided.
   E.   Improvements: Prior to conveyance, all sites shall be prepared in
accordance with this title and any other applicable ordinance, and except as
varied by the specific terms of this chapter, areas must be final graded and
seeded to meet park district specifications as to seed mixture.
   F.   Provisions For Acquired Public Utilities: Prior to the time specified
for conveyance in subsection 11-6-8B of this chapter, any sites requiring
public utility service shall be made ready for such service as follows:
      1.   Within ninety (90) days following approval of the final plat of
subdivision or, if the subdivision is to be developed in phases, within ninety
(90) days following the approval of the final plat for the phase adjacent to
the park site or village land, the park district shall notify the village if
the proposed use of any park site or village land in that subdivision will
require electric, water, sanitary sewer or other public utility service. If
notice is provided that any such service is required, then the village shall
notify the developer, and the developer shall, prior to the time hereinafter
specified for conveyance, make the site ready for that utility service. In the
case of water, sewer and electric service, respectively, "ready for service"
means the following shall be provided by developer at his expense:
         a.   Water Service: Extend a water service pipe to a location within
the park site or village facility terminating with a shutoff valve (buffalo
box) constructed by the developer. The size of the water service pipe shall be
as required by applicable building code 2  for the type of service intended by
the park district or village.
         b.   Sanitary Sewer Service: Extend a sanitary sewer line to a
location within the park site or village facility terminating at a manhole
constructed by developer. The size of the sanitary sewer service line shall be
as required by applicable building code 3  for the type of service intended by
the park district or village.
         c.   Electrical Service: Obtain, install and convey to the village a
transformer adequate to provide electric service adequate for the type of use
intended by the park district or village.
      2.   In addition, all park sites or village facilities shall, prior to
the time specified for conveyance, be improved by providing safe and adequate
access by both pedestrians and emergency vehicles, adequate access shall be
determined by the type and intensity of use anticipated by the park district or
village and shall be consistent with generally accepted design standards for
park site or village facility use. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-2-6 of this code.
2 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
3 2. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
11-6-5: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
Where the comprehensive plan of the village calls for a larger amount of park
sites and recreational land, village land, or school sites in a particular
proposed subdivision or planned unit development than the developer is required
to dedicate, the land needed in excess of the developer's contribution shall be
determined by the village board, and be reserved for subsequent purchase by the
village or other public body designated by the village; provided, that such
acquisition is made within two (2) years from the date of approval of the final
plat, or suit is filed to acquire the site under powers of eminent domain.
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-6-6: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS:
Where the subdivision or planned unit development is less than forty (40)
acres, public open space or a school site which is to be dedicated should,
where possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining developments in
order to produce usable recreation areas or school sites without hardship on a
particular developer. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-6-7: COMBINED SCHOOL-PARK SITES:
The developer and the village may agree that the developer shall dedicate and
convey land (or contribute cash in lieu of land pursuant to section
11-6-9 of this chapter) for combined school- park sites in lieu of land
donations otherwise required under subsection 11-6-3A and section
11-6-4 of this chapter in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   The amount and quality of land required to be dedicated for park
purposes shall first be determined pursuant to section
11-6-4 of this chapter.
   B.   The amount of land required to be dedicated for school purposes shall
be determined by dividing:
      1.   The estimated number of children in each of the school age brackets
hereinafter set forth that will be generated by the proposed subdivision or
PUD, by
      2.   The maximum recommended number of students that can be served in the
type of school assigned to such an age bracket, set forth in the following
table, and multiplying the quotient times,
      3.   The minimum number of acres recommended for a school site, within a
combined school-park site, for each school classification hereinafter set
forth:
 
                                                     Minimum Number Of Acres Of
School Classification By  Maximum Number Of Students Land For Each School Site
Grades                    For Each Such School       Within A Combined School-
                          Classification             Park Site Of Such
                                                     Classification
Elementary schools Grades 600 students               11
kindergarten through 5th
Middle schools Grades 6th 900 students               29
through 8th
High schools Grades 9th   2,300 students             53
through 12th
 
   C.   A combined elementary school-park site shall be at least thirteen (13)
acres in area, of which six and one-half (61/2) acres shall be conveyed to the
park district and the remaining six and one-half (61/2) acres shall be held by
the village for transfer to the affected school district or other entity.
   D.   A combined middle school-park site shall be at least seventeen (17)
acres in area, of which eight and one-half (81/2) acres shall be conveyed to
the park district and the remaining eight and one-half (81/2) acres shall be
held by the village for transfer to the affected school district or other
entity.
   E.   A combined high school-park site shall be at least forty five (45)
acres in area, of which twenty two and one-half (221/2) acres shall be conveyed
to the park district and the remaining twenty two and one-half (221/2) acres
shall be held by the village for transfer to the affected school district or
other entity.
   F.   The standards set forth in subsections 11-6-3A and 11-6-8C and sections
11-6-4,
11-6-5 and
11-6-6 of this chapter as to location, improvements and topography shall be
applicable to combined school-park sites. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-6-8: TRANSMITTAL AND CONVEYANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Transmittal Of Proposed Plat: Copies of each proposed subdivision plat
or PUD plan shall be transmitted to the park district and the affected school
district for their written recommendations at the same time that they are
transmitted to the plan commission, but nothing herein contained shall be
construed as requiring receipt of a recommendation prior to action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   B.   Conveyance:
      1.   All land donations required pursuant to this section shall be
conveyed no later than the earlier of the following to occur:
         a.   Within one hundred eighty (180) days after a written demand by
the village;
         b.   The fourth anniversary of the approval of the plat of subdivision
or PUD by the village.
      2.   Each deed or other instrument conveying land to the village or the
park district shall be accompanied by:
         a.   A written commitment issued by a title insurer licensed to do
business in Illinois to ensure that grantee will acquire good merchantable
title to such real estate in an amount equal to its value computed pursuant to
section
11-6-9 of this chapter subject only to then current general real estate taxes
as of the date of transfer; covenants, conditions and restrictions which do not
prohibit the use of the subject real estate for school or park use; utility
easements located within twenty feet (20') of the boundary lines of the subject
real estate; drainage ditches, feeders, laterals and underground pipe or other
conduit;
         b.   A current boundary line survey, certified to the grantee by a
licensed Illinois land surveyor to be in compliance with the Illinois land
survey standards; and
         c.   Except in instances where the real estate to be conveyed is a lot
in a recorded subdivision, an assessment plat and tax division petition in form
acceptable to the appropriate county authorities so that the land to be
conveyed can be assigned its own permanent real estate index number for
exemption purposes.
   C.   Topography And Grading: The slope, topography and geology of the
dedicated site, as well as its surroundings, must be suitable for its intended
purposes. Grading on sites dedicated for park, village land, school, and
recreational uses shall not differ greatly from surrounding land. (Ord. 2015-
02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-6-9: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING CASH CONTRIBUTIONS IN LIEU OF LAND DONATIONS:
   A.   Whenever, in the determination of the village with the advice of the
park district, any subdivision or PUD is so small that the park or village
sites required under the provisions of sections
11-6-4 and
11-6-7 of this chapter will not be large enough for practical development and
maintenance as park or village sites, or when the available land cannot meet
the standards set forth in section
11-6-4 of this chapter, or is otherwise inappropriate for park, village, or
recreational purposes, the village shall require the subdivider or developer to
pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication required. The village
shall determine if the development must provide land, cash in lieu of land, or
any such combination as provided in this section.
   B.   The cash contribution to be paid in lieu of land donations for school
sites shall be held in trust by the village solely for use in the acquisition
of a school site to serve the immediate or future needs of children from that
subdivision or PUD, or for reimbursement to the school district for prior
acquisition of a school site(s) for which bonds or other financing obligations
are outstanding which will serve immediate or future needs of children from
that subdivision or PUD, or for the improvement of any existing school site
which predominantly serve such needs, but not for the construction, repair or
rehabilitation of any school building(s) or addition(s) thereto.
All cash donations shall be apportioned among the affected school districts on
a pro rata basis determined by the estimated population to be generated in the
subdivision or PUD as set forth in the table in subsection 11-6-3A of this
chapter.
   C.   The cash contribution to be paid in lieu of land donations for park and
recreational purposes shall be held in trust by the village solely for the
acquisition of park and recreational land which will be available to serve the
immediate future needs of the residents of that subdivision or PUD or for the
improvement of existing park and recreational lands which predominantly serve
such needs.
   D.   If any portion of a cash contribution in lieu of:
      1.   Park or recreational land donations, or
      2.   School site donations, made pursuant to this section,
is not expended for the purposes above set forth within twenty (20) years from
the date of its receipt, it shall be refunded to the subdivider or developer or
his successor(s) who made such contribution.
   E.   The amount of cash contributions in lieu of land shall be based on the
"fair market value" of land in the proposed subdivision or PUD improved as
specified in sections
11-6-2,
11-6-4 and
11-6-7 of this chapter that otherwise would have been donated for park,
recreational and school sites. The corporate authorities have determined that
the present "fair market value" of such unimproved land in and surrounding
Winfield is two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) per acre.
"Unimproved land" is defined for the purpose of this title as land readily
accessible for development, capable of being subdivided and developed but is
currently without public improvements. Such figure shall be regularly updated
pursuant to section
11-6-11 of this chapter, and shall be used in making any calculation herein
unless the subdivider or developer files a written objection thereto. In the
event of any such written objection, the developer shall submit an appraisal
showing the "fair market value" of such unimproved land in the area of his
development or other evidence thereof and final determination of said "fair
market value" per acre of such unimproved land shall be made by the corporate
authorities based upon such information submitted by the subdivider or
developer and from other sources which may be submitted to the corporate
authorities by the park district, school district or others.
   F.   There will be situations in subdivisions or planned unit developments
when, in the determination of the village, a combination of land donation and
cash contribution in lieu of land is appropriate. These occasions will arise
when:
      1.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park, village land or school site. That portion of the land
within the subdivision or PUD falling within the park, village or school site
shall be conveyed as aforesaid, and cash shall be donated by the developer, and
cash shall be donated in an amount equal to the difference between the fair
market value of the land donated and the fair market value of the land required
to be donated under subsection 11-6-3A and sections
11-6-4 and
11-6-7 of this chapter.
      2.   A major part of a local park, village or recreation site or school
site has already been acquired and only a small amount of land is needed from
the proposed subdivision or PUD to complete the site. The remaining amount of
land shall be donated by the developer, and cash shall be donated in an amount
equal to the difference between the fair market value of the land donated and
the fair market value of the land required to be donated under subsection 11-6-
3A and sections
11-6-4 and
11-6-7 of this chapter.
      3.   Because of the large number of school districts serving Winfield,
there may be instances where a combination of land donation and cash
contributions in lieu of land will be appropriate, and will be decided on a
case by case basis in accordance with the criteria set forth in this section.
For example, a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as one type of
school site, e.g., elementary, but that there is no site which is suitable for
a high school site in accordance with the criteria set forth in subsection 11-
6-3A and section
11-6-7 of this chapter. In that event, a land donation will be made to the
elementary school district and a cash donation will be made to the high school
district.
   G.   A cash contribution in lieu of land is a requirement of this title.
However, in order to assist developers in meeting this financial
responsibility, the cash contributions required in this section shall be
prorated among the total number of dwelling units in the subdivision or planned
development, and paid upon application for a building permit for each dwelling
unit. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-6-10: OTHER SERVICE DONATIONS:
   A.   Village Services Donation: In order to provide the village with funds
to defray the increased cost of providing village services to developers during
the construction process and to residents of new subdivisions before tax
revenues are generated by such new subdivisions or PUDs in the process of
construction, a cash contribution in the amount of three hundred ninety seven
dollars ($397.00) per person or fraction thereof shall be made to the village
on the basis of the estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit determined
pursuant to the table set forth in section
11-6-2 of this chapter. This cash contribution is a requirement of this title
and the cash contributions required in this subsection shall be paid upon the
application for a building permit for each dwelling unit.
   B.   School Expansion Donation:
      1.   In the event that an affected school district decides by resolution
duly passed at any time within five (5) years after approval of a plat of
subdivision or PUD that a land donation or cash in lieu of a land donation will
not be required by that particular district within the next five (5) years to
accommodate the number of students projected to be generated by a proposed
subdivision or planned unit development, but that said projected number of
students shall require the hiring of additional teachers and expansion and
creation of new programs, in order to provide the affected school district with
funds to provide such services before tax revenues are generated by such new
subdivision or planned unit development, a cash contribution in the amount of
nine hundred five dollars ($905.00) per student shall be made to the village on
the basis of the estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit determined
pursuant to the table set forth in section
11-6-2 of this chapter, and all such funds shall be paid over by the village to
the affected school district.
      2.   All such donations shall be apportioned among the affected school
districts on a pro rata basis determined by the estimated population in the
subdivision or PUD as set forth in the table in section
11-6-2 of this chapter.
      3.   If the affected school district elects to take advantage of the
provisions as outlined in this subsection, the donated land or cash in lieu of
land shall be returned to the developer.
      4.   The per dwelling unit share (based upon the number of dwelling units
for which building permits have not yet been issued) of the cash contribution
is a requirement of this title and the cash contributions required in this
subsection shall be paid prior to the issuance of each building permit applied
for subsequent to the date the school district delivers to the village a
certified copy of the resolution referred to in this subsection.
   C.   Fire Protection Donation: In order to help defray the cost of providing
fire protection to the developer and residents of new subdivisions or PUDs
during the construction process, and before tax revenues are generated by such
subdivisions and PUDs in the process of construction, a cash contribution in
the amount of four hundred forty one dollars ($441.00) per unit shall be made
to the village and then paid over to the Winfield fire protection district
board of trustees by the village. Developer shall pay fifty percent (50%) of
the total amount owed upon final plat approval and the balance upon application
for the first building permit.
   D.   Library Services Donation:
      1.   In order to help defray the cost of providing library services for
residents of new subdivisions or PUDs during the construction process and
before tax revenues are generated by subdivisions and PUDs in the process of
construction, a cash contribution in the amount of two hundred twenty two
dollars ($222.00) per person or fraction thereof shall be made to the village
on the basis of the estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit determined
pursuant to the table set forth in section
11-6-2 of this chapter, and all such funds shall be paid over by the village to
the Winfield board of library trustees.
      2.   This cash contribution is a requirement of this title, and the per
dwelling unit share of the cash contributions required in this subsection shall
be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit for each dwelling unit.
   E.   Reimbursement Of Professional Village Services: In order to defray the
cost of providing village professional services for new development, an escrow
account shall be funded by all new development applicants in a sum equal to one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost of providing village staff
services associated with the review and approval of such new development.
Such escrow account shall be billed for all review services rendered on a
monthly basis until said escrow account is released following final approval or
withdrawal by the applicant. Said escrow account shall be replenished as
necessary by the applicant and the remainder of the escrow account shall be
returned to the applicant upon final approval or withdrawal. (Ord. 2015-02-05,
2-5-2015)
11-6-11: UPDATING OF REQUIRED CONTRIBUTIONS AND FAIR MARKET VALUE:
It is recognized that population density, age distribution, land values, the
cost of providing park, school and municipal services, construction costs and
other local conditions change over the years. Therefore, the specific formula
for the dedication of land, or the payment of fees in lieu thereof, the
required contribution for school construction, police, fire, library and
administrative services, and the "fair market value" of land in and around the
village shall be reviewed at least every five (5) years and amended if
necessary. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 7
CONCEPT PLAN
SECTION:
11-7-1: Procedure For Concept Plan
11-7-2: Concept Plan And Supporting Information
11-7-1: PROCEDURE FOR CONCEPT PLAN:
   A.   Paperwork for all developments will be submitted to the village
administrator who will distribute it to technical review committee and village
planning consultant.
   B.   The developer will appear before the technical review committee for an
informal review of their concept. The developer shall be responsible for all
fees incurred.
   C.   Developer may begin formal staff review after escrow fee has been
established per current village ordinance. A developer presentation/workshop
meeting with staff will then be scheduled, followed by staff review memos to
the plan commission prior to formal plan commission hearing.
   D.   Formal presentation to plan commission will be made only after staff
recommendations have been incorporated into developer's plans. Paperwork,
including complete drawings, must be submitted to the village administrator for
distribution to plan commission at least ten (10) working days prior to the
date of their next scheduled meeting.
   E.   After plan commission review is complete, recommendations will be made
to village board. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-7-2: CONCEPT PLAN AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION:
The intent of the concept plan stage is to provide information to help a
prospective applicant appraise the feasibility of a subdivision concept
according to development plans and policies, existing and projected development
conditions and other development activities. The concept plan stage encourages
the discussion of basic problems and questions related to the development
proposal prior to the expenditure of funds for more detailed plans. The concept
plan stage also includes citizen participation opportunities in order to assist
the applicant and the village in defining the conditions under which permanent
changes in land use may occur with minimum intrusion on the natural and
economic resources of the village.
   A.   Concept Plan Contents: Before concept engineering review with the
technical committee, the developer shall submit to the village administrator,
at least one week prior to said meeting, sixteen (16) copies of a concept plan
in simple form, drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100'), showing the following information:
      1.   Existing lots, streets, rights of way, easements, and covenants;
      2.   Distinctive natural features such as watercourses, wetland areas,
general topography, soil types, and wooded (tree) areas;
      3.   Existing zoning on and surrounding the site;
      4.   Proposed street and lot layout;
      5.   Other proposed rights of way and/or easements;
      6.   Proposed parks and other open space;
      7.   Any requested zoning changes;
      8.   Site data table itemizing gross and net densities, and impervious
coverages.
   B.   Supporting Information: The developer shall describe or outline how the
proposed property will be served by water and sewer and other public utilities
and shall describe how stormwater runoff control will be provided for. In
addition, the developer may submit any additional information that will help
determine the feasibility of the proposed development, including preliminary
stormwater calculation, and contouring to verify volume requirement.
   C.   Village Not Bound By Concept Review: Concept review does not encumber
or bind the village to any specific design commitment. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-
2015)
CHAPTER 8
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION AND ENGINEERING
SECTION:
11-8-1: Procedure, Preliminary Subdivision
11-8-2: Preliminary Subdivision
11-8-3: Required Information
11-8-4: Submission
11-8-5: Planning Commission Action
11-8-6: Village Board Of Trustees Action
11-8-1: PROCEDURE, PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION:
The steps and proceedings hereinafter set forth are adopted as the procedure to
be followed for the approval of a preliminary plat and preliminary plan for the
subdivision of lands. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-8-2: PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION:
   A.   When any owner of land lying within the corporate limits of the village
of Winfield or within the area of jurisdiction of the Winfield planning
commission desires to subdivide such lands, the owner shall submit to the
village administrator: 1) preliminary plat drawn to a scale of not more than
one hundred feet (100') to the inch with supporting sheets which shall
constitute a part thereof; and 2) a preliminary engineering plan drawn at a
scale of not more than one hundred feet (100') to the inch showing all proposed
improvements. Amount of copies shall be set from time to time by village
administrator. The preliminary plat shall show all land owned, optioned, or
proposed to be subdivided by the developer. The number of copies to be provided
shall be adjusted from time to time by the village administrator. Such plat and
plan shall show and give the information listed in section
11-8-3 of this chapter and shall include all required certificates and
easements in a minimum of 10-point font size. A copy of the preliminary plat
and plan shall also be submitted in PDF form. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-8-3: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
   A.   Preliminary subdivision:
      1.   The length and bearing of external boundaries, including such curve
data as radius, chord length and bearing of the proposed subdivision, the total
acreage contained therein, along with a legal description of the property to be
subdivided.
      2.   The name of the proposed subdivision; the name, address and phone
number of the developer; and the name of the surveyor who prepared the plat.
      3.   The location of existing corporate boundaries at or contiguous to
the subdivision.
      4.   The subdivision of lands within and immediately adjoining for a
distance of one hundred fifty feet (150') from the boundary of the proposed
subdivision, and the names, location and dimensions of all existing public
streets, railways, watercourses or other such public or private easements and
rights of way within the adjoining lands and proposed subdivision.
      5.   The then zoning district classification under the village of
Winfield or the DuPage County zoning ordinance for adjoining lands and the land
to be subdivided.
      6.   The names, location, dimensions, widths, bearings, and curve data
within the proposed subdivision of all proposed streets, easements, parks,
playgrounds, and other open spaces proposed to be dedicated to the public use.
      7.   The blocks and/or lots into which the project is proposed to be
subdivided, all dimensions thereof including, but not limited to: width of each
lot at the front line, length and location of building setback line, length of
side lot lines, all lots consecutively numbered within consecutively numbered
blocks; the purpose of each lot not dedicated to residential use; area of lots
in square feet.
      8.   All preliminary plats shall be at a scale not more than one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall be complete with north arrow,
date of preparation, and any other information or data that the village may
require for full and complete consideration of the proposed preliminary plat
for the subdivision.
      9.   Supporting documents:
         a.   A letter of intent stating the desires of the owner of the
property or the developer pertaining to annexation to the village if said
property is not presently within the corporate boundary.
         b.   Summary of all restrictions intended to be imposed by the final
plat or by deeds of conveyance as to the use of all property within the
subdivision, including area of buildings for residential use, if any.
         c.   Developer shall provide key plan locating subject property among
all other adjacent parcels within one thousand feet (1,000') of project limits,
with adjacent parcels noted by address or common ownership name.
   B.   Preliminary engineering plan:
      1.   The length and bearing of external boundaries, including such curve
data as radius, chord length and bearing of the proposed subdivision, and the
total acreage contained therein.
      2.   The name of the proposed subdivision; the name, address and phone
number of the subdivider, developer, and the name of the engineer who prepared
the plan.
      3.   The character of lands within and immediately adjoining for a
distance of one hundred fifty feet (150') from the proposed subdivision
boundaries, showing the subdivision thereof, if subdivided, and the location
and dimensions of existing public streets, sanitary and storm sewers, culverts
and drain tile, water supply mains, gas and/or petroleum pipelines, underground
electrical and telephone lines, bridges, watercourses and floodplain limits,
railways, permanent historical features, park and school sites, public utility
easements or other than dedicated properties, if any, called out as "existing"
on the plan and shown in such a manner as to be differentiated from proposed
improvements.
      4.   Existing ground contours at vertical intervals of not more than one
foot (1') intervals based on the United States geological survey datum.
Contours of two foot (2') intervals shall be allowed only when and if unusual
topographic features limit plan clarity; environmental or distinguishing
natural features, wetlands (as delineated by a certified wetlands biologist),
trees of four inches (4") or more in diameter measured two feet (2') above the
ground with common tree names; existing buildings and present use, bodies of
water with then elevation, if any, shown in such a manner as to be
differentiated from proposed easements.
      5.   The existing zoning district classification under the village of
Winfield or adjacent governmental authority's zoning ordinance for adjoining
lands and the land to be subdivided.
      6.   The names, locations, widths and other general dimensions of
proposed streets, easements, parks, playgrounds, school sites, and other open
spaces proposed to be dedicated to the public use.
      7.   The blocks and lots into which the project is proposed to be
subdivided, with dimensions, the numbering of all lots, the purpose and area in
acreage of all lots not dedicated for residential use.
      8.   A general description of the type, kind, character, extent and
location of all proposed improvements as proposed to be constructed or
installed along with sufficient detail as may be required to convey the general
basis of design for sewer, water and other improvements, both on site or off
site, for the development of the subdivision according to this title.
      9.   A general description of the type, character, extent and location of
all stormwater runoff control facilities, including critical spot elevations.
      10.   Typical street cross sections showing curbs, pavement width,
sidewalks, width of right of way, street name and classification; general
description of proposed street grades and drainage facilities.
      11.   All preliminary plans shall be at a scale of one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall be complete with north arrow, legend, and
any other information or data that the village engineer or planning commission
may require for full and complete consideration of the proposed preliminary
plan for the subdivision.
      12.   A location map at a scale of not less than one inch equals two
thousand feet (1" = 2,000') showing the relationship of the subdivision to its
surroundings within one-half (1/2) mile including section lines, primary and
collector roads.
      13.   Proposed phasing of the development of the proposed subdivision, if
any, and the corresponding phasing of any and all improvements thereof.
      14.   Supporting documents:
         a.   A watershed map such as the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) and
flood insurance study published by the federal emergency management agency, the
"Hydrological Investigations" published by the Northeastern Illinois
metropolitan area planning commission, location of on site wetlands areas or
any other pertinent watershed information.
         b.   Review and report by the Kane-DuPage soil and water conservation
district.
         c.   Soils report which is to be used in the bearing capacity design
for foundations, sewers, pavement subgrades and for environmental concerns.
         d.   Preliminary design calculations and drawings for stormwater
runoff and control facilities as required herein.
         e.   Illinois historical preservation archeological report, phase 1
report.
         f.   Title survey.
         g.   Tree survey.
         h.   Tile survey.
         i.   Inundation exhibit/overflow route exhibit.
         j.   Traffic study. Any development larger than five (5) gross acres
shall be required to prepare and submit a traffic impact study. Said study
should be prepared by a licensed professional engineer to be coordinated by the
village engineer. The traffic study shall be the basis of the village's curb
cut policy. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-8-4: SUBMISSION:
   A.   The staff shall notify the applicant of any limitations of village
services or public improvements which would affect the character of the
development, its size and/or density, prior to plan commission submittal.
   B.   The developer shall then submit all information required by sections
11-8-2 and
11-8-3 of this chapter to the village administrator at least ten (10) days
before the next planning commission meeting.
   C.   The village administrator shall then refer the preliminary plat,
preliminary engineering plan and supporting documents to the planning
commission for consideration. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-8-5: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Action: The planning commission shall, within ninety (90) days of the
receipt of the last item of required information, consider the proposed
preliminary plat of subdivision and preliminary engineering plan as represented
by the documents received, and shall thereupon approve or disapprove the same.
   B.   Reviews: Prior to the planning commission's acting on the proposed
preliminary plat, preliminary engineering plan, and supporting documents, said
preliminary plat, preliminary engineering plan, and supporting documents shall
be reviewed by the village engineer, village attorney, village planner, village
superintendent of public works, village police chief, Winfield's fire district
chief (or other agencies, if applicable), and any other consultants deemed
necessary by the planning commission. The village administration shall also
notify other service districts including, but not limited to, the library
district, park district, and school district for their input and concerns
regarding the impact of the proposed development.
   C.   Changes: If the preliminary plat and engineering plan are not approved
as presented, the planning commission may permit the subdivider to make changes
and additions required by the commission to meet the requirements of this
title.
   D.   Approval: After the proposed preliminary plat, engineering plan and
supporting documents have been prepared to the planning commission's
satisfaction, a recommendation shall be forwarded to the village board.
   E.   Disapproval: If the proposed plan of subdivision as shown by the
preliminary plat and engineering plan is disapproved by the plan commission,
such action with a statement of the reasons for such disapproval, shall be
forwarded to the village board for final action. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-8-6: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES ACTION:
   A.   Action: The village board shall approve or disapprove the preliminary
plat and preliminary engineering plan within forty five (45) days after the
next regular stated meeting following the action of the planning commission.
Preliminary approval shall not qualify a plat for recording. (Ord. 2015-02-05,
2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 9
FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT AND FINAL PLANS
SECTION:
11-9-1: Procedure, Final Subdivision Plat And Plans
11-9-2: Final Subdivision Plat
11-9-3: Supporting Documents
11-9-4: Public Surety; Irrevocable Letter Of Credit; Guarantee Of Completion
And Maintenance Of Improvements
11-9-5: Final Engineering Plans
11-9-6: Conditions Precedent To Approval Of Final Plat
11-9-7: Planning Commission Action On Final Subdivision Plat And Plans
11-9-8: Village Board Action On Final Plat And Plans
11-9-9: Recording Of Final Subdivision Plat
11-9-1: PROCEDURE, FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT AND PLANS:
   A.   The developer shall, within one year after approval of the preliminary
plat and plans, submit all of the documentation required for approval of the
final subdivision plat and engineering plans including one original, one mylar
copy, twenty five (25) copies of the final plat and six (6) copies of the final
engineering plans, each complete with all supporting documents as required. A
copy of the final plat and plans shall also be submitted in PDF form.
   B.   The final subdivision plat and engineering plans shall be in strict
conformance with the preliminary plat and plans, shall be in final form for
recording and shall include all of the property included in the preliminary
plat and plans, unless, prior to the expiration of the two (2) year period from
approval of the preliminary plat and plans, the developer has submitted a
request in writing to the community development director for approval of the
final plat and plans only for a phased portion of the development. The
submission shall be presented to the board of trustees for approval, which may
be given with or without conditions or even denied if the board of trustees
determines that granting the request is not consistent with the approved
preliminary plat and plans.
   C.   All phasing of the final plat and plans, and associated public
improvements, shall be in strict accordance with the phase lines approved on
the overall preliminary plat and plans, and any proposed revision to previously
approved phasing shall be submitted to the community development director with
a request to the board of trustees to consider amendment to the phasing of the
development. The request to amend the phasing of a development shall be
presented to the board of trustees for approval, which may be given with or
without conditions or even denied if the board of trustees determines that
granting the request is not consistent with the approved preliminary plat and
plans.
   D.   The final plat and plans shall be recorded within six (6) months after
approval, and before any work is begun on the development.
   E.   If a final plat and plans are not submitted for approval within twelve
(12) months after approval of the preliminary plat and plans, the preliminary
plat and plans shall be considered void, and the developer must resubmit a
preliminary plat and plans to the site plan review process.
   F.   If a final plat and plans are not recorded within six (6) months from
the date of approval of the final plat and plans, the final plat and plans
shall be considered void, and the developer must resubmit a final plat and
plans for approval. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-9-2: FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT:
   A.   The final plat (sheet size 36 inches x 24 inches) shall be drawn in
black ink on tracing cloth or mylar to a scale of not less than one hundred
feet to one inch (1" = 100') and shall show the following information thereon:
      1.   The name or names of the owners of the property;
      2.   The name of the registered land surveyor who prepared the plat and
date thereof;
      3.   The legal description of the property to be subdivided;
      4.   The boundary of the plat based on accurate traverse, with angular
and linear dimensions;
      5.   Location of all permanent monuments;
      6.   North arrow, scale;
      7.   All other measurements, dimensions, data, and certificates required
by 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 2050.01-205/56, as amended;
      8.   The name, purpose and exact width of all easements and rights of
way;
      9.   The dimensions of all lots, building setback lines, easements, and
area of all lots in square feet with buildable envelope within setback lines
indicated on each lot, all landscape easements, no obstruction sight distance
areas, green space buffers or other easement requirements; indicated buildable
area;
      10.   All lots numbered as in the preliminary plat and the purpose of all
nonresidential lots;
      11.   The number of degrees and minutes of all lot angles other than
ninety degrees (90°), except that when the lines in any tier of lots are
parallel, it shall be sufficient to mark only the outer lot. When any angle is
between a curve and its tangent, the angle shown shall be that between the
tangent and the main chord of the curve. When between curves of different
radii, the angle between the main chords shall be shown;
      12.   When a street is on a circular curve, the main chord of the
centerline shall be drawn as a dotted line in its proper place; and either on
it, or preferably in an adjoining table, shall be noted its bearing and length,
the radius of the circle of which the curve is a part, and the central angle
subtended. The lot lines on the street sides may be shown in the same manner,
or by bearings or angles of distances. When a circular curve of a thirty foot
(30') radius or less is used to round off the intersection between two (2)
straight lines, it shall be tangent to both straight lines; it shall be
sufficient to show on the plat the radius of the curve and the tangent
distances from the points of curvature to the point of intersection of the
straight line.
   B.   On any such plat showing a tract or tracts of land dedicated for park,
playground, or other public use, if such tract or tracts are not located within
the corporate limits of the village of Winfield, the certificate of dedication
shall provide that the future official act of annexation of such tract or
tracts to the village of Winfield shall constitute a transfer of the title to
such tract or tracts to the village of Winfield for such public use. (Ord.
2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-9-3: SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
An original and twenty five (25) copies of the final plat and six (6) copies of
the final engineering plans (36 inches x 24 inches), as herein described, shall
be submitted to the planning commission, each complete with a set of supporting
documents, as follows:
   A.   Final engineering plan according to the requirements of section
11-9-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Drainage overlay. A reproducible mylar drainage overlay drawing with
certificate, as required by the Illinois plat act, shall be submitted to the
village for approval with the final engineering plans. The drainage overlay
drawings shall be at the same scale as the final subdivision plat.
   C.   A statement by a professional engineer representing the developer
registered in the state of Illinois giving a detailed estimate of the total
cost of construction for all proposed improvements.
   D.   Proof of compliance with chapter 6 of this title, dedication of park
lands and school sites or payment of fees in lieu thereof.
   E.   Any and all documents as may be required by the village of Winfield to
ensure that the dedication of all required rights of way and the granting of
all required easements shall be established.
   F.   Any covenants or other documents which place certain restrictions on
the use and development of the property and is intended to be recorded with the
final plat.
   G.   Five (5) completed copies of all permit application forms (IEPA, IDOT,
IDOWR, etc.) required for construction of the proposed improvements. (Ord.
2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-9-4: PUBLIC SURETY; IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT; GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION
AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The improvements required for a particular subdivision or phase of a
subdivision, which shall be set forth in the developer's statement, as
certified by the village engineer, shall be completed within the time set forth
below from approval of the final plat:
      1.   For the underground improvements, within two (2) years; and
      2.   For all other improvements, within four (4) years or seventy five
percent (75%) built out, as defined in subsection 11-4-3A2 of this title,
whichever is earlier.
   B.   To insure the satisfactory completion of the required improvements and
to insure the maintenance of the improvements for one year prior to acceptance
by the village board, the developer shall:
      1.   Deposit with the village, cash in an amount equal to one hundred
percent (100%) of the cost of construction estimate certified by the village
engineer plus an additional twenty percent (20%) of that amount for maintenance
and contingency; or
      2.   Deposit with the village a duly executed irrevocable letter of
credit or bond in the form attached to this title in section
11-19-2, "Appendix B; Irrevocable Letter Of Credit", of this title, from a
financial institution approved by the village and authorized to do business in
the state of Illinois. The letter of credit or bond shall name the village as
beneficiary, shall be in effect for at least one year from its issuance date,
and shall remain in effect thereafter until the village is given ninety (90)
days' notice of an expiration date. The irrevocable letter of credit or bond
shall be in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of
construction estimate certified by the village engineer plus an additional
twenty percent (20%) of that amount for maintenance and contingency. The letter
of credit or bond shall insure the satisfactory completion of the public
improvements and their maintenance for one year prior to acceptance by the
village.
The cash deposit, irrevocable letter of credit or bond in an amount equal to
one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of construction estimate certified by
the village engineer is hereinafter referenced as the "public improvement
surety"; the additional twenty percent (20%) of that amount for contingency and
maintenance obligations is hereinafter referenced as the "contingency/
maintenance surety"; and collectively the sureties are hereinafter referenced
as the "developer's surety".
   C.   During construction of the improvements, the public improvement surety
may be periodically reduced upon approval by the village engineer and community
development director; provided that reductions shall only be allowed as
components of the public improvements, are substantially completed within the
subdivision or approved phase and the public improvement surety may not be
reduced below eighty percent (80%) without approval of the village board.
Reductions of the public improvement surety may be approved for some components
of the public improvements even though other components of the public
improvements may not qualify for a formal determination of substantial
completion and beginning of the one year maintenance period alone. In no event
shall the developer's surety be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the
estimated cost of the improvements not yet completed as determined by the
village engineer (public improvement surety), plus twenty percent (20%) of the
total estimated cost of the improvements not yet completed as a contingency and
for maintenance of the improvements (contingency/maintenance surety).
   D.   A developer shall be responsible to maintain all public improvements
for a minimum of one year after substantial completion and prior to acceptance
by the village board, per section
11-5-5 of this title. To insure the completion of the public improvements and
maintenance of such improvements for a minimum of one year prior to acceptance,
the developer shall deposit the contingency/maintenance surety with the
village, and the village shall hold the contingency/maintenance surety until
the developer's obligations to maintain the public improvements has been
satisfied per section
11-5-5 of this title.
   E.   The contingency/maintenance surety shall recognize the possibility of
maintenance and contingency costs, and the guarantee shall provide for
reimbursement to the village for any maintenance or contingency expenses
incurred by the village in performing such work after failure of the developer
to perform such work after due notice, or without notice when immediate action
is reasonably warranted to prevent or avoid potential harm or jeopardy to the
health, safety and welfare of the public.
   F.   The village has the right to require an increase in the amount of the
developer's surety at any time, and to adjust any reductions in the developer's
surety so that developer's surety at all times is sufficient to cover the total
estimated cost of the public improvements not yet completed plus the twenty
percent (20%) contingency/maintenance surety, as determined by the village
engineer.
   G.   The purpose of the developer's surety is to ensure the completion,
including all of the maintenance obligations following acknowledgement of
substantial completion of the public improvements required for a subdivision.
The developer's surety is not intended as a vehicle for a developer to pay its
contractors and materials necessary for completion of the public improvements.
No reduction of a developer's surety shall be approved without proof of
contractor and material supplier payments and appropriate lien waivers. In
approving a reduction of a developer's surety, the village of Winfield shall
assume no responsibility for the payment of contractors or material suppliers
based on the reductions of the developer's surety. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-9-5: FINAL ENGINEERING PLANS:
   A.   Purpose: The improvement plan stage is for the purpose of accurately
showing how the improvements will be constructed in order to conform to the
layout and design objectives of the preliminary plan. As such, the improvement
plan process is an extension of the preliminary plan process. Where conditions
so warrant, the plat officer may require that portions of improvement plans be
submitted during the preliminary plan review process in order to determine the
land's suitability for the preliminary plan design. Any required off site
improvements and engineering studies shall be provided upon request. Where the
subdivision is to be developed in phases, and where soil and/or topographical
conditions so warrant, the plat officer may require that improvement plans for
the entire preliminary plan area be submitted prior to the construction of
improvements.
   B.   Filing: Prior to the submittal of the final plat, the applicant shall
submit three (3) complete sets of plans and specifications for the construction
of the proposed site improvements. Improvement plans shall not be approved
until after the site has been zoned according to the uses proposed in the
approved preliminary plan. Said plans shall be prepared by an Illinois
registered professional engineer on twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x
36") quality sheets, be designed in accordance with chapters 3 and 4 and this
chapter, other applicable sections of this title and all other applicable
village ordinances.
   C.   Contents: Final engineering plans (24 inches x 36 inches) one inch
equals fifty feet (1" = 50') scale shall, as a minimum, consist of the
following:
      1.   Title sheet (with legend and certification of topographical survey
bench marks and accuracy);
      2.   Project specifications to be incorporated in plans; and general
construction notes;
      3.   Geometric plan;
      4.   Grading plan, which includes the street paving plan, all storm sewer
lines and structures, stormwater retention/detention facilities, erosion
control measures, floodplain and wetland protection measures;
      5.   Master and detailed utility plan, which shows all storm sewers, sump
pump drain lines, sanitary sewers, water main and any other public utility
lines with appurtenant structures;
      6.   Lighting plan, which includes the layout for lighting standards and
underground conduits (typical) for off street parking and/or public street
lighting facilities;
      7.   Street plan and profiles;
      8.   Construction details; and site sections as directed by the village
engineer;
      9.   Sanitary and storm sewer profiles;
      10.   Landscaping plan;
      11.   Soil erosion and sedimentation plan.
   D.   Plan Sheets: Each plan sheet shall include the following information:
      1.   A title block that includes the project name, job number, sheet
title (geometric, grading, etc.), sheet number, date of preparation and latest
revision date;
      2.   North arrow and scales;
      3.   Additional general plan notes and legend as may be required with
original date and revision dates.
   E.   Title Sheet: Title sheet shall include the following information:
      1.   Subdivision name and unit number or phase number;
      2.   Location map;
      3.   Seal, signature, address and phone number of the registered
professional engineer who prepared the plans and the person or firm who
prepared the topographic surveys;
      4.   Developer's name, address and phone number;
      5.   Index of sheets;
      6.   A minimum of two (2) bench marks;
      7.   Dates of preparation and any revisions;
      8.   Summary of quantities for each division of improvement work;
      9.   Standard legend;
      10.   Verification of accuracy of topographic survey by design engineer.
   F.   Project Specifications:
      1.   The project specifications and general construction notes shall
include:
         a.   All on site and off site improvements shall be constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the village of Winfield;
         b.   Permits shall be obtained from all outside governmental agencies
having jurisdiction (Illinois department of transportation, Illinois
environmental protection agency) prior to initiation of construction activity
(any IEPA application for construction shall be completed and submitted to the
village for signature with the final subdivision plans);
         c.   All structure adjustments shall be accomplished with concrete
adjusting rings, and watertight sealed with bitumastic "Easy Stik".
         d.   Existing field tiles encountered during construction shall be
integrated into the site drainage system, in a manner deemed appropriate by the
village engineer. All tile connections shall be reviewed by village engineer
prior to reconnection work;
         e.   The developer shall be responsible for all adjustments before and
after final inspection, prior to final acceptance by the village of Winfield;
         f.   The village must have seventy two (72) hours' notice prior to the
initiation of construction activity and mandatory preconstruction meeting with
developer and field representative; no construction or ground disturbance
(i.e., any stripping of topsoil, tree removal or grading other than soil
borings) shall commence prior to preconstruction meeting (refer to section
11-4-2 of this title);
         g.   The testing and sterilization of all new water distribution
facilities shall be completed prior to making water service taps;
         h.   Material specifications comply with village standards and
include:
            (1)   Paving base materials,
            (2)   Paving surface materials,
            (3)   Concrete materials,
            (4)   Pipe materials;
         i.   All restoration work in the public right of way subject to the
specific approval of the village engineer. Developer shall procure hydrant
meter from village water superintendent for any construction use of water from
village hydrants;
         j.   Village public works department, village police department and
the fire district shall be notified a minimum of seventy two (72) hours prior
to road or water main shutdowns, all in accordance with preconstruction meeting
coordination;
         k.   Contractor shall contact JULIE (1-800-892-0123) prior to any
excavation work (including section, township, and range numbers of property
with note). Contractor responsible to locate utilities until village acceptance
of improvements;
         l.   Contractor shall maintain pavement crossing cuts until final
pavement restoration is complete and accepted by the village engineer;
         m.   Water distribution plans and specifications shall conform to
"Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois" and
village ordinances. If a conflict arises, the village ordinances shall govern;
         n.   Pavement, curb and gutter, sidewalks, and storm sewer shall
conform to "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT;
         o.   A reproducible mylar set (signed and sealed by a professional
engineer) and two (2) mylar copies and an electronic file of "record drawings"
shall be submitted to the village prior to any final acceptance. Said "record
drawings" shall indicate the exact final location and layout of all
improvements; include verification of all building pad, top of foundation,
invert, rim and spot grade elevations; and incorporate all field design changes
approved by the village.
   G.   Geometric Plan: Geometric plan shall include the following information:
      1.   The geometric plan to show site boundaries and lot layout shall be a
copy of the final plat, reduced if required, without the certificates;
      2.   All necessary geometric data required to lay out the proposed
improvements;
      3.   Show all streets adjacent to and within one hundred feet (100') of
project site;
      4.   Show all site access roadways and driveways within one hundred feet
(100') of project site;
      5.   All necessary geometric data required to show existing and proposed
easements;
      6.   Street right of way width;
      7.   Street centerline and radii and curve data;
      8.   Right of way radii and curve data;
      9.   Street pavement width;
      10.   Location of curb and gutter;
      11.   Intersection geometric data;
      12.   Parking lot dimensioning and data including: lot aisle widths,
space dimensions, handicap space dimensions, loading berth dimensions, curb
radii, angle of parking, throat width of drives, angle of driveway at street
intersection;
      13.   Setback lines and distances for all proposed building, parking
lots, etc.;
      14.   Proposed building footprint outlines;
      15.   Nonresidential site area in square feet:
         a.   Office buildings area in square feet (if applicable);
         b.   Warehouse building area in square feet (if applicable);
      16.   Building ties:
         a.   Distance to front lot line, rear lot line, interior side lot
line, and exterior lot line (if applicable),
         b.   Distance to all existing off site buildings within one hundred
feet (100') of the subject site.
   H.   Grading Plan: Grading plan shall include the following information:
      1.   Existing and proposed finished ground topography of site at one foot
(1') contour intervals extending for one hundred feet (100') onto adjacent
properties;
      2.   All existing structures located and described;
      3.   All streets, driveways, parking lots, and other paved areas;
      4.   Longitudinal slope of parkways and driveways where required;
      5.   Locations of all trees exceeding six inches (6") in diameter;
      6.   Flood hazard and wetlands delineation:
         a.   Floodway delineation;
         b.   100-year floodplain delineation;
         c.   Drainage watershed delineation;
         d.   Wetlands and other flora areas delineation;
         e.   Delineation of all major watercourses;
      7.   Curb and gutter, sidewalks;
      8.   Typical street cross section:
         a.   Transverse slope;
      9.   Storm and sump pump drainage appurtenances:
         a.   Number all storm sewer structures;
         b.   Rim and invert grades and pipe sizes noted for all drainage
structures;
      10.   All elevations including contours shall be referenced to USGS
datum:
         a.   Existing contours to be shown as light dashed lines;
         b.   Proposed contours to be shown as heavy solid lines;
      11.   Spot elevations at break points, at all lot corners, and top curb
elevation at all property lines extended to curb line;
      12.   Proposed building footprint with top foundation elevation and,
where applicable, garage floor elevation. Basement floor elevation for proposed
building with walkout basement or adjacent to flood hazard area;
      13.   Drainage arrows around all proposed building foundations, along lot
lines, swales, ditches, and wherever else required to delineate surface
drainage direction and pattern;
      14.   Retaining wall and details;
      15.   Stormwater overflow routing with applicable cross sections and
profiles;
      16.   Stormwater retention or detention storage basin:
         a.   Outline of the storage basin with finished contours at one foot
(1') intervals;
         b.   Typical cross sections showing the degree of side slopes, four to
one (4:1) maximum; top of bank elevations, bottom elevations and proposed
storage elevations;
         c.   Finished surface restoration including any slope stabilization or
protection;
         d.   Inlet and release structures with details;
         e.   Any subsurface (bottom) drainage system;
         f.   Designation if a dry or wet bottom basin;
         g.   High and, where applicable, normal water storage elevation;
         h.   Calculated water storage volume in acre-feet;
Where a stormwater management facility is to be dedicated to the Winfield park
district, the design of said facility shall comply with the criteria stipulated
by the park district;
      17.   Erosion and sedimentation control measures applicable to site
grading.
   I.   Designation Of Critical Lots For Drainage: Master and detailed utility
plan shall include the following information:
      1.   Location and size (if applicable) of all existing utility lines and
their appurtenant structures located on site or within the construction limits
of proposed off site improvements;
      2.   Location and size of all proposed on site and off site water mains,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and sump pump drain lines, and their appurtenant
structures (hydrants, valves, manholes, etc.) which shall be numbered for
reference;
      3.   The finished frame elevation and invert elevations shall be given
for all structures;
      4.   The plan shall indicate size, slope, purpose, length, and type of
material of all proposed utility lines;
      5.   Show all locations where granular trench backfill is required;
      6.   All existing structures which require adjusting, reconstruction or
filling shall be noted on plan;
      7.   The plan shall conform to overall village plans for any trunk lines,
existing or proposed, which traverse the subdivision;
      8.   Depict adjacent property lines for proper utility and street
extensions;
      9.   Hydrant locations, dimension to the back of the nearest curb, final
grade ring elevation;
      10.   Valve vault and valve box locations, with description including
size and type of valve, final adjusted grade;
      11.   Note that thrust blocks shall be at all bends, tees and plugs for
all water mains;
      12.   Provide vertical and horizontal clearance between water main and
sanitary/storm sewer in accordance with standard specifications.
   J.   Lighting Plan: Lighting plan shall include the following information.
All exterior illumination shall be per the outdoor lighting ordinance and shall
include:
      1.   Light pole locations, heights and spacing;
      2.   Site lighting shall be directed or shaded to avoid casting direct
light upon any residential district;
      3.   Control system and underground site wiring diagram specifying cable
size, locations and material;
      4.   Typical installation section per village standard:
         a.   Type of base and pole,
         b.   Bracket or arm,
         c.   Luminaire, indicating type of lamp/wattage,
         d.   Mounting height;
      5.   Photometrics. All off street parking areas, loading facilities and
commercial driveway aisles shall be provided with a minimum average maintained
horizontal illumination value of one-half (1/2) foot-candle. A photometric plan
shall be submitted that designates light pole locations and displays
illumination values by one of the following methods:
         a.   Illumination levels verified by showing illumination values at
control points spaced at ten foot (10') intervals superimposed by grid layout
on a geometric site plan;
         b.   Illumination values displayed as ISO illumination lines showing
horizontal intensity superimposed on a geometric site plan;
      6.   Catalog cuts and specifications from manufacturer shall be provided
when requested by the village.
   K.   Street Plans: Street plan profiles and sections shall include the
following information:
      1.   Plan view of all proposed street and sidewalk improvements showing,
but not limited to, street name, centerlines with stationing and horizontal
curve data, right of way lines and widths, pavement outline and widths,
sidewalks, curb and gutter, return radii, all storm sewers and other drain
lines with structures, and, where applicable, shoulders and drainage ditches;
      2.   Plan view shall show all locations where granular trench backfill is
required;
      3.   Centerline profile of existing ground line with elevations shown at
one hundred foot (100') intervals minimum;
      4.   Centerline profile of proposed pavement surface with grades,
vertical curve data, and elevations shown at one hundred foot (100') intervals
minimum;
      5.   Profile of all proposed storm sewers and other drain lines with
structures within the plan view area showing pipe size, slope, length, type of
material, and finished frame and invert elevations for structures;
      6.   Profile of all utility crossings where a grade conflict may occur;
      7.   Typical sheet cross sections showing all proposed street
construction within the right of way and the calculated pavement structural
number;
      8.   Street cross sections at one hundred foot (100') intervals minimum
when rural ditch cross sections are used;
      9.   Plan view scale shall be one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50')
maximum and profile scales shall be horizontal same as plan and vertical one
inch equals five feet (1" = 5').
   L.   Construction Details: Construction details shall include the following
information. All details shall be of type standard with the village of
Winfield, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Manholes, inlets, catch basins, vaults;
      2.   Standard utility structure covers;
      3.   Standard valve and hydrant installation;
      4.   Drainage structures;
      5.   Concrete curb and gutter;
      6.   Thrust block installation;
      7.   Service connections;
      8.   Paving installation, pavement section, and pavement design
structural number;
      9.   Stormwater restrictor;
      10.   Streetlights;
      11.   Soil erosion control details;
      12.   Sanitary sewer details.
   M.   Sanitary Sewer Profiles: Sanitary sewer profiles shall be provided for
all proposed sanitary sewers.
   N.   Landscaping Plan: Landscaping plan shall include trees to be preserved,
screening where required, the restoration of site flora and other areas to be
stabilized and enriched according to this chapter and all other village
requirements.
   O.   Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Plan: Soil erosion and sedimentation
plan shall include the location, type and details of all required site soil
erosion control measures, and shall show any proposed ground cover areas such
as seeding and/or sodding, according to the village of Winfield and DuPage
County's soil erosion control plan per the stormwater ordinance.
   P.   Stormwater Documents: Stormwater documents shall include: final
studies, reports, drawings and calculations for all proposed stormwater sewers,
drain lines, culverts, retention or detention storage basins, flood routing,
and any other site stormwater management documentation requested during staff
review.
   Q.   Supplementary Traffic Report: A supplementary traffic report shall be
provided for all residential developments larger than twenty (20) units (or
commercial developments larger than 15,000 square feet), which shall outline
trip generation, distribution and impact to adjacent roadway network. The
traffic report shall be the basis for the village's curb cut policy.
   R.   Supplementary Cost Benefit Report: A financial report shall be
submitted for all residential developments larger than twenty (20) units (or
commercial developments larger than 15,000 square feet), which shall itemize
annualized cost impact (including public works, police, etc.), and provide
direct annualized benefit (revenue from sales and real estate taxes, etc.)
which can be anticipated.
   S.   Minor Modification: As defined as being in close conformance with
previously approved plan and having no change in density, use or impact to
village or adjoining property, may be approved by the village administrator.
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-9-6: CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT:
No final plat shall be recommended for approval by the plan commission or
approved by the village board of trustees unless all of the following
conditions are met:
   A.   The final plat must be submitted with final engineering plans in
accordance with the requirements of section
11-9-1 of this chapter.
   B.   Reserved.
   C.   All of the information required for final plats pursuant to section
11-9-2 of this chapter has been provided and adequately shown.
   D.   All of the supporting documents identified and required in section
11-9-3 of this chapter have been provided.
   E.   The amount of the public surety (cash deposit, letter of credit or
bond) to be required must be identified and approved.
   F.   The final engineering plans submitted with the plat shall be in
compliance with sound engineering practices and all of the requirements of
section
11-9-5 of this chapter; and the village engineer has certified such in
compliance on the submitted final plat.
   G.   All of the dedications, as required by ordinance or otherwise lawfully
required by the village, have been clearly included, subject to the conditions
required in section
11-9-4 of this chapter and chapter 6 of this title, and in a form that is
acceptable to the village.
   H.   Any and all other requirements imposed as a condition on the approval
and recording the final plat that are contained in any annexation agreement,
development or redevelopment agreement or other agreement with the village must
be satisfied.
   I.   Signature blocks shall be included on the final plat for all
governmental bodies and agencies having any right of review or interest
affected, including signature blocks for the village plan commission chairman,
president, clerk and community development director or designated
representative of the community development department assigned with the
responsibility to oversee the subdivision process.
   J.   The font size on final plats shall be no smaller than 10-point. (Ord.
2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-9-7: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION ON FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT AND PLANS:
   A.   Hearing: The community development director or other person designated
with the responsibility of overseeing the subdivision process by the village
board shall determine when all of the criteria for submittal of a final
subdivision plat and plans have been submitted and shall schedule a public
hearing before the plan commission. The village shall notify the subdivider, or
his or her representative, of the time and place for hearing on the final plat
and plans.
   B.   Reviews: The community development director or other designate shall
seek the review of all final plats, final engineering plans and supporting
documents and comments from the village engineer, attorney, administrator,
public works department, police department, community development department,
the Winfield fire department and other consultants reasonably necessary for the
thorough consideration prior to submittal to the plan commission and public
hearing.
   C.   Village Engineer's Approval: Prior to the planning commission's
approval of the final plat of subdivision, final improvement plans, and
supporting documents, the village engineer shall submit a written report
stating that, in his or her opinion, the final plat, final engineering plans
and the engineer's estimate of construction cost meets the minimum requirements
of the village's subdivision control ordinance and other ordinances of the
village, and are acceptable.
   D.   Action: The planning commission shall approve or disapprove the final
plat, final subdivision plans, and supporting documents within sixty (60) days
of the submission of the last item or required data to the commission.
   E.   Disapproval: If the proposed plan of subdivision as shown of the final
subdivision plat and plan is disapproved by the plan commission, such action
with a statement of the reasons for such disapproval, shall be forwarded to the
village board for final action.
   F.   Approval: When the plan commission has recommended a final plat and
engineering plans for approval, the community development director or other
designee shall place the final plat and plans on the agenda of the next
practicable committee of the whole or board meeting along with a summary of the
plan commission's recommendation, minutes and any other documentation that is
helpful to the determination. After the board of trustees approves a final
plat, the plat shall be signed by the plan commission chairman, community
development director, village president and village clerk. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-
5-2015)
11-9-8: VILLAGE BOARD ACTION ON FINAL PLAT AND PLANS:
When all of the conditions precedent to approval of a final plat, together with
the final engineering plans and supporting documents, have been met for a
proposed development, the village board shall approve the final plat and plans
by motion. After the village board has approved a final plat and the required
public surety (cash deposit, letter of credit or bond) has been filed with the
village, the plan commission chairman, village president, village clerk and
community development director or designated representative of the community
development department, shall date and sign the approval certificates on the
final plat. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-9-9: RECORDING OF FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT:
   A.   No final plat may be recorded until all of the signatures of all of the
governmental bodies having a right of review or interest affected, including
the village as prescribed in section
11-9-8 of this chapter, have signed the plat.
   B.   No final plat shall be recorded until the surety required (cash deposit
or letter of credit) guaranteeing the completion of the public improvements in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter has been provided in a form
acceptable to the village.
   C.   An approved and fully signed final subdivision plat shall be recorded
in the DuPage County recorder of deeds office within six (6) months after
approval by the village board and all of the signatures of the required village
personnel are affixed. If the final plat is not recorded within the time frame
set forth above, the approval shall lapse and shall be null and void and of no
force and effect.
   D.   No building permits shall be issued for any subdivided property without
the approval and recording of a final plat. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 10
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-10-1: Village Board
11-10-2: Planning Commission
11-10-3: Village Engineer
11-10-4: Village Administrator, Village Planner, Village Attorney, Police
Chief, Fire Chief, Superintendent Of Public Works, Superintendent Of Building
And Zoning And Other Consultants
11-10-5: Village Administrator
11-10-1: VILLAGE BOARD:
The village board is vested with the following responsibilities with regard to
this title:
   A.   Approval or disapproval of all preliminary plats and plans;
   B.   Approval or disapproval of all final plats and plans from this title;
   C.   Approval or disapproval of all requested variations and exceptions;
   D.   Approval or disapproval of all final engineering plans as reviewed and
approved by village engineer;
   E.   Hear and decide appeals from the decisions of the planning commission;
   F.   Institute appropriate proceedings to enforce the provisions of this
title;
   G.   Acknowledgement of substantial completion of public improvements to
initiate one year maintenance period; and
   H.   Approval of easement plats for recording. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-10-2: PLANNING COMMISSION:
The planning commission shall administer the provisions of this title and in
addition thereto, and in furtherance of said authority, shall:
   A.   Maintain permanent and current records of this title including
amendments thereto;
   B.   Forward copies of the preliminary and final plats and plans to other
appropriate officers and agencies for their recommendations, reports, and
action;
   C.   Receive, review and forward final plats and plans to the village board
with recommendations;
   D.   Ensure compliance with this title in all final and preliminary plats,
plans and supporting documents;
   E.   Make all other recommendations to the village board as required by this
title; and
   F.   Have all other power and authority as granted by law. (Ord. 2015-02-05,
2-5-2015)
11-10-3: VILLAGE ENGINEER:
The village engineer shall be vested with the responsibility and duty of
reviewing all preliminary and final plats, preliminary and final engineering
plans and supporting documents, making determinations in the areas of design
standards and engineering specifications. Additionally, and in furtherance of
said responsibility, the engineer shall:
   A.   Approve the developer's estimate of costs for required improvements;
   B.   Furnish all approval statements as required by this title;
   C.   Assist the village board and planning commission in setting engineering
standards for improvements and establishing the limits of compliance with said
standards;
   D.   Review all preliminary plat and plans for the village board and plan
commission; and
   E.   Review the final plat for completeness and agreement with the
conditions of the approved preliminary plat and plan. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-
2015)
11-10-4: VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR, VILLAGE PLANNER, VILLAGE ATTORNEY, POLICE
CHIEF, FIRE CHIEF, SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, SUPERINTENDENT OF BUILDING
AND ZONING AND OTHER CONSULTANTS:
Said officials and consultants shall be asked from time to time to set
standards, make comment, and review plats and plans according to the provisions
of this title. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-10-5: VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Maintain permanent and current records of this title including, but not
limited to, all maps, amendments, variations, exceptions, appeals,
applications, plats, plans, and agreements.
   B.   Prepare and update a calendar for action on each application for
subdivision.
   C.   Schedule such meetings as are necessary to meet the calendar
requirements of the commission and board.
   D.   Notify all developers of the actions of the plan commission and the
village board.
   E.   Prepare a summary of the facts and recommendation of the planning
commission for the village board; and forward the same to the village board for
final approval of the plat and plans.
   F.   Compute the requirements for park/school dedication; and report same to
the village board.
   G.   Coordinate the review of the plat, plans, and any agreements being
reviewed by the village engineer, village attorney, superintendent of public
works, superintendent of building and zoning, police chief, and the fire chief,
and transmit all recommendations to the planning commission and village board.
   H.   Assist the commission and the board in assessing the need for and
conditions of oversized improvements, maintenance agreements, necessary bonds
for public improvements, recording of plats and agreements and in-place plans.
   I.   Report any violation of this title to the village board for action; and
keep a record of each inspection notice, and final disposition of each reported
violation.
   J.   Ensure that the official village map, the official land use plan for
the village of Winfield and its mile and a half planning area, and the records
for subdivisions outside the corporate limits of the village of Winfield, in
the planning area, are accurate and up to date.
   K.   Collect all fees for plat and plan review as provided in section
1-7-5 of this code. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 11
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-11-1: Enforcement Of Regulations
11-11-1: ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations contained herein shall be enforced as specified below:
   A.   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell such parcel before a plat of such
subdivision has been approved by the village board, in accordance with the
provisions of this title, and filed with the recorder of deeds of DuPage
County, Illinois.
   B.   The subdivision of any lot or any other parcel of land by the use of
meets and bounds description with the intent of evading this title is expressly
prohibited.
   C.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building
or structure located on a lot or parcel subdivided or sold in violation of this
title.
   D.   No sewer or water hookup will be granted unless all the requirements of
this title and all other pertinent ordinances have been satisfied.
   E.   No plat of subdivision shall be approved which does not comply with all
the provisions of this title.
   F.   No permanent occupancy permit shall be granted by any governing
official for the use of any structure within a subdivision approved for
platting until required utility facilities have been installed and made ready
to service the property and until roadways providing access to the subject
property, lot or lots have been constructed.
   G.   The building and zoning commissioner may grant a temporary occupancy
permit if weather or other conditions prevent completion of the final grading,
cement work, or landscaping. Temporary permits shall only be effective for six
(6) months from the date of issue and will only be issued after the payment of
a bond amount that is set from time to time by action of the village board.
   H.   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded with the
DuPage County recorder's office or have any validity until it shall have been
approved in the manner prescribed by law and provided for herein.
   I.   No improvements such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater drainage,
sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service or lighting or grading,
paving or surfacing of streets, shall hereafter be made within any such
subdivision by any owner or owners or his or her or their agent or by any
public service corporation at the request of such owner or owners or of his or
her agent until the plans for improvements thereto have been formally
recommended by the planning commission and approved by the village board of the
village of Winfield.
   J.   Continuing street cleanliness shall be the developer's express
responsibility, required daily, or immediately if a safety hazard is noted.
   K.   Temporary stockpile of materials on public streets shall be cleaned
prior to leaving job site that day. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 12
VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
SECTION:
11-12-1: Variations And Exceptions From Requirements
11-12-1: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS FROM REQUIREMENTS:
When the developer can show that a provision of this title would cause
unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to, and where, because of
topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, these conditions are
sufficient reason for a variation, staff and plan commission may consequently
recommend variations to the village board. The village board may approve
variations from these requirements only in specific cases which, in its
opinion, do not affect the general intent or the spirit of this title. (Ord.
2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 13
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-13-1: Planned Unit Developments Generally
11-13-1: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS GENERALLY:
Plats, plans and specifications for planned unit developments may vary from the
strict requirements and provisions of this title in order to better comply with
the provisions of the zoning ordinance of the village of Winfield. The order of
application, amount, type, kind, and character of required submissions; and the
nature of approval and entitlements of approval may vary according to the
provisions of the aforesaid section of the zoning ordinance. However, a
developer may not present an application for a planned unit development solely
to circumvent the provisions of this title.
All provisions of this title shall be adhered to, and any waivers from this
title shall be called out on the final engineering plan cover sheet. (Ord.
2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 14
APPEALS
SECTION:
11-14-1: Appeals Of Decisions
11-14-1: APPEALS OF DECISIONS:
Any party aggrieved by a decision of the planning commission may, within thirty
(30) days thereafter, appeal such decision to the village board. The notice of
appeal shall include the plan commission decision appealed from and a statement
of reasons for the appeal. Plan commission disapproval or partial approval of
preliminary plats, improvement plans, final plats of subdivision, and final
improvement plans are not governed by this section, but are addressed in
sections
11-9-6 and
11-9-7 of this title. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 15
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
11-15-1: Amendments To Title
11-15-1: AMENDMENTS TO TITLE:
The village board may, from time to time, after review and recommendation from
the public works committee, amend this title and any of the chapters, sections
or provisions hereof consistent with the authority and jurisdiction of a non-
home rule municipality. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 16
FEES AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
11-16-1: Fees
11-16-2: Additional Development Fees
11-16-3: Penalty For Violation
11-16-4: Project Shutdown
11-16-1: FEES:
It is the obligation of the developer to pay all administrative, professional,
consulting in house planning and review, and public hearing expenses, including
court reporter fees, incurred by the Village in processing and acting upon
petitions or requests for land development. The payment of such fees and
expenses shall be assured by the deposit in advance of sums to cover such fees
and expenses. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-16-2: ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT FEES:
Additional development fees may be adopted by the Village from time to time. It
is the developer's sole and express responsibility to discover if additional
fees are applicable. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-16-3: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this title shall be subject to a
fine as provided in section
13-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
11-16-4: PROJECT SHUTDOWN:
If a developer ignores written notification from the Village of a violation of
this title or any other ordinance of the Village relating to the development of
land and the construction renovation or demolition of structures within the
Village, the Village has the right to halt all construction and development
proceedings. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 17
ZONING MAP, PLAN AND DRAWINGS
SECTION:
11-17-1: Zoning Map
11-17-2: Standard Drawings And Illustrations
11-17-3: Comprehensive Plan
11-17-1: ZONING MAP:
The zoning map of the village of Winfield (as amended from time to time)
becomes a part of this title. The zoning map is the official plat and boundary
map of the village of Winfield. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-17-2: STANDARD DRAWINGS AND ILLUSTRATIONS:
All standard drawings and illustrations and maps attached to this title become
a part thereof; and shall have the full force and effect of any and all of the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-17-3: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan (as amended from time to time) for the village of
Winfield and mile and a half (11/2) planning area becomes a part of this title.
The village of Winfield claims jurisdiction over the area shown on said
comprehensive plan. All provisions and regulations in this title shall be
enforced throughout the area shown on the comprehensive plan, and it is deemed
to be a part of this title and is incorporated herein as if fully set forth
herein. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 18
SEVERABILITY, EFFECT, DATE OF EFFECT
SECTION:
11-18-1: Severability
11-18-2: Effect
11-18-1: SEVERABILITY:
If any article, section, subsection, clause or phrase of this title is for any
reason held to be void, such decision shall not affect the validity of any
other article, section, subsection, clause or phrase.
If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any application of any
provision of this title to a particular property, building or structure as
invalid, such judgment shall not affect the application of said provision to
any other property, building or structure not specifically included in the
judgment. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-18-2: EFFECT:
This title shall supersede all prior and inconsistent ordinances. All
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
title, unless such conflict is specifically provided for herein, are repealed.
This title shall be in full force from and after its passage and publication,
in pamphlet form, according to law. (Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
CHAPTER 19
SUBDIVISION APPENDICES
SECTION:
11-19-1: Appendix A; Standard Drawings
11-19-2: Appendix B; Irrevocable Letter Of Credit
11-19-3: Appendix C; Utility Easements
11-19-4: Appendix D; Example - Stormwater Management Area Maintenance
Provisions Lots
11-19-5: Appendix E; Bill Of Sale
11-19-1: APPENDIX A; STANDARD DRAWINGS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2436.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2438.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2440.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2442.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2444.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2446.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2448.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2450.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2452.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2454.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2456.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2458.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2460.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2462.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2464.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2466.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2468.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2470.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2472.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2474.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2476.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2478.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2480.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2482.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2484.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2486.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2488.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2490.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2490.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2492.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2494.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2496.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2498.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2500.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2502.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e69e56974fd8eb3967f8b4473ce72c7a644bafb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2504.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-19-2: APPENDIX B; IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT:
    IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT
                       , 20        
Village Winfield
Expiration Date:
27 W 465 Jewell Road
Winfield, Illinois 60190
Number:
Amount:
Gentlemen:
We hereby establish our Irrevocable Letter of Credit in your favor for the
account of (Name and Address) (the "Developer"), in the aggregate amount of
$                     available by your draft drawn at sight and marked "Drawn
under (identify letter of credit), dated                      and accompanied
by the following document:
A SIGNED STATEMENT BY THE VILLAGE MANAGER, OR THE VILLAGE PRESIDENT OF THE
VILLAGE OF WINFIELD CERTIFYING THAT: (1) ANY PORTION OF THE PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED BY VILLAGE ORDINANCE ON THE PROJECT, FOR THE PROJECT
KNOWN AS                               , APPROVED BY THE VILLAGE ENGINEER, HAVE
NOT BEEN SATISFACTORILY COMMENCED, CONTINUED TOWARD COMPLETION OR COMPLETED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH SAID PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS OR (2) THAT AN AMOUNT IS DUE AND
UNPAID FOR WORK COMPLETED ON SAID PROJECT OR (3) THAT HAS FAILED TO RENEW THIS
LETTER OF CREDIT 60 DAYS PRIOR TO ITS EXPIRATION.
The improvements in the above-described project shall be completed before
                     (90 days prior to expiration date). If said improvements
have not been installed before that date and approved by the Village Engineer,
then the Village is hereby granted authority to draw upon this Irrevocable
Letter of Credit for the purpose of completing said improvements or making
payments in accordance with the provisions herein and above set forth. Partial
and several draws will be accepted. Any draft may draw up to the entire
remaining balance hereunder. This Letter of Credit may be drawn upon by the
Village Engineer at any time in the event that the above-described improvements
are not being satisfactorily implemented in accordance with the Village of
Winfield Subdivision Ordinance, the engineering plans and specifications as
approved by the Village Engineer and/or with the terms of any required permits
throughout the term of the project. This Letter of Credit may also be drawn
upon in the event that the above- described improvements have not been
completed within the times set out in the Village Subdivision Ordinance and any
required permit(s). A written statement, signed by the Village Engineer, in
substantially the same form as that attached hereto as Exhibit "A", stating
that the proposed public improvements and other related work are not being
satisfactorily implemented and/or have not been completed within the time set
out in said time schedule as approved by the Village Engineer shall be deemed a
sufficient request to draw on this Letter of Credit.
The principal amount of this Irrevocable Letter of Credit shall not be reduced
for any subdivision improvements installed unless such reduction is approved by
the Village Manager. The Village may submit its site drafts as hereinabove
provided without the consent of the Developer or any other party. Said drafts
may be submitted for payment on or after (60 days prior to expiration) and
shall be honored in accordance with the terms and provisions herein contained.
This Irrevocable Letter of Credit shall be utilized to secure the installation
of all improvements required under the subdivision and other germane ordinances
of the Village of Winfield. This Irrevocable Letter of Credit shall not operate
as a limitation upon the obligation of the Developer to install all
improvements required by the Village of Winfield.
Sixty days (60) prior to the expiration of this Irrevocable Letter of Credit,
we shall notify the corporate authorities of the Village, by registered letter,
return receipt requested, of the impending expiration date. This commitment
shall not terminate without such notice. In the event that the sixty day (60)
notice is not sent on a timely basis, this commitment shall remain in effect
until the 60th day after the receipt by the Village of the late-filed notice.
We hereby agree that drafts drawn under and in compliance with the terms of
this Letter of Credit shall be honored no later than the close of the seventh
banking day following presentment. If, within seven banking days after any
draft drawn under this Letter of Credit is presented to us in conformance with
the terms of this Letter of Credit, we fail to honor same, we agree to pay all
reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs and other expenses incurred by the
Village of Winfield in enforcing the terms hereof.
         Very truly yours,
             BANK
         BY:    
         TITLE:    
(Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017)
EXHIBIT A
FORM DEMAND LETTER
(Engineer's Letterhead)
(Date)
To: [Financial Institution Name and Address] Attention: [Financial Institution
Officer]
Re: (Financial Institution Name) Irrevocable Letter of Credit No.           
Subdivision:          
Expiration Date:       
Dear Sir or Madam:
This is a demand for payment, drawn on (financial institution name) Letter of
Credit No.            of $                United States Dollars.
This demand is made in compliance with the conditions specified in the credit,
to wit:
[T]his irrevocable credit is to be used to insure that all public improvements,
stormwater management facilities and other related work proposed by, or on
behalf of (applicant name), for (Subdivision), comply with the Village of
Winfield Subdivision Ordinance, the engineering plans and specifications as
approved by the Village Engineer and with the terms of the required permit(s):
                          throughout the term of the project, and to insure the
completion of all public improvements, stormwater management facilities and
other related work in the time required by the Village of Winfield Subdivision
Ordinance and the required permit(s):                     .
[The] Letter of Credit may be drawn upon by the Village Engineer at any time in
the event that the above-described improvements are not being satisfactorily
implemented in accordance with the Village of Winfield Subdivision Ordinance,
the engineering plans and specifications for that project as approved by the
Village Engineer and the required permit(s):                . This Letter of
Credit may also be drawn upon in the event that the above-described
improvements have not been completed within the times set out in Subdivision
Ordinance and the required permit(s):                .
The aforementioned access improvements, stormwater management facilities and
other related work are not being satisfactorily implemented and/or have not
been completed within the time set out in the aforementioned time schedule.
Pursuant to the terms of the Letter of Credit, this demand for payment shall be
honored no later than the close of the seventh banking day following receipt of
this demand for payment. The draft shall be payable to "Village of Winfield"
and delivered to the Village Manager, Village of Winfield, 27W465 Jewell Rd,
Winfield, IL 60910.
Sincerely,
Village Engineer
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-19-3: APPENDIX C; UTILITY EASEMENTS:
   UTILITY EASEMENTS
Each Final Plat submitted to the Village of Winfield for approval shall include
an easement certificate in substantially the following form:
A permanent non-exclusive easement is hereby reserved for and granted to the
Village of Winfield and to all public utility companies of any kind operating
under franchise granting them easement rights from the Village, including, but
not limited to, COMCAST, INC., AT&T, COMMONWEALTH EDISON COMPANY and NORTHERN
ILLINOIS GAS COMPANY and to their successors and assigns in, upon, across,
over, under and through the areas shown by dashed lines and labeled public
utilities and drainage easement for the purpose of installing, constructing,
inspecting, operating, replacing, renewing, altering, enlarging, removing,
repairing, cleaning, and maintaining electrical cable television,
communication, gas, telephone or other utility lines or appurtenances, sanitary
and storm sewers, drainage ways, storm water detention and retention,
watermains and any and all manholes, hydrants, pipes, connections, catch
basins, buffalo boxes, and without limitation, such other installations as may
be required to furnish public utility service to adjacent areas, and such
appurtenances and additions thereto as said Village and utilities may deem
necessary, together with the right of access across the real estate platted
hereon for the necessary personnel and equipment to do any or all of the above
work. The right is also hereby granted to said Village and utilities to cut
down, trim or remove any trees, shrubs, or other plants that interfere with the
operation of or access to said sewers or without limitation, utility
installations in, on, upon, or across, under or through said easements. No
permanent buildings shall be placed on said easements, but same may be used for
gardens, trees, shrubs, landscaping, and other purposes that do not then or
later interfere with the aforesaid uses and rights. Where an easement is used
for storm sewers, sanitary sewers or any other utility installation, it shall
be subject to the prior approval of said Village so as not to interfere with
other utility lines and drainage. After installation of said utility lines, the
final surface of the easement shall be restored in a manner so as not to
interfere with proper operation and drainage thereof. Fences shall not be
erected upon said easement except where specifically permitted by written
authority of the Village of Winfield.
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-19-4: APPENDIX D; EXAMPLE - STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AREA MAINTENANCE
PROVISIONS LOTS:
EXAMPLE
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AREA MAINTENANCE PROVISIONS LOTS
THE OWNERS, ON BEHALF OF ITSELF, ITS SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, AND ALL FUTURE
HOLDERS OF TITLE (COLLECTIVELY, THE OWNERS) TO ANY PORTION OF LOTS           
OF THIS PLAT (THE PROPERTY), HEREBY COVENANTS AND AGREES WITH THE VILLAGE OF
WINFIELD (THE "VILLAGE") AS FOLLOWS:
THE OWNERS OF LOT            SHALL MAINTAIN, OPERATE, AND REPAIR THE PORTIONS
OF THE PROPERTY IDENTIFIED ON THIS PLAT AS THE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT EASEMENT
AREA ON LOT            AT ALL TIMES IN A MANNER CONSISTENT WITH THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS APPROVED BY THE VILLAGE (AND UPON REQUEST, FURNISH PROOF OF
COMPLIANCE THEREWITH). THE OWNERS OF LOT            GRANT TO THE VILLAGE AND
ITS DESIGNEES THE RIGHT OF ACCESS UPON, OVER, AND ACROSS THE PROPERTY TO
INSPECT THE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT EASEMENT AREA AND TO PERFORM ANY MAINTENANCE
OF SAID AREAS (AND TO STORE EQUIPMENT NECESSARY THEREFORE) WHICH THE OWNER HAS
FAILED TO PERFORM, IF SUCH FAILURE CONTINUES FOR THIRTY (30) DAYS AFTER WRITTEN
NOTICE FROM THE VILLAGE OF SUCH FAILURE. THE VILLAGE MAY ENTER UPON THE
PROPERTY AND PERFORM SUCH WORK AS SHOULD HAVE BEEN UNDERTAKEN BY OWNER WITHOUT
NOTICE TO OWNER IN AN EMERGENCY (E.G. WHERE PERSONAL INJURY OR MATERIAL DAMAGE
TO PROPERTY MAY BE IMMINENT). THE OWNERS OF ANY PORTION OF THE PROPERTY SHALL
BE JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY LIABLE FOR THE COST OF ANY MAINTENANCE SO PERFORMED BY
THE VILLAGE AND SHALL PROMPTLY REIMBURSE THE VILLAGE FOR SUCH COSTS, WITH
INTEREST AT STATUTORY PRE-JUDGEMENT RATE CALCULATED FROM THE DATE OF
EXPENDITURE. UPON RECORDATION BY THE VILLAGE OF A CLAIM FOR REIMBURSEMENT, THE
VILLAGE SHALL HAVE A FORECLOSEABLE LIEN UPON THE PROPERTY TO SECURE
REIMBURSEMENT.
IN ADDITION TO OTHER REMEDIES PROVIDED FOR ABOVE, UPON OWNERS OF LOT           
FAILURE TO MAINTAIN THE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT EASEMENT AREAS (AFTER NOTICE
WHERE REQUIRED AS AFORESAID). THE VILLAGE SHALL BE ENTITLED TO ALL REMEDIES AT
LAW OR EQUITY TO ENFORCE THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING ALL REMEDIES FOR THE
ABATEMENT OF A NUISANCE, WHICH REMEDIES SHALL BE CUMULATIVE AND NOT EXCLUSIVE.
IF A JUDGMENT IS ENTERED AGAINST SUCH OWNER, SUCH OWNER SHALL PAY ALL
REASONABLE ATTORNEYS FEES AND COSTS OF THE VILLAGE. THE VILLAGE SHALL NOT BE
LIABLE TO OWNER OR ANY PARTY CLAIMING THROUGH THE OWNER, FOR ANY DAMAGE CAUSED
BY IT IN THE PERFORMANCE OF ANY MAINTENANCE UNDERTAKEN PURSUANT TO THIS
AGREEMENT, UNLESS SUCH DAMAGE IS CAUSED BY WANTON OR WILLFUL CONDUCT. FAILURE
TO ENFORCE A RIGHT GRANTED HEREUNDER SHALL NOT BE DEEMED A WAIVER OF SUCH RIGHT
OR ANY OTHER RIGHTS HEREUNDER. NO PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE FOR FAILURE TO ENFORCE
THE PROVISIONS HEREOF.
THE OWNER RESERVES UNTO ITSELF ALL RIGHTS NOT MATERIALLY INCONSISTENT WITH
THESE PROVISIONS, INCLUDING THE RIGHT TO IMPROVE THE PROPERTY AND TO GRANT
EASEMENTS AND OTHER RIGHTS AND INTERESTS IN AND TO SAID PROPERTY.
THE OWNERS OF ANY PORTION OF THE PROPERTY COMPRISING LOT            SHALL BE
JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REIMBURSEMENT OF OR PAYMENT TO THE
VILLAGE, AS MAY BE REQUIRED BY THE FOREGOING PROVISIONS. IF TITLE TO ALL OR ANY
PART OF THE PROPERTY IS VESTED IN A LAND TRUST, ANY BENEFICIARIES THEREOF SHALL
BE PERSONALLY LIABLE FOR ALL OBLIGATIONS IMPOSED HEREBY ON THE OWNER OF SUCH
PROPERTY OR PORTION THEREOF SO OWNED.
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
11-19-5: APPENDIX E; BILL OF SALE:
   BILL OF SALE
                     (Sellers) in consideration of One Dollar ($1.00) and other
good and valuable considerations in hand paid, receipt and sufficiency whereof
is hereby acknowledged, do hereby sell, assign, transfer and set over onto the
Village of Winfield, Illinois (Purchaser) the following described personal
property to wit:
All sanitary sewers, water main, storm sewer, street lights, and public streets
located in the premises commonly known as                                    ,
as specified in plans prepared by                                         .
Sellers hereby represent and warrant to the Village of Winfield that Sellers
are the Owners of said property, that said property is free and clear of all
liens, charges and encumbrances, and that Sellers have full right, power and
authority to convey said personal property and to make this Bill of Sale.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Sellers have signed and sealed this Bill of Sale at DuPage
County, Illinois this            of                , 20          .
DEVELOPER
Officer         Officer
State of Illinois    )
      )
County of DuPage    )
I, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for said County in the state
aforesaid DO HEREBY CERTIFY that the sellers named above are personally known
to me to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing Bill
of Sale appeared before me this date in person and acknowledged that they
signed, sealed and delivered the said instrument as their free and voluntary
act, for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
GIVEN under my hand and seal this            day of                 20        .
Notary Public
(Ord. 2015-02-05, 2-5-2015)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Countywide Stormwater And Floodplain Ordinance Adopted
12-1-2: Stormwater Review Fee Schedule
12-1-3: Floodway And Floodplain Map Designations Adopted
12-1-4: Oversight Committee, Right To Appeal
12-1-1: COUNTYWIDE STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
   A.   The village of Winfield hereby adopts the countywide stormwater and
floodplain ordinance OSM-001-12, effective May 14, 2019, as now existing or
hereafter amended (county ordinance). These provisions are not adopted by
reference but, rather, are adopted as a specific and integral part of the
village's stormwater and floodplain management as codified in this chapter, of
which not less than three (3) copies have been and are now filed in the office
of the village clerk, or electronically at https://www.dupageco.org/EDP/
Stormwater_Management/1165/ and the whole of said provisions as if set out in
full herein.
   B.   The village of Winfield further adopts the general certifications to
the county ordinance OSM-002-12, as now existing or hereafter amended, as an
integral part of this chapter.
   C.   The provision adopted by this section shall be in full force and effect
and shall supersede any other ordinances of the village with which they are
inconsistent or which are less stringent than the terms of this chapter. (Ord.
2012-06-16, 6-21-2012; amd. Ord. 2019-06-13, 6-6-2019; Ord. 2021-09-17, 9-16-
2021)
12-1-2: STORMWATER REVIEW FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Stormwater Review Fees: The following review fee schedule for
stormwater submittals is hereby adopted as the village review fee schedule for
stormwater submittals and said schedule shall apply to all stormwater
submittals required by the county ordinance as adopted by the village pursuant
to section
12-1-1 of this chapter and no stormwater management permit shall be issued by
the village until the required fee has been paid:
 
For construction of individual roads    $3,000.00 deposit plus 10% for handling
(outside special management areas)
Nonresidential development less than 1
acre in gross area and residential      $1,500.00 deposit plus 10% for handling
developments less than 3 acres in gross
area
Any construction (including
reconstruction) not included above on a
single parcel and/or greater than 5,000 $1,500.00 deposit plus 10% for handling
square feet disturbed residential
development
1 - 5 acres (gross area) nonresidential
development and 3 - 10 acres (gross     $3,000.00 deposit plus 10% for handling
area) residential development
5 - 10 acres (gross area)               $3,000.00 deposit plus $600.00 for all
nonresidential development and 10 - 50  acres, including the first acre or
acres (gross area) residential          fraction of an acre plus 10% for
development                             handling
Greater than 10 acres (gross area)      $6,000.00 deposit plus $600.00 for all
nonresidential development and greater  acres, including the first acre or
than 50 acres (gross area) residential  fraction of an acre plus 10% for
development                             handling
 
   B.   Obligation Of Responsible Party:
      1.   The application for a project subject to this chapter shall identify
the party responsible (hereinafter referred to as the responsible party) for
the application and any financial obligations set forth by this section,
including the name, address, daytime telephone number; relationship to the
project; and consent of the owner (if different).
      2.   It is the obligation of the responsible party filing any application
as herein described to pay all administrative, professional consulting fees and
public hearing expenses, including court reporter fees, incurred by the village
in processing and acting upon such application.
      3.   The deposit for those fees and expenses as hereinafter set forth is
intended to ensure to the village that adequate funds will be available to the
village to pay those fees and expenses, and by making the deposit the applicant
is not relieved of the obligation to pay those fees in full if in fact those
fees and expenses exceed the deposit amount that may be with the village at any
given time. The village board shall establish the amount of the deposit to
cover the above noted costs by ordinance.
      4.   The village shall invoice the responsible party for any payment
obligation as set forth above and any deposit replenishment as may be required.
      5.   In the event that the responsible party fails to satisfy their
payment obligation and/or replenish their deposit balance within sixty (60)
days of receipt of an invoice from the village, a penalty in the amount of ten
percent (10%) of the original deposit requirement shall be added to the
outstanding obligation amount for each thirty (30) day period or portion
thereof that the responsible party's obligation remains delinquent. The village
shall retain the penalty payment amount.
   C.   Agreement To Pay Village Fees In Full: Before any application for which
a deposit fee is required by this section is accepted by the village or acted
upon, the responsible party will be required to acknowledge in writing the
responsible party's obligation to pay all fees pursuant to the provisions
contained within this section. Said form of acknowledgment shall be prescribed
by the village attorney and kept on file in the office of the village clerk.
   D.   Refunds And Additional Payments: The foregoing fee schedule is based
upon an estimate of the costs and fees that will be incurred by the village in
reviewing and acting upon the applications described. Accordingly, at the time
of final action by the corporate authorities or the written request by the
applicant that further action on the application terminate, an itemization of
costs for consultants and an administrative fee in the amount of ten percent
(10%) of the consultant's fee shall be sent to the petitioner either indicating
payment in full, providing a refund to the applicant or billing the applicant
an additional amount to be paid to the village by the applicant. Before final
action on the application is taken all inspection, review and other fees
indicated by other ordinances shall remain applicable.
   E.   Additional Deposit Required: If, during the course of the review of an
application, the fees on deposit with the village reach a level of less than
fifty percent (50%) of the value of the initial deposit, the responsible party
shall pay to the village an amount that brings the deposit balance back to 100
percent (100%) of the initial deposit, and if the village provides the
applicant with an estimate in writing of the additional consultant fees that
will be incurred by the village, based upon estimates from the consultants
themselves, which shall be made available to the applicant, it is the
obligation of the applicant to pay to the village an additional deposit to
cover the cost of those additional anticipated fees plus an additional
administrative fee in the amount of ten percent (10%) of those anticipated
additional consultant fees. The village reserves the right to delay any further
action on the application until this additional deposit is paid. This
additional deposit is based upon an estimate of what those additional fees may
be and by making the additional deposit, the applicant is not relieved of his
obligation to pay those fees in full if in fact they exceed that estimate and
additional administrative fee. The provisions of subsection D of this section
with respect to a refund of any excess deposit shall then apply at the time of
final action or withdrawal as described in subsection D of this section. If the
additional payment is also exhausted prior to final action or withdrawal, then
an additional deposit shall again be required in accordance with the provisions
of this subsection. (Ord. 2006-9-41, 9-7-2006; amd. Ord. 2007-2-8, 2-15-2007,
Ord. 2020-08-21, 8-20-2020)
12-1-3: FLOODWAY AND FLOODPLAIN MAP DESIGNATIONS ADOPTED:
The DuPage County, Illinois, Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance,
codified herein as
12-1-1  and made a part hereof, includes the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
panels, as Exhibit 2: DuPage County Communities and Floodplain Map Panels,
Effective date: August 1, 2019, are hereby adopted. (Ord. 2004-10-47, 10-21-
2004; amd. Ord. 2019-06-13, 6-6-2019)
12-1-4: OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE, RIGHT TO APPEAL:
   A.   Creation: An oversight committee is hereby established to oversee the
implementation and enforcement of the village's stormwater and floodplain
regulations ordinance.
   B.   Members: The oversight committee shall consist of the then current
citizen (not elected or appointed village trustees) members of the public works
committee.
   C.   Request Of Additional Opinions: The oversight committee, when
considering appeals or variances, may request an opinion from the county
stormwater management director or the county's municipal engineers group (MEG).
   D.   Right To Appeal:
      1.   Any person directly aggrieved by any decision, order, requirement,
or determination of the administrator made pursuant to an interpretation of a
waiver ordinance shall have the right to appeal such action to the oversight
committee. The applicant shall pay a deposit of one thousand one hundred
dollars ($1,100.00) before any action on the application is taken. One hundred
dollars ($100.00) of the deposit will be applied to administrative costs, and
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) will be applied to any additional costs of the
appeal, including, but not limited to, professional fees such as the village
engineer and/or village attorney. In the event the appeal is successful, the
applicant shall be refunded the entire deposit.
      2.   Every applicant for an appeal shall notify the oversight committee
in writing of the decision being appealed, which notice shall include a short,
plain statement containing the reasons why the decision is being appealed and
how the applicant has been directly aggrieved by the action taken.
      3.   Upon receipt of such a notice of appeal, the oversight committee
shall set a date for a public hearing before the oversight committee. Such
public hearing shall commence not fewer than fourteen (14) days nor more than
sixty (60) days after the date on which a properly prepared notice of appeal
was received. The applicant shall be promptly notified of the public hearing
date.
      4.   The oversight committee shall decide the appeal within sixty (60)
days after the conclusion of the public hearing. All decisions on appeals shall
be in writing and shall include a statement of the reasons for the decision.
The failure of the oversight committee to act within sixty (60) days shall be
deemed to be a decision denying the appeal.
      5.   A party may appeal the decision of an oversight committee to the
corporate authorities by filing a notice thereof with that body within fourteen
(14) days after the date of decision by the oversight committee.
      6.   Within thirty five (35) days after receipt of a properly prepared
and filed notice of appeal, the corporate authorities, shall, without further
hearing, affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the oversight committee.
The failure of the corporate authorities to act within thirty five (35) days
shall be deemed to be a final decision of that body denying the appeal and
affirming the decision of the oversight committee. The decision of the
corporate authorities shall in all instances be considered a final decision.
   E.   Public Hearings:
      1.   When the provisions of this chapter or the waiver community
ordinance require a public hearing in connection with any application,
petition, or appeal, the oversight committee shall, upon receipt of a properly
completed application, petition, or notice, fix a reasonable time and place for
such hearing; provided, however, that such hearing shall be commenced no later
than sixty (60) days, and shall be concluded no later than one hundred twenty
(120) days, following the submission of the subject application, or petition,
unless hearing dates of the body are completely committed during that time.
      2.   All hearings shall be open to the public and shall be held before
the oversight committee.
      3.   The oversight committee shall cause notice to be given of public
hearings in the form and manner and to the persons herein specified. Such
notice shall contain a description of the subject matter to be heard or
considered at the hearing, the address or particular location of the subject
development, and the time, place, and date of the hearing. The notice shall
also contain a reference to the particular sections of the ordinance involved.
Notice of every hearing shall be given by regular U.S. mail or personal
delivery to the applicant or petitioner. Notice by mail shall be mailed no
fewer than fourteen (14) days in advance of the hearing by regular U.S. mail,
except as otherwise specifically provided in the ordinance. The oversight
committee shall publish notice of the public hearing at least once, not less
than fourteen (14) days before the date for the hearing, in a newspaper of
general circulation in the geographic area where the property that is the
subject of the hearing is located.
      4.   Any interested person may appear and testify at a public hearing,
either in person or by a duly authorized agent or attorney, and may submit
documentary evidence; provided, however, that the oversight committee may
exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence.
      5.   The applicant or petitioner, or any other party to the hearing, may
be allowed any or all of the following rights:
To present witnesses on their behalf.
To cross examine all witnesses testifying in opposition to the application,
petition, or appeal.
To examine and reproduce any documents produced at the hearing.
To a continuance, upon request, for the purpose of presenting evidence to rebut
evidence introduced by any other person. In determining whether to grant or
withhold such rights, the discretion of the oversight committee shall be
governed by the goal of securing all information and opinion relevant and
material to its deliberations. Such rights shall not be granted, however, when
undue and unwarranted delay would result or when to do so would tend to produce
no new evidence to aid the hearing body in reaching its decision.
      6.   The oversight committee may at any time, on its own motion or at the
request of any person, adjourn the hearing for a reasonable time and to a fixed
date, time, and place, for the purpose of giving further notice, taking further
evidence, gathering further information, deliberating further, or for such
other reason as the oversight committee may find sufficient. Proper notice of
such a recess shall be given to all parties to the hearing, and any other
person designated by the oversight committee.
      7.   All testimony at every hearing shall be given under oath.
      8.   All other matters pertaining to the conduct of hearings shall be
governed by the provisions of this chapter or the waiver community ordinance
pertaining to, and the rules promulgated by, the oversight committee.
      9.   The decision or recommendation of the oversight committee shall be
in writing and shall include findings of fact specifying the reasons for the
decision. The copy of the written decision shall be provided to the applicant
or petitioner and transmitted to the corporate authorities. (Ord. 2014-10-32,
10-16-2014)
CHAPTER 2
SUMPS AND SUMP PUMPS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Discharge
12-2-1: DISCHARGE:
Where a sump pump is used for the collection of drainage from foundation
footing drains such drainage shall not be discharged into the septic tank,
sanitary sewer, public road surface or within fifteen feet (15') of the
property line of the contiguous landowner. It being the intent of this section
to provide that the sump pumps may only be discharged on an owner's property or
into an underground storm sewer or open drainage ditch which underground sewer
line or open drainage ditch are part of the storm sewer system of the village.
Where it is necessary to pump laundry and toilet wastes, a separate pit and
injector pump shall be provided for such purposes exclusively, and they shall
be discharged into the sanitary sewer or septic tank. The direction of the flow
from any injector and/or sump pump shall be controlled by necessary valves on
the discharge piping. (Ord. 2010-04-08, 4-1-2010)
TITLE 13
CITATIONS
CHAPTER 1
CITATIONS; ALTERNATIVE PENALTY
SECTION:
13-1-1: Issuance And Settlement Of Citations
13-1-2: Alternative Penalty
13-1-3: Schedule Of Fines
13-1-3-1: Schedule Of Fees
13-1-4: General Penalty, Payment And Collection Authority
13-1-1: ISSUANCE AND SETTLEMENT OF CITATIONS:
   A.   Whenever a Village police officer or other designated Village official
is authorized to charge a person or arrest a person without a warrant for a
violation of any provision of this Code, that officer or official may file a
complaint for such violation in court, or, if such violation is of any of the
provisions of this Code specifically referenced in section
13-1-3 of this chapter, that officer or official may, in lieu of filing a
complaint in court, issue to the alleged violator a compliance citation which
shall:
      1.   State the specific Code provision that was violated;
      2.   Advise said person that he/she may make payment to settle said claim
in the amount applicable to said alleged violation, as set forth in section
13-1-3 of this chapter;
      3.   Advise said person, where applicable, to cease and/or abate said
violation forthwith and to refrain from like violations in the future; and
      4.   Inform said person that, upon failure to so settle the claim and to
cease and/or abate said violation, a complaint will be filed in the Circuit
Court of DuPage County charging said person with such violation.
   B.   Citations may be served as follows:
      1.   Personally upon the person responsible for the violation;
      2.   In the event that the responsible person cannot be located, the
citation may be served by sending a copy to the person by first class U.S.
mail; or
      3.   In the case of violations related to parked motor vehicles, a
citation may be affixed to the motor vehicle.
   C.   Any person served with a compliance citation may settle and compromise
the matter in respect to such Code violation by ceasing and/or abating said
violation and paying the amount shown in the fee schedule set forth in section
13-1-2 of this chapter within the period of time specified on the citation,
which period shall be not more than thirty (30) days from the date of issuance
of the citation. The settlement payment shall be made in accordance with the
instructions on the citation at the Office of the Police Department. The Police
Department shall issue a receipt for the payment so received and promptly remit
the amount to the Finance Department, which shall in turn credit it to the
proper Village fund.
   D.   In the event that the person to whom the compliance citation is issued
fails to settle and pay the violation claim within thirty (30) days of issuance
of the citation, a final notice shall be issued and sent by first class U.S.
mail to the person at the person's last known address. If payment is not made
within thirty (30) days of issuance of the final notice, then the Village
police officer or other designated Village official is authorized to cause a
new summons and complaint to be issued and served on the person as required by
law, and to file and prosecute said complaint in the Eighteenth Judicial
Circuit Court, DuPage County, Illinois. If found guilty, the party or parties
shall be subject to penalties set forth in this Code.
   E.   The issuance of a compliance citation shall be discretionary, issued as
a courtesy in lieu of instituting a formal prosecution for an alleged offense.
   F.   In addition to any agreement to cease and/or abate any violation, or to
refrain from any like violation in the future, a violation claim may be
settled, compromised and paid upon the issuance of a compliance citation, and
prior to the issuance of a final notice, by payment of the settlement fee set
forth in the schedule in section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
      1.   Statute Violations: The violations of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes, chapter 625, Illinois Vehicle Code, are adopted by reference as shown
in section
13-1-3 of this chapter and shall be subject to the alternative penalty
procedures described herein.
      2.   Violations With Respect To Title 3 - Business And License
Regulations: The violations related to title 3 of this Code as shown in section
13-1-3 of this chapter shall be subject to the alternative penalty procedures
described herein.
      3.   Violations With Respect To Title 4 - Public Health And Safety: The
violations related to title 4 of this Code as shown in section
13-1-3 of this chapter shall be subject to the alternative penalty procedures
described herein.
      4.   Violations With Respect To Title 5 - Police Regulations: The
violations related to title 5 of this Code as shown in section
13-1-3 of this chapter shall be subject to the alternative penalty procedures
described herein.
      5.   Violations Of Title 6 - Traffic Regulations: The violations related
to title 6 of this Code as shown in section
13-1-3 of this chapter shall be subject to the alternative penalty procedures
described herein.
      6.   Violations With Respect To Title 9 - Building Regulations: Sections
and their applicable subsections from the adopted International Property
Maintenance Code: The violations related to title 9 of this Code as shown in
section
13-1-3 of this chapter shall be subject to the alternative penalty procedures
described herein.
      7.   Violations With Respect To Title 10 - Zoning: The violations related
to title 10 of this Code as shown in section
13-1-3 of this chapter shall be subject to the alternative penalty procedures
described herein. (Ord. 2006-12-60, 12-7-2006; amd. Ord. 2007-3-11, 3-1-2007;
Ord. 08-5-22, 5-1-2008; Ord. 2010-07-23, 7-15-2010; Ord. 2012-08-18, 8-2-2010)
   G.   For purposes of this chapter, the settlement fees set forth in section
13-1-2 of this chapter for final notice shall govern notwithstanding any other
penalty provision established in this Code. (Ord. 2006-12-60, 12-7-2006)
13-1-2: ALTERNATIVE PENALTY:
   A.   Any person, pursuant to the issuance of a uniform complaint ticket, who
is accused of a violation of any of the Illinois Vehicle Code offenses listed
in section
13-1-3 of this chapter except a traffic offense for which a court appearance is
required pursuant to rule 551 of the Illinois Supreme Court Rules, may settle
and compromise that ticket by paying a reduced rate to the Village of Winfield
a sum of sixty dollars ($60.00) within fourteen (14) days from the date such
alleged violation was committed or by paying to the Village the sum of ninety
dollars ($90.00) subsequent to said fourteen (14) day period and prior to
thirty (30) days thereafter. (Ord. 2012-08-21, 8-2-2012)
   B.   The alternative penalty settlement procedure shall be in lieu of
instituting a prosecution in court for the alleged offense. If the person
accused of the violation does not settle the claim, the uniform traffic
complaint or complaint and notice to appear will be processed for that
violation, and that person shall be subject to the penalties which are set
forth within this Code. (Ord. 2006-12-60, 12-7-2006)
13-1-3: SCHEDULE OF FINES:
              Alternative                      Fine If Paid   $40.00
IVC Violation Traffic Nonmoving Fine If Paid   Within 15 - 30 Adjudication Fee
              IVC Violations    Within 14 Days Days           Plus Fine
                                                              Assessed
              Alternative                      Fine If Paid   $40.00
IVC Violation Traffic Nonmoving Fine If Paid   Within 15 - 30 Adjudication Fee
              IVC Violations    Within 14 Days Days           Plus Fine
                                                              Assessed
              No valid
3-401A        registration;     $60.00         $90.00
              never applied
3-413A        Improper display  60.00          90.00
              of license plates
              Expired
3-413F        registration      60.00          90.00
              plate/sticker
              Failure to notify
3-416         secretary of      60.00          90.00
              state of name/
              address change
              No valid
3-701         registration; no  60.00          90.00
              valid plate/
              sticker obtained
              Failure to
              display external
11-1419.02    Illinois motor    60.00          90.00
              fuel tax ID
              license
              Operation of
11-1507(a)    bicycle without   60.00          90.00
              lamp and
              reflector
              Operation of
12-101(a)     vehicle with      60.00          90.00
              unsafe equipment
              Operation of
12-201(a)     motorcycle        60.00          90.00
              without lighted
              headlamp
              Driving vehicles
              without 2 lighted
12-201(b)     headlamps and     60.00          90.00
              taillamps when
              required
              No white rear
12-201(c)     registration      60.00          90.00
              light
              Insufficient
              clearance,
              identification or
12-202(a)     side marker lamps 60.00          90.00
              and reflector;
              second division
              vehicle
              Failure to use
              parking lights
12-203(a)     while vehicle     60.00          90.00
              standing on
              highway
              Improper lamp or
12-204        flag on           60.00          90.00
              projecting load
              Improper use of
12-205        lamps on towing   60.00          90.00
              and towed
              vehicles
              Improper use of
12-207(a)     more than 1 spot  60.00          90.00
              lamp
              Improper use of
12-207(b)     more than 3       60.00          90.00
              auxiliary driving
              lamps
12-208(a)     No stop signal    60.00          90.00
              lamp or device
12-209(c)     Defective backup  60.00          90.00
              lights
              Failure to dim
12-210(a)     headlights within 60.00          90.00
              500 feet of
              oncoming vehicle
              Failure to dim
              headlights within
12-210(b)     300 feet of       60.00          90.00
              vehicle in same
              direction
12-211(a)     1 headlight       60.00          90.00
12-211(b)     More than 4       60.00          90.00
              headlights
              Improper use of
12-212(a)     red light visible 60.00          90.00
              from front of
              vehicle
12-301        Defective brakes  60.00          90.00
              Unlawful use of
12-401        metal studded     60.00          90.00
              tire
12-405(d)     Use of unsafe     60.00          90.00
              tires
              Operation of
12-501(a)     vehicle without   60.00          90.00
              windshield
              Operation of
12-502        vehicle without   60.00          90.00
              rear reflecting
              mirror
              Obstructed view
12-503(a)     of windshield or  60.00          90.00
              side windows
              Unlawful
              application of
12-503(a-5)   tinted film to    60.00          90.00
              windshield or
              windows adjacent
              to driver
              Obstructed view
12-503(c)     of any window     60.00          90.00
              from object
              Operation of
              vehicle without
              windshield
12-503(d)     cleaning device;  60.00          90.00
              view obstructed
              by snow, ice or
              moisture
              Obstructed view
12-503E       from defective    60.00          90.00
              windshield
              Operation of
12-601(a)     vehicle with      60.00          90.00
              defective horn
              Operation of
12-602        vehicle with      60.00          90.00
              defective/
              modified exhaust
              Operation of
12-603(b)     vehicle without 2 60.00          90.00
              front seat belts
              1965 or later
              Failure of
12-603.1      driver/front seat 60.00          90.00
              occupant(s) to
              use safety belts
              Operation of
12-604.1(a)   vehicle with TV   60.00          90.00
              receiver visible
              to driver
              Operation of tow
12-606(a)     truck without ID  60.00          90.00
              sign attached to
              each side
              Operation of tow
12-606(b)     truck without     60.00          90.00
              required
              equipment
              Operation of tow
              truck without
12-606(c)     removing roadway  60.00          90.00
              debris and
              spreading dirt/
              sand
              Operation of tow
12-606(d)     truck without     60.00          90.00
              insurance policy
              in cab
              Unlawfully
              altered
              suspension
12-607(a)     system; body      60.00          90.00
              lifted in excess
              of 3 inches from
              chassis
              Operation of
              first division
12-607.1(a)   vehicle with      60.00          90.00
              frame in excess
              of 22 inches
              aboveground
              Operation of
              second division
              vehicle with
12-607.1(b)   frame in excess   60.00          90.00
              of specified
              limits
              aboveground
              Operation of
              vehicle with GVWR
              of 9,000 pounds
12-608(a)     or less or a      60.00          90.00
              recreational
              vehicle without 2
              bumpers
              Operation of
12-610(a)     vehicle while     60.00          90.00
              wearing headset
              receiver
12-610.1      Wireless          60.00          90.00
              telephones
              Electronic
12-610.2      communication     60.00          90.00
              devices
              Operation of
              second division
12-702(a)     vehicle without   60.00          90.00
              carrying flares/
              warning devices
              Failure to use
              flares/warning
12-702(c)     devices when      60.00          90.00
              secondary
              division vehicle
              is disabled
              Operation of
              garbage truck
12-711        without audible   60.00          90.00
              backing warning
              system
              Operating a
12-808        school bus        60.00          90.00
              without a fire
              extinguisher
              Operating a
12-809        school bus        60.00          90.00
              without a first
              aid kit
              Transporting
              handicapped
12-810        passenger(s)      60.00          90.00
              without
              restraining
              device
              Operating second
              division vehicle
              without
13-111        certificate of    60.00          90.00
              valid safety test
              attached to
              windshield
              Failure to
13C-15(4)     display unexpired 60.00          90.00
              emission sticker
              Load projecting
              in excess beyond
              left fenders or 6
15-105        inches beyond     60.00          90.00
              right fenders of
              first division
              vehicle
              Failure to fasten
15-106        loose projecting  60.00          90.00
              member
              Failure to plank
              edge of pavement
15-108        for any vehicle   60.00          90.00
              in excess of
              8,000 pounds
15-109(a)     Spilling load on  60.00          90.00
              highway
              Operating loaded
              vehicle without
15-109(b)     securely          60.00          90.00
              fastening
              covering
              Operating second
              division vehicle
15-109.1      with load         60.00          90.00
              falling, blowing,
              or dropping to
              the highway
              Unlawful pushing
15-114        of disabled       60.00          90.00
              vehicle
              Operation of
              snowmobile
40/5-1D       without lighted   60.00          90.00
              headlamp or
              lighted taillamp
 
Village Code  Fine If Paid Within Fine If Paid Within 15 $40.00 Adjudication
Violation     14 Days             - 30 Days              Fee Plus Fine Assessed
Village Code                   Fine If Paid   Fine If Paid   $40.00
Violation                      Within 14 Days Within 15 - 30 Adjudication Fee
                                              Days           Plus Fine Assessed
             Parking
             Violations -
            Stopping,                                      
             Standing And
             Parking
             No SSP on roadway
             side of any
6-2-1A1a     vehicle stopped/  $ 50.00        $ 75.00         
             parked at edge/
             curb of street
6-2-1A1b     No SSP on         50.00          75.00           
             sidewalk
6-2-1A1c     No SSP within an  50.00          75.00           
             intersection
6-2-1A1d     No SSP on         50.00          75.00           
             crosswalk
             No SSP between
             safety zone and
             adjacent curb or
6-2-1A1e     within 30 feet of 50.00          75.00           
             curb immediately
             opposite end of
             safety zone
             No SSP alongside/
             opposite any
             street
6-2-1A1f     excavation/       50.00          75.00           
             obstruction if
             traffic
             obstruction would
             occur
             No SSP upon
             bridge or other
6-2-1A1g     elevated          50.00          75.00           
             structure upon
             highway or within
             highway tunnel
6-2-1A1h     No SSP on any     50.00          75.00           
             railroad tracks
             No SSP at any
             place where
6-2-1A1i     official sign     50.00          75.00           
             prohibits
             stopping
             No SSP on the
6-2-1A1j     left side of a    50.00          75.00           
             two-way street
6-2-1A1k     No parking in     250.00         250.00          
             handicap space
             No SSP in front
6-2-1A2a     of public/private 50.00          75.00           
             driveway
             No SSP within 15
6-2-1A2b     feet of fire      50.00          75.00           
             hydrant
             No SSP within 20
6-2-1A2c     feet of crosswalk 50.00          75.00           
             intersection
             No SSP within 30
             feet of any
6-2-1A2d     flashing signal,  50.00          75.00           
             stop sign,
             traffic signal at
             side of roadway
             No SSP within 20
             feet of driveway
             entrance to fire
6-2-1A2e     station or within 50.00          75.00           
             75 feet of
             entrance on
             opposite side of
             street
             No SSP at any
             place where
6-2-1A2f     official sign or  50.00          75.00           
             yellow painted
             curb prohibit
             standing
             No SSP within 50
             feet of all
             railroad crossing
6-2-1A3a     (unless loading/  50.00          75.00           
             unloading
             passengers/
             merchandise)
             No SSP at any
             place where
             official sign or
6-2-1A3b     yellow painted    50.00          75.00           
             curb prohibit
             parking (fire
             lane)
             No person shall
             move a vehicle
             not lawfully
             under his control
6-2-1B       into a prohibited 50.00          75.00           
             area or away from
             a curb such a
             distance is
             unlawful
6-2-2A       Obstructing       15.00          25.00           
             traffic flow
             Parked in alley
             obstructing flow
             (less than 10
6-2-2B       feet of alleyway  50.00          75.00           
             free) and not
             blocking driveway
             entrances
             No overnight
             parking 2:00 A.M.
             - 6:00 A.M. for
6-2-2C       longer than 30    50.00          75.00           
             minutes except -
             division 1
             vehicles
             No parking on
6-2-2D       street with width 50.00          75.00           
             less than 20 feet
             No parking on
             roadway to wash,
6-2-2E1      grease, or repair 50.00          75.00           
             vehicle (unless
             emergency)
             No parking on
             roadway to
6-2-2E2      display vehicle   50.00          75.00           
             for sale (only
             allowed on
             private driveway)
             No parking in no
             parking locations
6-2-2F       upon either side  50.00          75.00           
             of a street
             adjacent to any
             school property
             No parking on
6-2-2G       left side of one- 50.00          75.00           
             way street
             No SSP in
6-2-2H       hazardous/        50.00          75.00           
             congested areas
             No SSP at
6-2-2I       taxicab/bus       50.00          75.00           
             stands
             No parking within
6-2-2J       12 hours after 2  15.00          25.00           
             inch snowfall
             No parking in
             spaces designated
6-2-2K       for Village       50.00          75.00           
             employees/
             business
             No parking
6-2-2L       without permit    50.00          75.00           
             required
             Unlawful parking
             commercial
6-2-2M       vehicle in        50.00          75.00           
             residential
             neighborhood
             Parking
6-2-3B       prohibited at all 50.00          75.00           
             times
             Parking
6-2-3C       prohibited at     50.00          75.00           
             certain times
6-2-3D       Parked in excess  50.00          75.00           
             of posted time
             Parked parallel
6-2-4A       to curb (within   50.00          75.00           
             12 inches of
             curb)
             Parked in marked
6-2-4B2      angle parking     50.00          75.00           
             spaces
             No SSP in
             passenger loading
6-2-5C1      zones (if         50.00          75.00           
             loading/unloading
             passenger - 3
             minute limit)
             No SSP in freight
             loading/zones (if
6-2-5C2      loading/unloading 50.00          75.00           
             freight - 30
             minute limit)
             Operator of a bus
             shall not SSP bus
6-2-5D2a(1)  upon any street   50.00          75.00           
             at any place
             other than bus
             stand
             Operator of bus
             shall not unload/
6-2-5D2a(2)  load bus upon any 50.00          75.00           
             street location
             other than bus
             stop
             Operator of bus
             shall be parallel
             to and no more
6-2-5D2a(3)  than 12 inches    50.00          75.00           
             from curb when
             stopped at bus
             stop
             Operator of
             taxicab shall not
             SSP vehicle upon
6-2-5D2b     any street        50.00          75.00           
             location other
             than taxicab
             stand
             Parking
             Violations -
             Abandoned,
             Hazardous,
             Unlawful Vehicles
             No person shall   200.00         300.00          
             abandon vehicle
             within the
             Village or leave
             vehicle at any
             place for such
6-5-2        time and under    100.00         150.00          
             such
             circumstances as
             to cause vehicle
             to reasonably
             appear as
             abandoned
             No person shall
             leave partially
             dismantled/
6-5-3        nonoperating/     100.00         150.00          
             wrecked/junked
             vehicles on any
             street
             Inoperable
             vehicles, public
6-5-4        or private        100.00         150.00          
             property are
             declared to be a
             nuisance
             All persons are
             required to
             dispose of
             abandoned/
6-5-5        inoperable        100.00         150.00          
             vehicle upon
             written notice
             from Police
             Department
             Parking
             Violations -
             Enforcement,
             Violations And
             Penalties
             Improper parking
             (except
6-6-5-1A1a   subsections 6-2-  50.00          75.00
             2A and J of this
             Code)
             No fee deposited
6-2A-2       in daily metered  50.00          75.00
             lot
             Deface,
             duplicate,
6-2-6E5      fraudulent use of 150.00         200.00
             Village parking
             permit
             Transfer or
6-2-6E6      misuse of Village 100.00         150.00
             parking permit
 
             Title 3                             Fine If Paid   $40.00
Village Code Business And Warning Fine If Paid   Within 15 - 30 Adjudication
Violation    License      Period  Within 14 Days Days           Fee Plus Fine
             Violations                                         Assessed
             Title 3                   Fine If Paid Fine If Paid $40.00
Village Code Business And  Warning     Within 14    Within 15 -  Adjudication
Violation    License       Period      Days         30 Days      Fee Plus Fine
             Violations                                          Assessed
Chapter 1 - General
License And Permit
Provisions
3-1-2        License       3 days      $ 50.00      $100.00
             required
3-1-10       Posting       3 days      50.00        100.00
             license
             Nuisances
3-1-13       (business     Depends on  50.00        100.00
             creating a    nuisance
             nuisance)
             Hawkers;      Issue an
             itinerant     immediate
             merchants;    "cease and
             peddlers; and desist"
             transient     order with
3-1-14       vendors       an          50.00        100.00
             (selling      explanation
             goods other   on how to
             than listed   obtain
             on license    license
             applications)
Chapter 4 - Amusement And
Amusement Devices
             Coin operated
             amusement
             devices
             (amusements
3-4-2        and amusement            50.00        100.00
             devices;
             operating
             without a
             license)
             Game room
             operators
             license
             required;
             issuance
3-4-3        (amusements              50.00        100.00
             and amusement
             devices;
             operating
             without a
             license)
Chapter 5 - Sale Of                                
Tobacco Products
             License
             required
3-5-3        (sale of                 250.00       250.00
             tobacco
             without a
             license)
             Prohibited
             sales;
             delivery;
             warning card
3-5-6        (sales of                250.00       250.00
             tobacco to
             minor <18;
             failure to
             post warning
             sign)
             Illegal
3-5-7A       purchase/use             100.00       150.00
             of tobacco by
             minor <18
             Illegal
3-5-7B       possession of            100.00       150.00
             tobacco by
             minor <18
             Illegal sale
3-5-7D       of tobacco by            75.00        115.00
             minor <18
             Certain free
             distributions
3-5-8        prohibited               250.00       250.00
             (sale
             tobacco)
Chapter 6 - Solicitors/                            
Canvassers
3-6-4A       No solicitors            100.00       150.00
             permit
             Duty of
             solicitors/
             canvassers
             (failure to
3-6-7        leave;                   75.00        125.00
             failure to
             follow "no
             solicitor/
             canvasser"
             sign)
             Time limit
3-6-9        solicitors               75.00        125.00
             (solicitors/
             canvassers)
             Solicitation
             on highways
3-6-11       (solicitors/             75.00        125.00       Chapter 7 -
             canvassers                                          Garage Sales
             without a
             permit)
             Permit
             required
3-7-1        (having a                100.00       150.00
             garage sale
             without a
             permit)
             Terms and
             conditions of
3-7-2        permit                   100.00       150.00
             (including
             placement of
             signs)
Chapter 16 - Outdoor                               
Restaurant Seating
             License
             required
3-16-1       (operating    3 days      100.00       150.00
             without a
             license)
 
Village Code Public Health And Fine If Paid   Fine If Paid   $40.00
Violation    Safety            Within 14 Days Within 15 - 30 Adjudication Fee
                                              Days           Plus Fine Assessed
Village Code Public Health And Fine If Paid   Fine If Paid   $40.00
Violation    Safety            Within 14 Days Within 15 - 30 Adjudication Fee
                                              Days           Plus Fine Assessed
             Duty to cut weeds $100.00        $150.00
             and grass
4-1-2        Second violation  100.00         300.00
             Third violation   500.00         525.00
             Fourth violation  750.00         750.00
             Burning, bury or
4-2-1        accumulating      100.00         125.00
             garbage
             Depositing
4-2-2        garbage (in       100.00         125.00
             streets; on
             property)
             Garbage pickup
4-2-3E       before/after      100.00         125.00
             hours
             Placement of
             containers
             between 4:00 P.M.
4-2-4        the day prior to  100.00         125.00
             garbage pick up
             and 10:00 P.M.
             the day of
             garbage pick up
4-2-5        Littering         100.00         125.00
             prohibited
             Open and
4-2-6        recreational      100.00         125.00
             burning
4-2-7        Antiscavenger     100.00         125.00
             Ordinance
             Sound pollution -
4-4-1        4th or more       100.00         150.00
             offense in a
             calendar year
             Excessive,
             unnecessary or
             unusually loud
4-4-2        sound prohibited  100.00         125.00
             (includes radio,
             amplifier, horn,
             etc.)
             Regulated sound
             (i.e., use of
             construction
             equipment for
             outside use
             limited to the
             hours of 7:00
4-4-3        A.M. to 7:00      100.00         125.00
             P.M., Monday
             through Friday,
             8:00 A.M. to 7:00
             P.M., on
             Saturday, and 10:
             00 A.M. to 6:00
             P.M. on Sundays
             and holidays)
4-7-1        Truancy (minor)   25.00          35.00
4-7-2        Graffiti          100.00         150.00
4-7-3        Injuring property 75.00          100.00
4-7-4        Petty theft       100.00         150.00
4-7-5        Retail theft      150.00         225.00
4-7-6A1      Battery bodily    200.00         300.00
             harm
4-7-6A2      Battery physical  100.00         150.00
             contact
             Violation of
4-7-7        skateboards/      35.00          50.00
             bicycles
4-7-8        Trespass          100.00         150.00
4-7-9        Possession of     250.00         375.00
             cannabis
             Possession of
             synthetic
4-7-10C      cannabinoids and  300.00         350.00
             synthetic
             alternative drugs
             (possession)
             Possession of
             synthetic
4-7-10D      cannabinoids and  500.00         550.00
             synthetic
             alternative drugs
             (sale)
             Possession of
4-7-11       drug              500.00         650.00
             paraphernalia
4-7-12       Air rifles and    750.00          
             firearms
4-7-13       Slingshots        50.00           
4-7-14       Dangerous         750.00          
             missiles
             Discharging
4-7-15       firearms or       750.00          
             artillery pieces
4-7-16       Firearms to       750.00          
             minors
4-7-17       Public            100.00         150.00
             drunkenness
4-7-18       Loitering         100.00         150.00
4-7-19       Mob action        100.00         150.00
             Obstructing,
4-7-20       disobeying police 100.00         150.00
             officer
4-7-21       Fighting in       100.00         150.00
             public
             Urinating or
4-7-22       defecating in     100.00         150.00
             public
4-7-23       Careless driving  100.00         150.00
 
Village Code                   Fine If Paid   Fine If Paid   $40.00
Violation    Animal Complaints Within 14 Days Within 15 - 30 Adjudication Fee
                                              Days           Plus Fine Assessed
Village Code                   Fine If Paid   Fine If Paid   $40.00
Violation    Animal Complaints Within 14 Days Within 15 - 30 Adjudication Fee
                                              Days           Plus Fine Assessed
             Rabies
5-3-2        inoculation       $100.00        $150.00         
             required
5-3-3A       Running at large  50.00          75.00           
5-3-3B       Damage to         75.00          125.00          
             vegetation
5-3-3C       Impoundment       100.00         150.00          
             Dangerous dog may
             not leave
5-3-3D1      residence unless  100.00         150.00          
             muzzled,
             restrained on
             leash by owner
             Any dog unable to
             adhere to
             subsection 5-3-
5-3-3D2      3D1 of this Code  100.00         150.00          
             may be slain by
             PD (and delivered
             to Department of
             Public Health)
             Owner cannot give
             away/sell
             dangerous dog
5-3-3D3      unless receiving  100.00         150.00          
             party has been
             given written
             notice
             Owner of
5-3-3D4      dangerous dog     100.00         150.00          
             shall post a
             warning sign
             Unlawful to keep/
             own vicious dog
5-3-3E1      unless maintained 100.00         150.00          
             in a confinement
             structure
             Vicious dog may
             leave confinement
             for vet treatment
5-3-3E2      only when         100.00         150.00          
             muzzled/
             restrained by
             owner
             Owner cannot give
             away/sell/
             transfer/set
5-3-3E3      free/abandon any  100.00         150.00          
             vicious dog to
             any Village
             resident
             Owner of vicious
5-3-3E4      dog shall post a  100.00         150.00          
             warning sign
             Owner cannot give
             away/sell vicious
5-3-3E5      dog unless        100.00         150.00          
             receiving party
             has been given
             written notice
             Unlawful to keep
             menacing dog so
5-3-3F1      as to allow dog   100.00         150.00          
             to continue a
             menacing behavior
             If found menacing
             by PD - temporary
5-3-3F2      containment in    100.00         150.00          
             owner residence
             to alleviate
             behavior
             If found menacing
             by PD - dog shall
5-3-3F3      be restrained     100.00         150.00          
             within fenced
             area and on a
             leash/chain/lead
             Witness to dog
             bite/attack/
5-3-3G1      menacing behavior 100.00         150.00          
             shall file sworn
             affidavit with PD
             PD investigates
             affidavit of
5-3-3G2      complaint -       100.00         150.00          
             determine if dog
             is menacing/
             dangerous/vicious
             Owner of dog
             found menacing/
5-3-3G3      vicious/dangerous 100.00         150.00          
             may request a
             review of
             findings
             Unlawful to keep
             dog which
             disturbs peace
             with loud,
5-3-4        continuous,       50.00          75.00           
             annoying or
             impulsive noises
             at any time day
             or night
             Reports of dog
5-3-5A       bites maintained  100.00         150.00          
             by PD
             Unlawful to fail
5-3-5B       to report animal  50.00          75.00           
             bite
             Illegal to permit
             dog to habitually
5-3-6A       snap/growl/snarl/ 100.00         150.00          
             jump on/threaten
             persons in common
             areas
             Appearance of dog
             found dangerous/
5-3-6B       vicious/menacing  100.00         150.00          
             not wearing a
             muzzle or on a
             leash
             Dog with noise/
             odor/disease/or
             other unwholesome
5-3-6C       factors is        100.00         150.00          
             offensive/harmful
             or injurious to
             public
             Accumulation of
5-3-6D       dog feces/waste   100.00         150.00          
             in yard/premises
             Failure to remove
5-3-6E       dog feces from    50.00          75.00           
             public area
             Permitting dog to
             howl/yelp, whine/
5-3-6F       bark/make noise   50.00          75.00           
             to disturb peace
             of any person/
             neighborhood
             Maintaining more
             than 4 dogs over
5-3-6G       the age of 4      100.00         150.00          
             months (unless
             licensed kennel)
             No cats allowed
             on streets
5-3-7        without valid/    50.00          75.00           
             current license/
             tag
             Unlawful for any
             person to harbor/
5-3-9B       keep any wild     100.00         150.00          
             animal in the
             Village
5-3-12       Animal cruelty    100.00         150.00          
 
 
                          Fine If Paid   Fine If Paid   $40.00 Adjudication
       Disorderly Conduct Within 14 Days Within 15 - 30 Fee Plus Fine
                                         Days           Assessed
       Disorderly conduct
       - does an act/
       makes an
       utterance/display/
       gesture in such an
5-4-1A unreasonable/      $100.00        $150.00
       offensive manner
       as to provoke
       alarm/make or aid
       in making a breach
       of peace
       Disorderly conduct
       - assemble with 3
       or more persons
5-4-1B for unlawful       100.00         150.00
       purposes likely to
       produce a breach
       of peace
       Disorderly conduct
       - fail to obey a
       lawful order to
       disperse by a
       police officer - 1
       or more persons
5-4-1C are committing     100.00         150.00
       acts of DOC in the
       immediate vicinity
       and the public
       safety is
       imminently
       threatened
       Disorderly conduct
       - engages in any
       violent/
       tumultuous/
       offensive/
       disorderly conduct
       by threatening/
       traducing/
       quarreling/
5-4-1D challenging to     100.00         150.00
       fight/fighting/
       using obscene,
       offensive, profane
       language to the
       annoyance/
       disturbance/
       vexation of
       another in an
       effort to provoke
       a violent reaction
 
Village Code Police      Fine If Paid   Fine If Paid   $40.00
Violation    Regulations Within 14 Days Within 15 - 30 Adjudication Fee
                                        Days           Plus Fine Assessed
Village Code Police            Fine If Paid   Fine If Paid   $40.00
Violation    Regulations       Within 14 Days Within 15 - 30 Adjudication Fee
                                              Days           Plus Fine Assessed
             Curfew            $100.00        $125.00
             Loitering         50.00          75.00
             Nuisance          50.00          75.00
             abatement
             Littering         100.00         150.00
             Fireworks -
             possess, sell or  25.00          50.00
4-5-1        use
             Solicitor (permit
             required - $15.00 100.00         150.00
             fee)
             Sound pollution:  100.00         150.00
             If paid within 5  50.00          DNA
             days
             Public indecency  200.00         300.00
Chapter 2 - Civil Emergencies                 
             Violation of
5-2-5        civil emergency   75.00          75.00
             order
Chapter 7 - False Alarms                      
             False alarm                      
             response:
             Response 4 - 9 in 50.00          50.00
             a calendar year
5-7-1        Response 10 - 19
             in a calendar     100.00         100.00
             year
             Response 20 or
             more in a         250.00         250.00
             calendar year
Chapter 8 - Gambling                          
5-8-1        Gambling          500.00         500.00
6-1-3B       Overweight trucks 200.00         250.00
6-6-5-1A1f   Unnecessary noise 60.00          90.00
             by vehicle engine
             Riding on any
             part of any
6-6-6        vehicle not       60.00          90.00
             intended for
             passengers
             Unlawful
6-7-2        operation of      60.00          90.00
             recreational
             vehicle
             Careless
6-7-4        operation of      60.00          90.00
             recreational
             vehicle
             Required
6-7-5        equipment on      60.00          90.00
             recreational
             vehicle
             Water                            
             restrictions:
8-4-6        First offense     100.00         150.00
             Second offense    200.00         300.00
             Third offense     500.00         750.00
             Fourth offense    750.00          
8-4-7        Illegal use of    25.00          50.00
             hydrants
 
 Title 9 Building Fine If Paid Within Fine If Paid Within $40.00 Adjudication
 Regulations      14 Days             15 - 30 Days        Fee Plus Fine
                                                          Assessed
       Title 9 Building   Fine If Paid   Fine If Paid   $40.00 Adjudication
       Regulations        Within 14 Days Within 15 - 30 Fee Plus Fine
                                         Days           Assessed
Chapter 1 - Building Code                
       International
9-1-1A Existing Building  $100.00        $125.00
       Code
9-1-1B International      100.00         125.00
       Building Code
9-1-1C International      100.00         125.00
       Mechanical Code
       International
9-1-1D Property           100.00         125.00
       Maintenance Code
       International
9-1-1E Residential Code   100.00         125.00
       for One- and Two-
       Family Dwellings
9-1-1F National           100.00         125.00
       Electrical Code
       Illinois
       Administrative
       Code title 77;
       Public Health,
       chapter I:
9-1-1G Department of      100.00         125.00
       Public Health,
       subchapter - Water
       and Sewage, part
       890 Illinois
       Plumbing Code as
       amended
9-1-1H International Fire 100.00         125.00
       Code
       International
9-1-1I Energy             100.00         125.00
       Conservation Code
9-1-1J International Fuel 100.00         125.00
       Gas Code
Chapter 4 - House                        
Numbering
9-4-4  Failure to number  100.00         125.00
Chapter 5 - Fences                       
9-5-4  Prohibited fences  100.00         125.00
Chapter 7 - Demolition                   
9-7-2  Permit required    100.00         125.00
9-7-3  Asbestos abatement 100.00         125.00
       contractors
9-7-4  Standards          100.00         125.00
9-7-5  Public notice      100.00         125.00
Chapter 8 - Building                     
Construction Nuisances
9-8-3  Informing the      100.00         125.00
       general public
9-8-4  Materials and      100.00         125.00
       spoils storage
9-8-5  Access; fencing    100.00         125.00
9-8-6  Site management    100.00         125.00
       standards
 
 
                              Fine If Paid   Fine If Paid   $40.00 Adjudication
           Title 10 Zoning    Within 14 Days Within 15 - 30 Fee Plus Fine
                                             Days           Assessed
10-2-3     Use regulations    $100.00        $125.00
10-2-13    Home occupations   100.00         125.00
10-2-15    Tree preservation  100.00         125.00
10-2-16-5  Allowed signs,     100.00         125.00
           regulations
10-2-16-10 Exemptions from    100.00         125.00
           provisions (signs)
10-9-4     All other          100.00         125.00
           violations
 
 
  Title 11     Fine If Paid Within Fine If Paid Within $40.00 Adjudication
  Subdivisions 14 Days             15 - 30 Days        Fee Plus Fine
                                                       Assessed
  All land
 subdivisions $100.00             $125.00
  violations
 
 
  Title 12 Flood    Fine If Paid Within Fine If Paid Within $40.00 Adjudication
  Control           14 Days             15 - 30 Days        Fee Plus Fine
                                                            Assessed
 All flood control $100.00             $125.00
  violations
 
          Winfield Park Fine If Paid Within Fine If Paid Within Fine If Paid At
Violation District      14 Days             15 - 30 Days        Adjudication
          Ordinances
          Winfield Park      Fine If Paid   Fine If Paid Within Fine If Paid At
Violation District           Within 14 Days 15 - 30 Days        Adjudication
          Ordinances
PDI-7     Unlawful entry     $ 35.00        $ 50.00
          restricted areas
PDI-8     Unlawful meetings  35.00          50.00
          on park property
PDI-9     Picnicking only in 35.00          50.00
          designated areas
PDI-10    Remaining in parks 35.00          50.00
          after closing
PDII-2    Unlawful discharge 100.00         150.00
          weapon/missile
PDII-3    Disorderly conduct 100.00         150.00
          Mob action -
PDII-4    violence/unlawful  100.00         150.00
          act by 2 or more
          persons
PDII-8    Setting fires      100.00         150.00
          Possession/
PDII-12   consumption of     100.00         150.00
          intoxicating
          beverages
PDII-9    Unlawful sleeping  35.00          50.00
          Dangerous
PDII-18   instruments/or     100.00         150.00
          motor driven cars,
          planes or boats
          Unlawful
PDII-19   excavation or      100.00         150.00
          removal
PDII-22   Fireworks -        100.00         150.00
          discharge
PDIII-1   Motor vehicles/    50.00          75.00
          cycles prohibited
PDIII-2   Snowmobiles/ATVs   50.00          75.00
          prohibited
PDIII-4   Horses prohibited  35.00          50.00
          in certain areas
PDIII-5   Skateboards/       35.00          50.00
          rollerblades
PDIII-6   Parking prohibited 50.00          75.00
          in certain areas
PDIII-7   Handicapped        250.00         250.00
          parking
          No parking after
PDIII-8   closing 10:00 P.M. 35.00          50.00
          - 6:00 A.M.
PDIII-10  Reckless/negligent 100.00         150.00
          driving
 
(Ord. 2012-08-18, 8-2-2012; amd. Ord. 2014-02-04, 2-20-2014; Ord. 2014-08-29,
8-21-2014; Ord. 2015-05-13, 5-7-2015; Ord. 2015-05-14, 5-7-2015; Ord. 2016-12-
28, 12-1-2016; Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-16-2017; per correspondence dated 7-31-2018;
Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
13-1-3-1: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
   BUSINESS LICENSE AND REGISTRATION FEE SCHEDULE
 Square Footage License Fee
                                                Square Footage    License Fee
Except as provided below, all retail and        0 to 1,000        $ 50.00
wholesale commercial facilities, sales          1,001 to 2,000    100.00
facilities, service businesses, manufacturing   2,001 to 4,000    150.00
facilities, and all other businesses shall pay  4,001 to 10,000   200.00
the following annual license fee based on the   10,001 to 25,000  250.00
square footage of the premises as determined by 25,001 to 50,000  300.00
the Village's community development staff or    50,001 to 100,000 350.00
through other reasonable means:                 Over 100,000      500.00
 
   Registration Fee License Fee
                                 Registration Fee License Fee
Accountant office                $25.00            
Advertising bench                                $ 50.00
Amusements:                                       
 Billiard, pool, snooker or                     25.00
  similar, per table
 Bowling alley, per lane                        25.00
 Carnival, per day                              200.00
 Coin operated games of chance,                 65.00
  per machine
 Golf course                                    200.00
 Miniature golf                                 150.00
 Skating rink                                   300.00
 Theater and playhouse:                          
  Up to 250 seats                              500.00
  Over 250 seats                               750.00
Animal hospitals/veterinarian    25.00             
office
Appraisal firm                   25.00             
Auctioneer                       25.00             
Auctioneer - transient, 1 - 3    10.00             
days
Automobile service stations                      150.00
Automobile towing business                       200.00
Barber/beauty shop               25.00             
Bondsman                                         125.00
Car wash                                         200.00
Chiropractor office              25.00             
Convenience store                                150.00
Daycare                          20.00             
Dentist office                   25.00             
Doctor's office                  20.00             
Engineer's office                25.00             
Game room operator                               1,000.00
Home inspection                  25.00             
Home occupations                                 50.00
House mover                                      50.00
Ice cream truck                                  75.00
Itinerant merchant                               75.00
Kennel, commercial or            25.00             
noncommercial
Laundries                                        $50.00 plus $2.50 per machine
Locksmith                        25.00             
Motel/hotel                                      $50.00 plus $10.00 per room
Outdoor restaurant seating
license (in addition to the                      $ 25.00
normal business license)
Pawnbroker                                       1,000.00
Pharmacy                         25.00             
Physical/occupational therapy    25.00             
office
Posting bail or bond                             50.00
Real estate office               25.00             
Restaurants/food service/                         
cafeteria:
 1 - 50 seats                                   100.00
 51 - 100 seats                                 120.00
 101+ seats                                     180.00
 Carryout                                       100.00
Scavengers/waste haulers                         200.00
Solicitor                        50.00             
Tattoo establishment                             50.00
Taxi business, per car                           50.00
Tobacco products                                 150.00
  Fee for replacement or
 additional tobacco products    15.00             
  warning cards
Vending machine, per machine                     10.00
Other business or profession
subject to State of Illinois     25.00             
regulation but not listed here
 
Building Code fees are as provided in section
9-1-4, "Fee Schedule", of this Code. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
13-1-4: GENERAL PENALTY, PAYMENT AND COLLECTION AUTHORITY:
   A.   Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this
Code, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for any offense; a separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   In the event a fine or penalty is assessed pursuant to subsection A of
this section or any other provision in this Code, a default in the payment of a
fine or penalty or any installment of a fine or penalty may be collected by any
means authorized for the collection of monetary judgments. The Village Board or
its designees may retain private collection agents for the purpose of
collecting any default in payment of any fine or penalty or installment of that
fine or penalty. Any fees or costs incurred by the Village with respect to the
Village Attorney's fees and/or private collection agents retained by the
Village Board or its designees or other authorized personnel shall be charged
to the offender. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
TITLE 14
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
CHAPTER 1
CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
14-1-1: Department Established
14-1-2: Appointments
14-1-3: Compensation
14-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is hereby established a code hearing department, the function of
which is to expedite the adjudication of code and ordinance violations in the
manner set out in state statutes and in this title.
   B.   The adoption of this title does not preclude the village from using
other lawful methods to enforce the provisions of its codes and ordinances.
(Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
14-1-2: APPOINTMENTS:
The village manager is hereby authorized to appoint persons to hold the hearing
officer and other positions set forth in chapters 2, 3 and 4 of this title and
such other positions as may be necessary or desirable for the efficient
operation of the code hearing department. One person may hold and fulfill the
requirements of one or more of said positions. Hearing officers shall meet the
requirements of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-4(c) and shall have
successfully completed a formal training program which includes the following:
   A.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
which he/she will conduct;
   B.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations he/she will
adjudicate;
   C.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
   D.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence and
issuing final orders.
In addition, every hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to practice law
in the state of Illinois for at least three (3) years. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-
2010)
14-1-3: COMPENSATION:
Compensation to be paid for the positions established within this title shall
be as determined by the village board. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICULAR STANDING, PARKING AND COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
14-2-1: Purpose
14-2-2: Definitions
14-2-3: Administration
14-2-4: Procedures
14-2-5: Final Notice
14-2-6: Notice Of Final Determination
14-2-7: Final Determination Of Liability
14-2-8: Petition To Set Aside Determination Of Liability
14-2-9: Nonresident Procedures
14-2-10: Fines/Penalties
14-2-11: Certified Report And Contesting Certified Report
14-2-12: Enforcement Of Judgment
14-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a means for fair and efficient
enforcement of village vehicular standing, parking, and condition of vehicle
regulation violation(s) and other village regulation violation(s) as may be
allowed by law, through an administrative adjudication of such violation(s)
within the geographic boundaries of the village and a schedule of uniform fines
and penalties and authority and procedures for collection of unpaid fines and
penalties pursuant to section 5/11-208.3 of the motor vehicle code 1 . (Ord.
2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3.
14-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words or phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
COMPLIANCE VIOLATION: A violation of a village regulation governing the
condition or use of equipment on a vehicle or governing the display of a
municipal vehicle tax license.
NONMOVING TRAFFIC VIOLATION: A. A violation of any vehicular standing or
parking ordinance or regulation of the village; or
   B.   A compliance violation. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
14-2-3: ADMINISTRATION:
The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violations shall provide for a traffic compliance
administrator with the power, authority and limitations as are hereinafter set
forth to:
   A.   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
vehicular standing, parking and compliance regulation violation(s).
   B.   Adopt, distribute and process standing, parking, and compliance
violation notices and other notices as may be required under this chapter or as
may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of this title.
   C.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violation(s) liability.
   D.   Certify copies of final determination(s) of standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation(s) liability and factual report(s) verifying
that the final determination of standing, parking, and compliance regulation
violation(s) liability issued in accordance with this chapter and with 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3.
   E.   Certify reports to the secretary of state concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, as hereinafter set forth, and those of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-208.3.
   F.   Review final determination(s) of vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation(s) liability and validity of notices of
impending driver's license suspension in an administrative review capacity in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, as hereinafter set forth.
   G.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created.
   H.   Collect unpaid fines and penalties by directing the village attorney to
file complaints in the circuit court seeking judgments for unpaid fines or
penalties and pursuit of all postjudgment remedies available by law. (Ord.
2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
The parking citation mediation request form and parking citation mediation
information sheet are on file with the police department. (Ord. 2012-08-27, 8-
2-2012)
14-2-4: PROCEDURES:
The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violations shall be in accordance with the following
procedures. Final determinations of vehicular standing, parking, and compliance
regulation violation(s) liability, validity of notice of impending impoundment,
validity of notice of impending driver's license suspension, and collections
shall be made only in accordance with the provisions set forth below:
   A.   Nonmoving Traffic Violation Notice: Vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violations notice(s) ("nonmoving traffic violation notice
[s]") shall be issued by the person(s) authorized herein and shall contain
information and shall be served, certified and have evidentiary admissibility
as is hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Authorization: All full time, part time, and auxiliary police and
community service officers, as well as other specifically appointed
individuals, shall have the authority to issue nonmoving traffic violation
notices.
   C.   Detection Of Nonmoving Traffic Violations: Any individual authorized
herein to issue violation notices and who detects a nonmoving traffic violation
of any section of any applicable village ordinance, shall issue a notice of
nonmoving traffic violation thereof and shall make service thereof as
hereinafter set forth.
   D.   Contents Of Nonmoving Traffic Violation Notice: The nonmoving traffic
violation notice shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the following
information:
      1.   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance).
      2.   The particular vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violated.
      3.   Either the vehicle make and state registration number or the license
number of the vehicle.
      4.   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payment
prior to the hearing date.
      5.   The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice.
      6.   A section entitled "request for hearing" which shall clearly set
forth that the registered owner or lessee may request, within ten (10) days of
the date of the violation notice issuance, and may appear at the initial
administrative hearing to contest the validity of the violation notice on the
date and at the time and place as specified in the violation notice by:
         a.   A telephone request for a hearing made during normal business
hours to the office of the traffic compliance administrator; or
         b.   An e-mail request for a hearing made to the office of the traffic
compliance administrator by e-mail; or
         c.   An in person request for a hearing made during normal business
hours at the office of the traffic compliance administrator at 27W465 Jewell
Road, Winfield, IL 60190.
      7.   That payment of the indicated fine and any late payment penalty
shall operate as a final disposition of the violation.
   E.   Service: Service of violation(s) notice(s) shall be made by the person
issuing such notice by:
      1.   Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully
standing or parked or noncomplying vehicle, or
      2.   Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee to
the vehicle, if present.
   F.   Certification: The correctness of facts contained in the vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation notice(s) shall be
certified by the person issuing said notice by:
      1.   Signing his/her name to the notice(s) at the time of service, or
      2.   In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by signing a
single certificate, to be kept by the traffic compliance administrator,
attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the device while under
his/her control.
   G.   Record Of Notice: The original or a facsimile of the violations notice
(s) shall be retained by the traffic compliance administrator and kept as a
record in the ordinary course of business.
   H.   Prima Facie Evidence Of Correctness: Any violations notice(s) issued,
signed and served in accordance herewith, or a copy of the notice, shall be
prima facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the
facts shown on the notice.
   I.   Admissibility: The violations notice(s) or a copy(ies) shall be
admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal proceeding.
   J.   Administrative Hearing: Upon receipt of a request for a hearing, the
traffic compliance administrator shall schedule a date for the hearing and
shall provide written notice of the hearing date to the registered owner or
lessee of the vehicle who has requested the hearing.
   K.   Nonresident Owner: A nonresident registered owner or lessee may appear
at the initial administrative hearing to contest the validity of the violation
notice without personally appearing by following the procedures set forth in
section
14-2-9 of this chapter.
   L.   Failure To Request Hearing; Pay Fines: If the registered owner or
lessee of the vehicle either fails to request a hearing or fails to pay the
fine, the traffic compliance administrator shall send a final parking/code
violation notice to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle as provided
in section
14-2-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
14-2-5: FINAL NOTICE:
Upon the failure of the registered owner or lessee of the "cited vehicle" to
request a hearing as set forth in the vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violations notice(s), or pay the fine, a final notice:
   A.   Shall be sent to the registered owner or lessee of the "cited vehicle"
at the address as is recorded with the secretary of state.
   B.   Shall be sent to the lessee of the "cited vehicle" at the address last
known to the lessor of the "cited vehicle" at the time of the lease.
   C.   Shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid.
   D.   Service of the final notice sent in accordance herewith shall be
complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail.
   E.   The final notice sent in accordance herewith shall contain, but not be
limited to, the following information:
      1.   Date and location of violation cited in the vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violations notice(s).
      2.   Particular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violated.
      3.   Vehicle make and state registration or license number.
      4.   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
      5.   Notice to the registered owner or lessee of their current status,
other than paid in full.
      6.   Date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits.
      7.   Statement that failure to either pay fine and any applicable penalty
or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at the time
and place specified will result in a final determination of vehicle standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violations liability for the "cited"
violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated, which final
determination shall constitute a debt due and owing the village. (Ord. 2010-05-
12, 5-6-2010)
14-2-6: NOTICE OF FINAL DETERMINATION:
   A.   A notice of final determination of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violations liability shall be sent following an
appearance by the violator and a determination of liability, or the failure to
appear by the violator by the final hearing date upon conclusion of any review,
as is hereinafter set forth, and the notice shall contain, but not be limited
to, the following information and warnings:
      1.   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a debt
due and owing the village.
      2.   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and owing
the village within the time specified may result in the village's use of a
collection agency or the village's filing a complaint in the circuit court to
have the unpaid fine or penalty rendered a judgment in accordance with 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3(f), incorporated herein by reference.
      3.   A warning that the person's driver's license may be suspended for
failure to pay fines or penalties for ten (10) or more vehicular standing or
parking violations under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3,
incorporated herein by reference.
   B.   A notice of impending suspension of a person's driver's license shall
also be sent to any person determined to be liable for the payment of any fine
or penalty that remains due and owing on ten (10) or more vehicular standing or
parking regulation violations:
      1.   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine or penalty
owing within forty five (45) days of the date of the notice will result in the
village's notifying the secretary of state that the person is eligible for
initiation of suspension proceedings under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
208.3 incorporated herein by reference and section
14-2-11 of this chapter.
      2.   The notice shall also state that the person may obtain a photostatic
copy of an original ticket imposing a fine or penalty by sending a self-
addressed, stamped envelope to the municipality along with a request for the
photostatic copy.
      3.   The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the secretary
of state. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
14-2-7: FINAL DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
A final determination of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violations liability shall:
   A.   Occur following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty
after the hearing officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation(s) liability and the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust the administrative petition procedure set forth in section
14-2-8 of this chapter, or
   B.   Where a person fails to appear at a prior hearing or by the final
administrative hearing provided to contest the alleged violations on the date
and at the time and place specified in a prior served or mailed notice, the
hearing officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance
regulation violation(s) liability shall become final:
      1.   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination, or
      2.   Upon the expiration of the period for filing petition without a
filing having been made. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
14-2-8: PETITION TO SET ASIDE DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
A petition to set aside a determination of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violations liability may be filed by a person owing an
unpaid fine or penalty in the manner and subject to the restrictions and
grounds hereinafter set forth:
   A.   A written petition to set aside a determination of liability must be
filed in the office of the traffic compliance administrator within, but not
later than, fourteen (14) days from the date the final determination of
liability is made.
   B.   The traffic compliance administrator shall act upon the petitions
timely filed and render a decision thereon within fourteen (14) days of the
date filed.
   C.   The grounds for setting aside a final determination of liability shall
be limited to the following:
      1.   The person against whom the determination of liability is made was
not the owner or lessee of the "cited vehicle" on the date the vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violations notice(s) was issued.
      2.   The person's having already paid the fine or penalty for the
violations in question.
      3.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
   D.   Should the final determination of liability be set aside, the traffic
compliance administrator shall:
      1.   Notify the final registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be,
that the determination of liability has been set aside.
      2.   Notify the registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be, of a
date, time and place, for a hearing on the merits of the violation for which
final determination of liability has been set aside, as appropriate.
      3.   Notice of setting aside of the final determination of liability and
the notice of the hearing date shall be by first class mail, postage prepaid,
to the address set forth on the petition to set aside the final determination
of liability.
      4.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice(s)
are deposited in the United States mail. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
14-2-9: NONRESIDENT PROCEDURES:
Nonresidents of the village who have been served vehicular standing, parking,
or compliance regulation violations notice(s) or code or ordinance violation
notices in accordance with this chapter may contest the alleged violation on
its merits, as could a resident pursuant to section
14-2-4 of this chapter, or may contest the validity without personally
appearing at an administrative hearing by: (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
   A.   Requesting a "nonresident request for hearing" form (on file with the
police department) from the traffic compliance administrator within ten (10)
days of the date of the violation notice issuance by: (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-
2010; amd. Ord. 2012-08-27, 8-2-2012)
      1.   A telephone request for a hearing form made during normal business
hours to the office of the traffic compliance administrator; or
      2.   An e-mail request for a hearing form made to the office of the
traffic compliance administrator by e-mail; or
      3.   An in person request for a hearing form made during normal business
hours at the office of the traffic compliance administrator at 27W465 Jewell
Road, Winfield, IL 60190. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
   B.   Filing a completed "nonresident request for hearing" form (on file with
the police department) and a notarized statement of facts specifying the
grounds for challenging the violation notice or citation which must be filed
with the traffic compliance administrator and postmarked within ten (10) days
of the date of issuance of the nonresident request for hearing form. The
request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the code hearing department.
(Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010; amd. Ord. 2012-08-27, 8-2-2012)
   C.   The hearing officer shall make an adjudication based upon the facts set
forth in the notarized statement of facts filed by the nonresident and the
facts as contained in the violation notice or citation.
   D.   Notice of the determination of the hearing officer shall be served upon
the nonresident by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
nonresident at the address set forth in the statement of facts submitted.
   E.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice is
placed in the United States mail.
   F.   All other provisions of this chapter shall apply equally to
nonresidents of the village. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
14-2-10: FINES/PENALTIES:
The fines and penalties which shall be imposed for the violation of vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violations shall be as set forth in
the codes and ordinances of the village. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
14-2-11: CERTIFIED REPORT AND CONTESTING CERTIFIED REPORT:
   A.   Upon a failure to pay fines and penalties deemed due and owing the
village after the exhaustion of administrative procedures set forth herein for
ten (10) or more vehicular parking regulation violations, the traffic
compliance administrator shall make a certified report to the secretary of
state in the manner provided by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5
stating that the owner of a registered vehicle has failed to pay any fine or
penalty due and owing the village as a result of ten (10) or more violations of
village's vehicular standing or parking regulations and thereby cause the
suspension of the driver's license of that person.
   B.   The traffic compliance administrator shall take no further action
unless and until the fines and penalties due and owing the village are paid or
upon determination that the inclusion of the person's name on the certified
report was in error. In such event, the traffic compliance administrator shall
submit to the secretary of state a notification which shall result in the
halting of a driver's license suspension proceedings. The person named therein
shall receive a certified copy of such notification upon request and at no
charge.
   C.   Persons may challenge the accuracy of the certified report by
completing a form provided by the office of the traffic compliance
administrator. The form shall specify the grounds on which such challenge is
based. Grounds for challenge shall be limited to the following:
      1.   The person was neither the owner nor the lessee of the vehicle so
receiving ten (10) or more violation notices on the date or dates such notices
were issued; or
      2.   The person has paid the fine and/or penalty for the ten (10) or more
violations indicated on the certified report.
   D.   The traffic compliance administrator shall render a determination
within fourteen (14) business days of receipt of the objection form and shall
notify the objector of the determination. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
14-2-12: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:
   A.   Any fine, penalty, or part of any fine or any penalty remaining unpaid
after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, administrative remedies
under this chapter and the conclusion of any judicial review procedures shall
be a debt due and owing the village and, as such, may be collected in
accordance with applicable law. Payment in full of any fine or penalty
resulting from a standing, parking, or compliance violation shall constitute a
final disposition of that violation.
   B.   After expiration of the period within which a petition for judicial
review under section
14-5-4 of this title may be sought for a final determination of the parking,
standing or compliance violation, the village may commence a proceeding in the
circuit court for purposes of obtaining a judgment on the final determination
of violation. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the village from
consolidating multiple final determinations of parking, standing, or compliance
violation against a person in a proceeding. Upon commencement of the action,
the village shall file a certified copy of the final determination of parking,
standing, or compliance violation, which shall be accompanied by a
certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the final
determination of violation was issued in accordance with this chapter and
applicable state law. Service of the summons and a copy of the petition may be
by any method provided by section 2-203 of the code of civil procedure or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, provided that the total amount of
fines and penalties for final determination of parking, standing or compliance
violations does not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). (Ord.
2010-05-12, 5-6-2010)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING AND HOUSING VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
14-3-1: Purpose
14-3-2: Definitions
14-3-3: Procedures
14-3-4: Default
14-3-5: Evidence At Hearing
14-3-6: Retaliatory Action Against Occupants Prohibited
14-3-7: Defenses To Code Violations
14-3-8: Decision
14-3-9: Fines And Sanctions
14-3-10: Enforcement Of Judgment
14-3-11: Sanctions Applicable To Owner, Property
14-3-12: Federal Government Contracts (Maintenance Of Property) Penalties
14-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a means for fair and efficient
enforcement of construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention,
sanitation and other health and safety code violations as may be allowed by
law, through an administrative adjudication of violation(s) of village
ordinances within the geographic boundaries of the village and a schedule of
uniform fines and penalties and authority and procedures for collection of
unpaid fines and penalties. The village hereby adopts division 31.1 of article
11 of the Illinois municipal code 1 . (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-31.1-1 et seq.
14-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words or phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
BUILDING INSPECTOR: A village employee whose duties include the inspection or
examination of structures or property in the village to determine if code
violations exist.
BUILDING OWNER: The legal or beneficial owner of a structure.
CODE: Any village ordinance, law, housing, building code or other ordinance
that establishes construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention,
sanitation or other health and safety standards that are applicable to
structures within the village, including without limitation titles 3, 4 and 9
of this code. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-3-3: PROCEDURES:
The system of administrative adjudication of code violations shall be in
accordance with the following procedures, and final determinations of code
violation(s) liability shall be made only in accordance with the provisions set
forth below.
   A.   Detection Of Violations: When a building inspector finds a code
violation while inspecting a property, he/she shall note the violation on a
multiple copy violation notice and report form.
   B.   Contents Of Violation Notice And Report Form: The violation notice and
report form shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the following
information:
      1.   The name and address of the building owner.
      2.   The type and nature of the violation.
      3.   The date and time the violation was observed.
      4.   The names of witnesses to the violation.
      5.   The address of the structure where the violation is observed.
   C.   Docket And Assignment Of Hearing Date: The violation report form shall
be forwarded by the building inspector to the code hearing department where a
docket number shall be stamped on all copies of the report and a hearing date
noted in the blank spaces provided for that purpose on the form.
   D.   Service: One copy of the report form shall be served by first class
mail or in person on the building owner along with a summons commanding the
building owner to appear at the hearing. If the name of the building owner of
the structure cannot be ascertained or if service on the building owner cannot
be made by mail, service may be made on the building owner by posting or
nailing a copy of the violation report form on the front door of the structure
where the violation is found, not less than twenty (20) days before the hearing
is scheduled.
   E.   Record: One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in
the files of the code hearing department and shall be part of the record of
hearing and one copy of the report form shall be returned to the building
inspector so that he/she may prepare evidence of the code violation for
presentation at the hearing.
   F.   Administrative Hearing:
      1.   An administrative hearing to adjudicate the alleged code violation
on its merits shall be granted to the owner of record pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-10 et seq., incorporated by reference herein, and
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The case for the village may be presented by the building inspector
or by an attorney designated by the village. However, in no event shall the
case for the village be presented by an employee of the code hearing
department. The case for the building owner may be presented by the owner, his
attorney, or any other authorized agent or representative.
      3.   No continuances shall be authorized by the hearing officer in
proceedings under this chapter except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the owner. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for continuance. Any continuance authorized by a hearing
officer under this chapter shall not exceed twenty five (25) days. (Ord. 2012-
08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-3-4: DEFAULT:
If on the date set for hearing the building owner or his attorney fails to
appear, the hearing officer may find the building owner in default and shall
proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a
code violation. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-3-5: EVIDENCE AT HEARING:
At the hearing, the hearing officer shall preside and shall hear testimony and
accept any evidence relevant to the existence or nonexistence of a code
violation relating to the structure indicated. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-3-6: RETALIATORY ACTION AGAINST OCCUPANTS PROHIBITED:
No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer or
other similar proceeding shall be threatened or instituted against an occupant
of a dwelling solely because such occupant agrees to testify or testifies at an
administrative hearing. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-3-7: DEFENSES TO CODE VIOLATIONS:
It shall be an owner's defense to a code violation charge under this chapter if
the building owner, his attorney, or any other authorized agent or
representative proves to the hearing officer's satisfaction that:
   A.   The code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact exist;
   B.   The code violation has been caused by the current property occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the building owner to maintain the
dwelling free of such violations, the current occupants continue to cause the
violations; or
   C.   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the
building owner or his agent to all or a part of the dwelling for the purpose of
correcting the code violation. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-3-8: DECISION:
At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination on the basis of evidence presented at the hearing whether or not
a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall be
designated as findings, decision and order. The findings, decision and order
shall include the hearing officer's findings of fact, a decision whether or not
a code violation exists based upon the findings of fact, and an order imposing
a penalty or dismissing the case in the event a violation is not proved.
A copy of the findings, decision, and order of the hearing officer shall be
served on the person charged with a violation and the building owner within
five (5) days after they are issued. Service shall be in the same manner as the
report form and summons are served pursuant to subsection 14-3-3D of this
chapter. Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of fine money shall
be in the same manner as set forth in this code unless the corporate
authorities provide otherwise. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-3-9: FINES AND SANCTIONS:
If a code violation is proved, the hearing officer may impose the sanctions
that are provided in the code for the violation proved, including fines,
license revocation or suspension, permit suspension or revocation, etc. The
village adopts by reference all current and future local ordinances and those
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-10, governing codes, as
herein defined, applicable to structures relative to construction, plumbing,
heating, electrical, fire prevention, sanitation and health and safety
standards in the village, for its enforcement and adjudication within the
geographical boundaries of the village. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-3-10: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:
   A.   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the administrative review
law 1  shall be a debt due and owing the village and, as such may be collected
in accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the
administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of the code
violation, the village may commence a proceeding in the circuit court for
purposes of obtaining a judgment on the hearing officer's findings, decision
and order. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the village from consolidating
multiple findings, decisions and orders against a person in such a proceeding.
Upon commencement of the action, the village shall file a certified copy of the
findings, decision and order, which shall be accompanied by a certification
that recites facts sufficient to show that the findings, decision and order
were issued in accordance with this chapter and applicable state law. Service
of the summons and a copy of the petition may be by any method provided by
section 2-203 of the code of civil procedure or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, provided that the total amounts of fines, other sanctions
and costs imposed by the findings, decision and order does not exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). If the court is satisfied that the
findings, decision and order were entered in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter and the applicable village ordinance, and that the building
owner had an opportunity for a hearing under this chapter and for judicial
review as provided in this chapter:
      1.   The court shall render judgment in favor of the village and against
the building owner for the amount indicated in the findings, decision and
order, plus costs. Such judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced
in the same manner as other judgments for the recovery of money; and
      2.   The court may also issue such other orders and injunctions as are
requested by the municipality to enforce the order of the hearing officer to
correct a code violation. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
14-3-11: SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO OWNER, PROPERTY:
The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by the village
as the result of finding of a code violation under this chapter shall attach to
the property as well as to the owner of the property, so that a finding of a
code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring
the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner of property
takes subject to the findings, decision and order of the hearing officer under
this chapter. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-3-12: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS (MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY) PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who contracts with the federal government or any of its
agencies, including, without limitation, the department of housing and urban
development, to care for vacant residential real estate shall be responsible
for maintaining the property to prevent and correct municipal health and safety
code violations.
   B.   A person who intentionally violates this section is guilty of a
business offense and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 2012-08-30,
8-2-2012)
CHAPTER 4
ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
14-4-1: Procedures
14-4-2: Purpose
14-4-3: Definitions
14-4-4: Default
14-4-5: Evidence At Hearing
14-4-6: Decision
14-4-7: Enforcement Of Judgment
14-4-1: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Issuance Of Citation: When a village enforcement officer determines
that an ordinance violation has been committed, the enforcement officer shall
issue a citation.
   B.   Contents Of Citation: The citation shall include notice of:
      1.   The nature of the ordinance violation to be adjudicated.
      2.   The date and location of the adjudicatory hearing.
      3.   A citation to the chapter as the legal authority and jurisdiction
under which the hearing is to be held.
      4.   The penalties for failure to appear at the hearing.
   C.   Docket And Notation Of Hearing Date: One copy of the citation shall be
forwarded by the village enforcement official to the code hearing department
where a docket number shall be stamped on the citation and the hearing date on
the citation shall be noted and docketed.
   D.   Service: The citation shall be deemed as service of process when
either: 1) served on the party or its employee or agent; 2) served by certified
mail, return receipt requested; or 3) served by posting a notice and the
citation upon the property where the violation is found when the party is the
owner or manager of the property.
   E.   Record: One copy of the citation shall be maintained in the files of
the code hearing department and shall be part of the record of hearing and one
copy of the citation shall be returned to the village enforcement official so
that he/she may prepare evidence of the code violation for presentation at the
hearing,
   F.   Administrative Hearing:
      1.   An administrative hearing to adjudicate the alleged ordinance
violation on its merits shall be granted to the owner of record pursuant to 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., incorporated by reference herein,
and shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
hearing date shall not be less than fifteen (15) days after service of process
as provided in subsection D of this section except in case of emergency. If
service is provided by mail, the fifteen (15) day period shall begin to run on
the day that the notice is deposited in the mail.
      2.   No continuances shall be authorized by the hearing officer in
proceedings under this chapter except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the owner. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance authorized by a hearing
officer under this chapter shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
      3.   The case for the village may be presented by the village enforcement
officer or by an attorney designated by the village. However, in no event shall
the case for the village be presented by an employee of the code hearing
department. The case for the party charged maybe presented by the party
charged, his attorney, or any other authorized agent or representative. (Ord.
2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a means for fair and efficient
enforcement of any ordinance violation as defined within this chapter through
an administrative adjudication of such violation(s) and procedures for
collection of unpaid fines and penalties. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words or phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
CODE HEARING UNIT: The code hearing department established pursuant to chapter
1 of this title.
ORDINANCE VIOLATION: The violation of any code or ordinance of the village,
excepting only such codes or ordinances: a) for which administrative
adjudication is otherwise provided in this code or b) for which other
adjudicatory procedures are specifically mandated either by village ordinance
or by state or federal law. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-4-4: DEFAULT:
If on the date set for hearing the party charged with the ordinance violation
or his attorney fails to appear, the hearing officer may find the party in
default and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the
existence of an ordinance violation. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-4-5: EVIDENCE AT HEARING:
At the hearing, the hearing officer shall preside and shall hear testimony and
accept any evidence relevant to the existence or nonexistence of an ordinance
violation. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-4-6: DECISION:
At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination on the basis of evidence presented at the hearing whether or not
an ordinance violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall
be designated as findings, decision and order. The findings, decision and order
shall include the hearing officer's findings of fact, a decision whether or not
an ordinance violation exists based upon the findings of fact, and an order
imposing a penalty or dismissing the case in the event a violation is not
proved.
A copy of the findings, decision, and order of the hearing officer shall be
served on the party within five (5) days after they are issued. Service shall
be in the same manner as the citation is served pursuant to subsection 14-4-1D
of this chapter. Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of fine
money shall be in the same manner as set forth in the ordinance for which the
ordinance violation was issued. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-4-7: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:
   A.   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the administrative review
law 1  shall be a debt due and owing the village and, as such may be collected
in accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the
administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of the
ordinance violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering said defendant to correct an ordinance violation or imposing any fine
or other sanction as a result of an ordinance violation, any expenses incurred
by the village to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney
fees, court costs and lien foreclosure costs, after they are fixed by a court
of competent jurisdiction or by the hearing officer, shall be a debt due and
owing the village and may be collected in accordance with applicable law. Prior
to any expenses being fixed by the hearing officer pursuant to this section,
the village shall provide notice to the defendant that states that the
defendant shall appear at a hearing before the hearing officer to determine
whether the defendant has failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall
set the date for such a hearing, which shall not be less than seven (7) days
from the date that notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the seven (7)
day period shall begin to run on the date that the notice was deposited in the
mail.
   D.   In addition to any other legal remedies, upon being recorded in the
manner required by article XII of the code of civil procedure or the uniform
commercial code, a lien shall be imposed on the real estate or personal estate,
or both, of the defendant in the amount of any debt due and owing the village
under this section. The lien may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment
lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   E.   The hearing officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and
set a new hearing date, upon a petition filed within twenty one (21) days after
the issuance of the order of default, if the hearing officer determines that
the petitioner's failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any
time if the petitioner establishes that the village did not provide proper
service of process. If any judgment is set aside pursuant to this subsection,
the hearing officer shall have authority to enter an order extinguishing any
lien which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the village as a result
of the vacated default judgment. (Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 5
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
14-5-1: Applicability
14-5-2: Hearing Officers
14-5-3: Administrative Hearings
14-5-4: Administrative Review Law To Apply
14-5-5: Administrative Remedies Not Exclusive
14-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all administrative adjudications
conducted pursuant to the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010;
amd. Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-5-2: HEARING OFFICERS:
Administrative hearing officers are hereby authorized, empowered and directed
to:
   A.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the existence or
nonexistence of an ordinance or code violation;
   B.   Introduce all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
   C.   Administer oaths and issue subpoenas;
   D.   Issue a determination, based on the evidence presented at the hearing,
of whether a code or ordinance violation occurred or exists. The administrative
hearing officer's determination shall be in writing and shall include written
findings of fact, decision, and order including any fine, penalty, cost or
other action with which the respondent must comply including correcting a code
violation by a date certain;
   E.   Impose hearing costs in addition to any fines or other sanctions
assessed against a respondent found liable of a code or ordinance violation.
Administrative hearing costs shall be forty dollars ($40.00);
   F.   Hold prehearing conferences for the purpose of settlement, scheduling
or simplification of issues;
   G.   Rule on motions, objections and the admissibility of evidence;
provided, however, that the administrative hearing officer is not empowered to
rule on motions raising constitutional issues;
   H.   The maximum monetary fine as herein provided shall, except as may
otherwise be provided, be exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs incurred
by the village to secure compliance with the village's ordinances and the
maximum fine limitation shall not be applicable to cases to enforce the
collection of any tax imposed and collected by the village of Winfield;
   I.   Order any respondent to take corrective action in order to comply with
the requirements of any village ordinance;
   J.   Waive any hearing costs and/or fines upon a finding of compliance for a
violation of the village ordinance where that violation required the respondent
to take corrective action to comply with the provisions of the violated
ordinance. (Ord. 2012-08-22, 8-2-2012; amd. Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-5-3: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   Hearing dates shall be at the date, time and place as is set forth in
the violation notice or citation issued and served in accordance with this
title or such additional notices issued in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   All administrative hearings shall be tape recorded.
   C.   Persons appearing to contest the alleged standing, parking, or
compliance violation, code violation or ordinance violation on its merits may
be represented by counsel at their own expense and may present evidence and
cross examine opposing witnesses.
   D.   The hearing officer shall consider testimony and other evidence without
the application of the formal or technical rules of evidence.
   E.   Administrative hearings shall culminate in a determination of the
hearing officer as set forth in chapter 2 or 6 of this title.
   F.   The hearing officer shall, upon a determination of liability, assess
fines and penalties as set forth in chapter 2 or 6 of this title. (Ord. 2010-
05-12, 5-6-2010; amd. Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
14-5-4: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW TO APPLY:
The finding, decision and order of the hearing officer shall be subject to
review in the circuit court of the appropriate county, and the provisions of
the administrative review law 1 , and all amendments and modifications thereto,
and the rules adopted pursuant thereto are adopted and shall apply to and
govern every action for the judicial review of the findings, decision and order
of a hearing officer under this chapter, except as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-2010; amd. Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
14-5-5: ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this title, in addition
to any monetary penalties or fines assessed by the hearing officer hereunder,
the village shall have the right to pursue any other legally available remedies
to abate, enjoin or prevent violations of the village's codes and ordinances,
including, but not limited to, license or permit revocation or suspension
proceedings, injunctive relief or other legal or equitable remedies, all of
which remedies shall be cumulative and not exclusive. (Ord. 2010-05-12, 5-6-
2010; amd. Ord. 2012-08-30, 8-2-2012)
CHAPTER 6
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
14-6-1: Definitions
14-6-2: System Locations
14-6-3: Violations
14-6-4: Defenses
14-6-5: Notice Of Violation
14-6-6: Hearing
14-6-7: Non-Residents
14-6-8: Final Determination
14-6-9: Notice Of Determination Of Liability
14-6-10: Notice Of Final Determination
14-6-11: Petitions To Set Aside Determination
14-6-12: Notice Of Impending Driver's License Suspension
14-6-13: Driver's License Suspension
14-6-14: Penalty
14-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: Means a device within the Village
with one or more motor vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light
signal to produce recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection
against a steady or flashing red signal indication in violation of section 11-
306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code ("code"), 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
306, or similar violation of this Village Municipal Code.
DISREGARDING A TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: Means failure to stop and remain stopped
before an intersection that is controlled by a red signal as provided for in
section 11-306 of the code.
NO TURN ON RED: Means where the motor vehicle comes to a complete stop and does
not enter the intersection as defined by section 1-132 of the code, during the
cycle of the red signal indication unless one or more pedestrians are present,
even if the motor vehicle stops at a point past a stop line or crosswalk where
a driver is required to stop, as specified in subsection (c) of section 11-306
of the code or this chapter.
RECORDED IMAGES: Means images produced by the automated traffic law enforcement
system, which consist of either two (2) or more photographs; two (2) or more
microphotographs; two (2) or more electronic images; or, a video recording
showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of the
recording, clearly identifying the registration plate number of the motor
vehicle.
TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR: Means the person appointed as such through
section
14-2-3 of this Village Code and shall have the following additional powers:
adopt, distribute and process automated traffic law violation notices and other
notices required by this chapter, collect money paid as fines and penalties,
operate the automated traffic law enforcement system, and make certified
reports to the Secretary of State as required by this chapter. (Ord. 2018-05-
15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-2: SYSTEM LOCATIONS:
   A.   The Village hereby determines to establish systems at the following
intersections within the corporate limits of the Village:
 
Intersections                Jurisdiction
Roosevelt Road/Winfield Road IDOT and Village of Winfield
 
   B.   The Village shall post on its website the location(s) of automated
traffic law enforcement systems.
   C.   The Village shall cause statistical analyses regarding the safety
impacts of the system(s) to be done following their installation. The studies
shall be available to the public on the Village's website. (Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-
3-2018)
14-6-3: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for a vehicle to disregard a traffic
control device or turn on red in violation of section 11-306 of the code. All
violations must be reviewed and approved by a law enforcement officer employed
by the Village. (Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-4: DEFENSES:
   A.   The following may be considered defenses by the Hearing Officer for a
violation of this chapter:
      1.   That the motor vehicle or registration plates of the motor vehicle
were stolen before the violation occurred, and not under the control of or in
the possession of the owner at the time of the violation;
      2.   That the driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection when
the light was red either: a) in order to yield the right-of- way to an
emergency vehicle or b) as part of a funeral procession;
      3.   That the vehicle came to a complete stop or did not enter the
intersection.
To demonstrate that the motor vehicle or the registration plates were stolen
before the violation occurred and were not under the control or possession of
the owner at the time of the violation, the owner must submit proof that a
report concerning the stolen motor vehicle or registration plates was filed
with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner. (Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-5: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   When the automated traffic law enforcement system records a motor
vehicle entering an intersection in violation of section
14-6-3 of this chapter, the Village shall issue a written Notice of Violation
to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, which shall be delivered by
U.S. mail within thirty (30) days after the Illinois Secretary of State
notifies the Village of the identity of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, and in no event later than ninety (90) days following the violation.
The Village shall only be required to notify a lessee if the leasing company/
lessor provides the lessee's name by an affidavit and a copy of the lease
within sixty (60) days of the notice's issuance. If the driver information is
not provided within sixty (60) days, the leasing company/lessor may be found
liable. If any notice to an address is returned as undeliverable, a second
notice shall be sent to the last known address recorded in a United States Post
Office approved database of the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle. The
second notice shall be made by first class mail postage prepaid.
   B.   A Notice of Violation associated with an automated traffic law
violation shall require a review of the associated recorded image by the
Traffic Compliance Administrator, who shall inspect the image and determine
whether the motor vehicle was being operated in violation of section
14-6-3 of this chapter or whether one of the defenses enumerated in section
14-6-4 of this chapter is visibly applicable upon inspection. Upon
determination that the recorded image captures a violation and that no defense
applies, the Notice of Violation shall be served upon the registered vehicle
owner in the manner provided for above. The Traffic Compliance Administrator
shall retain a copy of all violation notices, recorded images and other
correspondence mailed to the owner of the vehicle. Each Notice of Violation
shall constitute evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is
admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation of the above-noted statutory
and local provisions and shall be prima facie evidence of a violation, subject
to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in this chapter.
   C.   The Notice of Violation shall include the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the Secretary of State, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a United States Post Office approved database;
      2.   The make (only if discernable) and registration number of the motor
vehicle involved in the violation;
      3.   The violation charged;
      4.   The location where the violation occurred.
      5.   The date and time of the violation;
      6.   A copy of the recorded images;
      7.   The amount of the civil penalty and the date by which the penalty
should be paid (14 days from the date of issuance), if a hearing is not
requested, and a statement that the payment of the fine shall operate as a
final disposition of the violation;
      8.   A statement that a failure to pay the civil penalty by the date
noted may result in an additional late fee being assessed against the owner or
lessee;
      9.   The amount of the late fee;
      10.   A statement that the failure to pay by the date specified will
result in a final determination of liability and may result in the suspension
of driving privileges for the registered owner of the vehicle;
      11.   A statement that the recorded images constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation;
      12.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by paying the fine
or challenging the charge in court, by mail or by administrative hearing; and
      13.   A statement of how an administrative hearing may be requested.
(Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-6: HEARING:
The owner of a vehicle being operated in violation of section
14-6-3 of this chapter may request a hearing by the respond-by date on the
Notice of Violation (14 days from the date of issuance), to challenge the
evidence or set forth an applicable defense. The Notice of Violation shall
constitute evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is admissible in
any proceeding alleging a violation of section
14-6-3 of this chapter. The Notice of Violation shall be prima facie evidence
of a violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in
section
14-6-4 of this chapter.
The owner's failure to appear at the hearing will result in a finding of
liability. To the event of a failure to appear, a "Findings, Decision and
Order" letter will be sent to the owner. The owner's failure to pay the amount
by the date specified in that letter will result in a final determination.
(Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-7: NON-RESIDENTS:
Where the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle is not a resident of
the Village but seeks to contest the merits of the alleged violation, such
person may contest the charges using the same available defenses as stated
above, but rather than attend the administrative hearing, they may submit any
and all documentary evidence to the Traffic Compliance Administrator no later
than the hearing date, together with a written statement reflecting that they
are non-residents of the Village. The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall
forward all timely- submitted materials to the Hearing Officer for review and
determination. (Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-8: FINAL DETERMINATION:
A final determination of an automated traffic law violation(s) liability shall
occur:
   A.   Following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty after
the Hearing Officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking, compliance
regulation or automated traffic law violation(s) liability within the required
twenty five (25) days and the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust any
administrative review procedures hereinafter set forth, or
   B.   Where a person fails to appear at a prior requested administrative
hearing provided to contest the alleged standing, parking or compliance
regulation violation(s) on the date and at the time and place specified in a
prior served or mailed notice, or fails to appear at the hearing for an
automated traffic law violation on the date and at the time and place specified
in a prior mailed notice. The Hearing Office's determination of vehicular
standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s)
liability shall become final upon the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust
any administrative or judicial review procedures hereinafter set forth:
      1.   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination, or
      2.   Upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition without a
filing having been made. (Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-9: NOTICE OF DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
A determination of automated traffic law violation liability shall occur
following failure to pay the fine or penalty, or to contest the alleged
violation within fourteen (14) days of the Notice of Violation. Where a person
fails to appear at a hearing to contest the alleged violation in the time and
manner specified in a prior mailed notice, the Hearing Officer will enter
Findings, Decision and Order's determination of automated traffic law violation
liability which shall become final: a) upon denial of a timely petition to set
aside that determination, or b) upon expiration of the period for filing such a
petition without a filing having been made. If a person appears at a hearing
and is found liable or contests the violation by mail and is found liable, the
Hearing Officer will enter Findings, Decision and Order, which is a final
determination of automated traffic law violation liability that is a final,
appealable order. (Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-10: NOTICE OF FINAL DETERMINATION:
   A.   A Notice of Final Determination shall be sent following the final
determination of automated traffic law violation liability and the conclusion
of judicial review. The Notice of Final Determination shall include the
following information:
      1.   A statement that the unpaid fine is a debt due and owing to the
Village, and
      2.   A warning that a failure to pay any fine due and owing to the
Village of Winfield within fourteen (14) days may result in a petition to the
Circuit Court of DuPage County to have the unpaid fine rendered as a judgment
or may result in the suspension of the person's driver's license for failure to
pay fines or penalties for five (5) or more violations under this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-11: PETITIONS TO SET ASIDE DETERMINATION:
   A.   A Petition to Set Aside Determination of an automated traffic law
violation must be filed with or mailed to the Traffic Control Administrator
within fourteen (14) days of the date of mailing of the Notice of Determination
of Liability. The grounds for the petition are limited to:
      1.   The person was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the
date the violation notice was issued;
      2.   The person having already paid the fine for the violation in
question; and
      3.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely petition to set aside the determination of liability,
the Hearing Officer shall review the petition to determine if cause has been
shown to set aside the determination. If cause has been shown, the Village
shall forward the petitioner a new hearing date on which the petitioner must
appear to present his case. The Village shall notify the petitioner of the
Hearing Officer's decision to grant a hearing or deny the petition within
fourteen (14) days of the Village's receipt. (Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-12: NOTICE OF IMPENDING DRIVER'S LICENSE SUSPENSION:
   A.   A Notice of Impending Driver's License Suspension shall be sent to the
person liable for any fine or penalty that remains due and owing on five (5) or
more violations of this chapter. The Notice of Impending Driver's License
Suspension shall state the following information:
      1.   The failure to pay the fine owing within forty five (45) days of the
notice's date will result in the Village notifying the Secretary of State that
the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings under section
6-306.5 of the code;
      2.   A statement that the person may obtain a copy of the original ticket
imposing a fine by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to the Village
along with a request for the copy.
The Notice of Impending Driver's License Suspension shall be sent by first
class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the Secretary of
State or, if any notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, to the
last known address recorded in a United States Post Office approved database.
(Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-13: DRIVER'S LICENSE SUSPENSION:
   A.   The Traffic Compliance Administrator, by certified report, shall
request that the Secretary of State suspend the driving privileges of an owner
of a registered vehicle who has failed to pay any fine or penalty due and owing
as a result of five (5) automated traffic violations. The report shall be
certified and contain the following:
      1.   The name, last known address as recorded with the Secretary of
State, as provided by the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of lease, or
as recorded in a United States Post Office approved database if any notice sent
under this chapter is returned as undeliverable, and driver's license number of
the person who failed to pay the fine or penalty and the registration number of
any vehicle known to be registered to such person in a state;
      2.   The name of the municipality making the report pursuant to this
section; and
      3.   A statement that a Notice of Impending Driver's License Suspension
has been sent to the person named in the report at the address recorded with
the Secretary of State or at the last address known to the lessor of the cited
vehicle at the time of the lease or, if any notice sent under this chapter is
returned as undeliverable at the last known address recorded at a United States
Post Office approved database; the date on which such notice was sent; and
address to which such notice was sent.
The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall notify the Secretary of State
whenever a person named in the certified report has paid the previously
recorded fine or penalty or whenever the Municipality determines that the
original report was in error. A certified copy of such notification shall also
be given upon request and at no additional charge to the person named therein.
Any person receiving notice from the Secretary of State that their driving
privileges may be suspended at the end of a specified period may challenge the
accuracy of the certified report prepared by the Traffic Compliance
Administrator. The person shall, within seven (7) days after having received
notice from the Secretary of State, request an opportunity to speak with the
Traffic Compliance Administrator to challenge the accuracy of the certified
report. If the Traffic Compliance Administrator determines that the original
report was in error due to the fact that the person challenging the report was
not the owner or lessee of the vehicle or that the person has already paid
their fine for the five (5) or more automated traffic violations, the Traffic
Compliance Administrator shall immediately notify the Secretary of State of
such error in a subsequent certified report. (Ord. 2018-05-15, 5-3-2018)
14-6-14: PENALTY:
The owner (or lessee) of a motor vehicle is subject to a penalty of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per automated traffic law violation. In the event that such
penalty is not paid within fourteen (14) days after service of a Final
Determination of Liability, an additional one hundred dollar ($100.00) late
payment penalty shall be imposed. A penalty shall not apply if the driver of
the motor vehicle received a Uniform Traffic Citation from a police officer at
the time of the violation. The Village may not charge court costs or hearing
fees to persons found liable after exercising their right to appear and contest
the violation at an administrative hearing. (Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION; TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
14-7-1: Immobilization; Towing And Impoundment
14-7-1: IMMOBILIZATION; TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Any motor vehicle whose registered owner has been determined to be
liable for three (3) or more vehicular standing, parking, or compliance
regulations or automated traffic law violation(s), for which the fines or
penalties assessed remain unpaid, may be immobilized or towed and impounded if:
      1.   The administrative hearing officer had determined that a person has
been found liable for three (3) or more vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulations or automated traffic law violation(s), the fines or
penalties for which remain unpaid.
      2.   The person determined to be liable for three (3) or more violations
is the registered owner of the motor vehicle located within the village
geographical boundaries.
      3.   A notice of impending vehicle immobilization and right to challenge
the validity of said notice by disproving liability for the unpaid final
determination of parking, standing, or compliance or automated traffic law
liability set forth on the notice has been sent to the registered owner of the
motor vehicle owner located within the geographical boundaries of the village
which contains, but shall not be limited to, the following:
         a.   A final determination has been made of three (3) or more
vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulations or automated traffic law
violations, the fines and penalties of which remain unpaid.
         b.   A listing of the violations for which the person has been
determined to be liable, which shall include for each violation:
            (1)   The vehicular standing, parking, compliance regulation or
automated traffic law violation notice number.
            (2)   Date of issuance.
            (3)   Total amount of fines and penalties assessed.
         c.   The motor vehicle(s) owned by the person and located within the
village is subject to immobilization and/or towing and impoundment if the fines
and penalties are not paid within fourteen (14) days of the date of the notice.
         d.   The registered owner may contest the validity of the notice by
fully completing and signing the request for hearing portion of one notice and
by filing the request for hearing with the traffic compliance administrator
(Winfield police records technician) within, but not later than, fourteen (14)
days of the date of the notice. The request for hearing shall be deemed filed
upon receipt by the traffic compliance administrator through the village of
Winfield police department.
      4.   The motor vehicle(s) of the registered owner to whom notice is sent
had failed to make payment of the fines or penalties as specified in the
notice, and no timely request for hearing had been filed with the traffic
compliance administrator to contest the validity of the notice.
      5.   Upon receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity of
the notice of impending immobilization of towing and impoundment, the traffic
compliance administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest
the validity of said notice by disproving liability for the unpaid final
determinations of parking, standing, compliance or automated traffic law
violation liability listed on the notice, on the next available hearing date,
but in no case shall the hearing be scheduled later than sixty (60) days after
the request for hearing is filed.
         a.   The traffic compliance administrator shall have the notice of the
hearing date served upon the registered owner.
         b.   Notice shall be sent by first class mail, postage paid, to the
address as is set forth on the request for hearing.
         c.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed
in the United States mail.
      6.   The registered owner of a vehicle(s) immobilized or towed and
impounded under this section shall have the right to an administrative hearing
to be held at the next regularly scheduled administrative court session without
the requirement of payment of outstanding fines and penalties for which final
determination has been made.
         a.   The traffic compliance administrator shall serve a
postimmobilization and posttowing notice upon the registered owner of a vehicle
immobilized or towed and impounded under this section which notice shall advise
the registered owner of the vehicle of the right to a hearing to challenge the
validity of the immobilization or impoundment and which shall contain, but not
be limited to, the following information:
            (1)   Date of immobilization or towing and date of impoundment.
            (2)   Location of vehicle.
            (3)   That the vehicle was immobilized under this section for
nonpayment of fines or penalties assessed for the violation of three (3) or
more violations of vehicular standing, compliance or automated traffic law
regulations for which the registered owner has been determined liable and
notified of impending immobilization or towing and impoundment.
            (4)   That the notice of impending immobilization or towing and
impoundment was issued.
            (5)   That the registered owner may contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment by completing and signing the request
for hearing portion of the notice and filing the request for hearing with the
traffic compliance administrator within, but not later than, fourteen (14) days
of the notice which shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the traffic
compliance administrator.
         b.   Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the
validity of the immobilization or towing and impoundment, the traffic
compliance administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest
the validity of the immobilization or towing and impoundment on the next
available hearing date or sooner if scheduled by the traffic compliance
administrator for good cause shown, but in no case shall the hearing be
scheduled later than sixty (60) days after the request for hearing is filed.
            (1)   The traffic compliance administrator shall have notice served
of the hearing date upon the registered owner.
            (2)   Notice shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to
the address as is set forth on the request of the hearing.
            (3)   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is
placed in the United States mail.
      7.   An order entered after the hearing to contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment is a final administrative decision
with the meaning of 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.,
incorporated herein by reference.
         a.   A vehicle immobilized or impounded pursuant to this section shall
be released to the registered owner thereof or his agent, upon:
            (1)   Payment of the fines and penalties due and owing the
municipality as specified in the notice set in accordance with subsection A3 of
this section.
            (2)   Payment of the fee for the installation and removal of an
immobilization device.
            (3)   Payment of towing charges and accrued daily impound charges.
            (4)   Administrative fees upon order of the village hearing officer
following the hearing contesting the validity of the impoundment.
      8.   The village shall appoint or retain the services of an individual,
agency or company to tow and impound vehicles in accordance herewith provided:
         a.   The individual, agency or company is fully licensed according to
local and state law.
         b.   The individual, agency or company is fully insured.
         c.   The individual, agency or company complies with all the
requirements as outlined in the village towing ordinance. (Ord. 2015-05-16, 5-
7-2015)
