VILLAGE OF WINTHROP HARBOR, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-31 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 5
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3903.bmp]
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1990-0-19
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF
WINTHROP HARBOR, ILLINOIS: ESTABLISHING THE SAME; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF
CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREIN EXPRESSLY PROVIDED;
PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES; PROVIDING A
PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; AND PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL
BECOME EFFECTIVE.
   BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Winthrop Harbor, Illinois, as follows:
   Section 1. That this Ordinance is hereby adopted and enacted as the "Code of
Ordinances of Winthrop Harbor, Illinois;" and shall be treated and considered
as a new and original comprehensive ordinance which shall supercede all other
general and permanent ordinances passed by the President and Board of Trustees
on or before January 1, 1990, except such as by reference thereto are expressly
saved from repeal or continued in force and effect for any purpose.
   Section 2. That all ordinances of a general and permanent nature of the
Village of Winthrop Harbor, enacted on final passage on or before August 7,
1990, and not in such Code, or recognized and continued in force by reference
therein, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of such Code,
except as hereinafter provided.
   Section 3. That the repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not affect
any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or
any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of such
Code; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance or resolution promising or
guaranteeing the payment of money for the Village; or authorizing the issuance
of any bonds of the Village or any evidence of the Village's indebtedness, or
any contract or obligation assumed by the Village; nor shall such repeal affect
the administrative ordinances or resolutions of the President and Board of
Trustees not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of such Code; nor
shall such repeal affect any right or franchise granted by any ordinances of
the Village; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance dedicating, naming,
establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, or vacating any
street or public way in the Village; or establishing or changing any street
grades or prescribing the datum plan for the Village; nor shall such repeal
affect appropriation ordinances; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance
levying or imposing taxes or establishing a limitation on the levy of taxes for
specified purposes; nor shall such repeal affect the zoning ordinance or any
amendment thereto; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance providing for
local improvements or making assessments therefor; nor shall such repeal affect
any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the Village;
nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance extending or contracting the
boundaries of the Village; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance
prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any Village officer
or employee, not inconsistent herewith, nor shall such repeal be construed to
revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent
ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance.
   Section 4. That any and all additions or amendments to such Code, when
passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the President and Board of
Trustees to make the same a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in
such Code, so that reference to the "Code of Ordinances of Winthrop Harbor,
Illinois," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and
amendments.
   Section 5. That a copy of such Code shall be kept on file in the Office of
the Clerk, preserved in looseleaf form. It shall be the express duty of the
Clerk, or someone authorized by her to insert in their designated places all
amendments or ordinances which indicate the intention of the President and
Board of Trustees to make the same a part of such Code when the same have been
printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from such Code all provisions
which may from time to time be repealed by the President and Board of Trustees.
This copy of such Code shall be available for all persons desiring to examine
the same and shall be considered the official Code of Ordinances of Winthrop
Harbor, Illinois.
   Section 6. Whenever in such Code any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor or a violation of such Code, where no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this Code shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500. Each day any
violation of any provisions of this Code shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
   Section 7. That in case of the amendment of any section of such Code for
which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in Section 6
of this ordinance shall apply to the section as amended or in case such
amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the
aforementioned general penalty is provided in another section in the same
chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate
to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed
therein.
   Section 8. That it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation in
the Village to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion
of such Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or
tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the laws of the
Village of Winthrop Harbor to be misrepresented thereby. Any person, firm, or
corporation violating this section shall be punished as provided in Section 6
of this Ordinance of the Village of Winthrop Harbor, Illinois.
   Section 9. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 10. That the ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage, approval and publication as provided by law.
   Section 11. That this ordinance and the Code adopted hereby shall be printed
and published in book or pamphlet form by order of the President and Board of
Trustees.
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Bernard Wysocki /s/
Village Attorney
APPROVED:
Robert J. Marabella /s/
Mayor
ATTEST:
Dawn L. McLain /s/
Village Clerk
AYES: Ambrose, Levin, Mallery, Nelson, Pushee, Rode
NAYS: None
ABSENT: None
First Reading:       July 17, 1990
Ordinance Passed:   August 7, 1990
ORDINANCE 1993-0-17
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE VILLAGE OF WINTHROP HARBOR.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Winthrop Harbor, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Illinois Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Winthrop Harbor, State of Illinois.
   SECTION 1. That the S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village
of Winthrop Harbor as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage and publication as provided by law.
Passed this seventh day of September, 1993.
APPROVED:
Michael D. Lambert /s/
MAYOR
ATTEST:
Dawn L. McLain /s/
VILLAGE CLERK
AYES:      Ambrose, Karner, Nelson, Rode, Springer
NAYS:      Mallery
ABSENT:   None
ORDINANCE 2005-O-20
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF WINTHROP HARBOR, ILLINOIS.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the S-14 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Winthrop Harbor, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Illinois Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF WINTHROP HARBOR:
SECTION 1. That the S-14 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Winthrop Harbor as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Village Clerk is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED THIS 4TH DAY OF OCTOBER, 2005.
APPROVED:
Joe Leech, Jr., /s/
JOE LEECH, JR., MAYOR
ATTEST:
Jana J. Lee /s/
JANA J. LEE, VILLAGE CLERK
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11. CORPORATE SEAL; DATUM AND BENCHMARK
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Village of Winthrop Harbor,
Illinois, shall be designated as the Code of Winthrop Harbor, and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD, BOARD OF TRUSTEES, or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the
Village of Winthrop Harbor.
   CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The President and Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Lake County, Illinois.
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   RESIDENCY. The term RESIDENCY  shall have the same meaning as provided in
ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5 § 3-1.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapter have subchapters.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Winthrop Harbor, Illinois.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal law, shall
be the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the corporate authorities shall desire to amend any existing
chapter or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically
repealed and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment,
substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-85). An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute
for further information. Example:
§ 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created
by different sections of this Code of Ordinances, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense. However, the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   (B)   Whenever in this Code of Ordinances the doing of any act or the
omission of any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this
Code and there is no fine or penalty declared for such breach, any person who
shall be convicted of any such breach shall be fined not more than $750 for
each offense.
('79 Code, § 2201(4)) (Am. Ord. 2001-O-33, passed 12-18-01)
CHAPTER 11: CORPORATE SEAL; DATUM AND BENCHMARK
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
   
11.02   Datum and benchmark
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The Corporate Seal of the village shall be as follows:
   The Illinois State Seal encircled by the letters VILLAGE OF WINTHROP HARBOR
LAKE COUNTY, ILLINOIS.
('79 Code, § 1002(1))
§ 11.02 DATUM AND BENCHMARK.
   (A)   The datum for the village shall be the chiseled square on top of the
inspection manhole hatch of the water reservoir located at 940 West Broadway,
Winthrop Harbor, Illinois. The elevation established at said point is 693.052
feet based on United States Geological Survey datum.
   (B)   All grades hereafter established, fixed, or referred to shall be
measured from the datum hereby established.
('79 Code, § 1002(21))
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS; COMMITTEES
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
36.   VILLAGE POLICIES
      
37.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT POLICIES
      
38.   GIFT BAN
      
39.    CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Election; legislative functions
   
30.02   Oath; salary
   
30.03   Standing and special committees
   
30.04   Legal Counsel
Meetings
   
30.10   Regular and special meetings
   
30.11   Quorum
   
30.12   Presiding Officer
   
30.13   Order of business
   
30.14   Rescinded action
   
30.15   Resolutions
   
30.16   Addressing meetings
   
30.17   Rules of order
   
30.18   Suspension of rules
   
30.19   Disturbing meetings
   
30.20   Remote attendance at Board of Trustees meeting
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ELECTION; LEGISLATIVE FUNCTIONS.
   The Board of Trustees, consisting of six Trustees and the President, shall
be elected to office for a four- year term, according to the method provided by
statute. This Board shall be the legislative department of the village
government, and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be
delegated to it by statute. No member of the Board, during the term of office
for which he is elected, may accept or be appointed to hold any other village
office or otherwise be an employee of the village by the appointment of the
Village President, unless otherwise provided herein.
('79 Code, § 201)
§ 30.02 OATH; SALARY.
   The members of the Board of Trustees shall take the oath of office
prescribed by statute, and shall receive such compensation as may be provided
by ordinance.
('79 Code, § 202)
§ 30.03 STANDING AND SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint two Trustees to each of the following standing
committees, with one such Trustee designated as the Chair. The duties of the
members of these committees are specifically limited to working with the
department heads within the scope of the committees, but not directing them in
the means and manner of their job performance, such responsibility remaining
always within the direction and control of the Administrator. Rather, the
committee members shall be charged with learning of issues existing within the
scope of the departments assigned and to advocate for budgeting, regulatory
changes and project initiatives to the entire Village Board in open session.
      (l)   Public Works and Parks (Streets, Water, Sewer, Parks).
         (a)   Two Trustees, one designated as Chair.
         (b)   Superintendent of Public Works.
         (c)   Parks and Recreation Director.
      (2)   Public Safety (Police, Fire, Emergency Management, Special Police
Details).
         (a)   Two Trustees, one designated as Chair.
         (b)   Police Chief.
         (c)   Fire Chief.
      (3)   Administration and Community Development (Administration, Planning,
Zoning, Finance, Community/Economic Development).
         (a)   Two Trustees, one designated as Chair.
         (b)   Village Administrator.
         (c)   Community Development Director.
   (B)   The Mayor may also appoint two or more Trustees to special committees
or ad hoc committees as he or she may deem fit. The Mayor's directions to
create such committees shall contain the scope of responsibility so assigned
and shall be limited in time of existence and scope so as to avoid conflict
with any standing committee.
(‘79 Code, § 212) (Ord. 1981-0-25, passed 12-15-81; Am. Ord. 1996-O-23, passed
12-3-96; Am. Ord. 2005-O-16, passed 8-16-05; Am. Ord. 2021-O-15, passed 5-18-
2021)
§ 30.04 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Legal Counsel to the Board of
Trustees of the village.
   (B)   The Legal Counsel to the Board of Trustees shall be appointed upon
motion made by the President of the Board of Trustees or any Trustee of the
village, and, upon a simple majority of the votes cast by the members of the
Board of Trustees in favor of that motion.
   (C)   The term of office for the Legal Counsel to the Board of Trustees
shall be for one year and shall begin on the first Tuesday of each May.
   (D)   Should a vacancy in the office of Legal Counsel to the Board of
Trustees occur, either by the expiration of the term of Legal Counsel or
resignation of the Legal Counsel, the tenured Legal Counsel shall continue in
office until his or her successor is qualified by the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Legal Counsel to the Board of Trustees to:
      (1)   To prosecute or defend all suits or causes of actions to which the
village, or its Board of Trustees, may be a party, or which it may have an
interest in, or which may be brought against by an officer of the village on
behalf of the village or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the
village.
      (2)   See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees entered in
favor of the village and all similar interlocutory decrees.
      (3)   Be the legal adviser to the Board of Trustees and render advice to
the Board of Trustees on all legal questions effecting it when requested to do
so by a member of the Board of Trustees, including its President, and upon
request to reduce any such opinion in writing.
      (4)   Prosecute to completion all special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings.
      (5)   Supervise the drafting of any contract, lease or other legal
document or instrument to which the Board of Trustees may be a party.
      (6)   Draft all ordinances or resolutions as requested covering any
subject within the powers of the municipality.
      (7)   Retain special counsel to advise or represent the Board of
Trustees, the village, or any of its officers on special matters or to assist
the Legal Counsel to the Board of Trustees in any matter.
(Ord. 1993-0-09, passed 5-4-93)
MEETINGS
§ 30.10 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held on the
first Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m.; no notice of such regular meetings
shall be required.
      (1)   The meeting place of the Board of Trustees shall be in the Board
Room at the Village Hall, unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Any regular meeting falling upon a legal holiday shall be held on
the day following at the same hour and place specified.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Village President or any three
Trustees upon at least 24 hours’ notice to all members and the President.
   (C)   Emergency meetings may be called in the manner prescribed by ILCS Ch.
5, Act 120, § 2.02(a).
(‘79 Code, § 203) (Ord. 1982-0-30, passed 12-21-82; Am. Ord. 2021-O-14, passed
5-18-21)
§ 30.11 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business.
However, no ordinance shall be passed except upon a favorable vote of a
majority of the elected members as provided by statute.
('79 Code, § 204)
§ 30.12 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Village President shall be the Presiding Officer of all regular and
special meetings of the Board of Trustees at all times when the Board meets as
a committee of the whole.
('79 Code, § 205)
§ 30.13 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business at meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Roll call.
   (B)   Invocation and Pledge of Allegiance.
   (C)   Absent officials wishing to attend remotely.
   (D)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting or meetings.
   (E)   Mayor’s report.
   (F)   Village Administrator's report.
   (G)   Clerk's correspondence.
   (H)   Old business.
   (I)   Liaisons' reports on new business.
   (J)   Public comment.
   (K)   Other business.
   (L)   Closed session for any purpose allowed by law under the Illinois Open
Meetings Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 1, et. seq., including but not limited to
personnel, collective bargaining, purchase, sale or lease of land and
litigation.
   (M)   Adjournment.
(‘79 Code, § 206) (Am. Ord. 2020-O-2, passed 1-21-20)
§ 30.14 RESCINDED ACTION.
   No vote or action of the Board of Trustees shall be rescinded at any special
meeting of the Board unless there is present at such special meeting as many
members of the Board as were present at the meeting when such vote or action
was taken, as provided by statute.
('79 Code, § 207)
§ 30.15 RESOLUTIONS.
   Any resolutions submitted to the Board of Trustees shall be reduced to
writing before being voted upon, on the request of any two members of the
Board.
('79 Code, § 208)
§ 30.16 ADDRESSING MEETINGS.
   No person other than the President or a member of the Board of Trustees
shall address the Board at any regular or special meeting except upon the
consent of a majority of the Board members present at any meeting.
('79 Code, § 209)
§ 30.17 RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the deliberations of the Board of
Trustees except when in conflict with any of the rules set forth in this
chapter.
('79 Code, § 211)
§ 30.18 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended
at any time by the consent of a majority of the members present at any meeting.
('79 Code, § 210)
§ 30.19 DISTURBING MEETINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any meeting of the
Board of Trustees or any other duly constituted board or committee of this
village. In the event of any such disturbance, the President or other presiding
officer shall have the right to gavel the meeting to an immediate close, to
cause the council chambers (or such other location where the meeting is being
held) to be secured and the offender arrested or subdued as may be appropriate.
   (B)   (1)   Any person disturbing a meeting, but in a fashion not causing
the closing of the meeting shall be fined $100 for the first offense, $250 for
the second offense and $500 for the third and subsequent offense.
      (2)   Any person disturbing a meeting and causing the closing of the
meeting shall be fined $750 for any offense, and in addition shall be liable
for the entire costs incurred by the village in closing the meeting, subduing
the offender and securing the council chambers.
('79 Code, § 213) (Am. Ord. 2008-O-7, passed 3-18-08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.20 REMOTE ATTENDANCE AT BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING.
   (A)   Policy considerations. It is the policy of the Corporate Authorities
of Winthrop Harbor that the presence of the elected officials at all public
meetings is highly desirable. The public's ability to view actions being taken
by elected officials and to make meaningful input into the decision-making
process will be materially impaired by the lack of direct access to elected
officials in the public forum provided by meetings of the Board of Trustees.
Accordingly, the provisions for remote attendance at meetings set forth in this
section are intended to provide for the public's good, not necessarily for the
convenience or ease of the elected officials. As such, this policy should be
used sparingly and in strict conformance with the provisions described herein.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this policy, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
      (1)   ATTEND BY ELECTRONIC MEANS. Attending by audio or video conference.
      (2)   MEETING. Any gathering, whether in person or by video or audio
conference, telephone call, electronic means (such as, without limitation
electronic mail, electronic chat, and instant messaging), or other means of
contemporaneous interactive communications, of a majority of a quorum of the
members of the Board of Trustees held for the purposes of discussing public
business.
      (3)   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building or portion thereof owned or leased by
any public body.
   (C)   Electronic participation. If a quorum of the members of the Board of
Trustees is physically present as required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 7, a
majority of those members present may allow the Mayor or a Trustee to attend
the meeting by means of video or audio conference if such a person is prevented
from physically attending because of the following exclusive reasons and no
others:
      (1)   Personal illness or disability;
      (2)   Employment purposes;
      (3)   Business of the public body; or
      (4)   A family or other emergency.
   (D)   Notification requirements. If the Mayor or a Trustee wishes to attend
a meeting by audio or video conference, then the member must notify the Clerk
before the meeting unless such advance notice is impractical.
   (E)   Consideration of request for electronic participation.
      (1)   Consideration of a request for electronic participation shall occur
under the agenda item titled "Absent Officials Wishing to Attend Remotely".
      (2)   Any Trustee physically present may state an objection to allowing
remote attendance. In the absence of any such objection, the remote attendance
shall be deemed to be allowed without objection.
      (3)   Upon the making of an objection, those Trustees physically present
shall consider whether any such request meets the requirements of division (C),
and vote regarding whether the requestor may be allowed to participate
electronically or whether the objection should be upheld.
      (4)   An objection shall be upheld only where there is an affirmative
majority vote of the Trustees physically present.
      (5)   Any official requesting to attend the meeting by electronic means
may participate in the debate on such question but may not vote on the approval
of their own request.
      (6)   If more than one official requests to attend the meeting by
electronic means, such requests will be considered in the order in which
notification was received by the Clerk as required in division (D).
      (7)   Any official whose request to attend the meeting by electronic
means is approved may not vote on the approval of any other member's request
considered during that meeting, but may participate in any debate on the
question.
      (8)   Any official whose request for attendance by electronic means is
denied may continue to listen to and/or view the meeting via electronic means,
but may only participate to the same extent in which a member of the public
physically present at the meeting could participate.
   (F)   Closed sessions. Any official's request to attend by electronic means
only the closed session of any such meeting shall be considered and voted upon
in open session and otherwise in accordance with the Open Meetings Act.
(Ord. 2020-O-2, passed 1-21-20)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Application of chapter
   
31.002   Appointment of officers and employees
   
31.003   Term of office; vacancies
   
31.004   Disposition of all money received
   
31.005   Oath
   
31.006   Salaries and compensation
   
31.007   (Reserved)
   
31.008   Authorized spending levels
   
31.009   Employee indemnification
   
31.010   Motor vehicle liability insurance
   
31.011   Social Security; Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
   
31.012   Surrender of books and records
   
31.013   Power to make arrests
   
31.014   Elections; precinct and polling place
President
   
31.020   Election; term of office
   
31.021   Duties
   
31.022   Bond, oath, and salary
   
31.023   President Pro Tem
   
31.024   Temporary absence or vacancy in office
Clerk
   
31.030   Election and term; salary
   
31.031   Bond
   
31.032   Clerk to attest certain village documents
   
31.033   Reserved
   
31.034   Reserved
   
31.035   Records
   
31.036   Custodian of village seal
   
31.037   Custodian of official documents
   
31.038   Maintenance of index to records and documents
   
31.039   Additional duties
   
31.040   Vacancy
   
31.041   Reserved
   
31.042   Deputy Clerk
Village Administrator
   
31.045   Appointment; qualifications; removal
   
31.046   Compensation and bond
   
31.047   Powers and duties
Treasurer
   
31.050   Appointment
   
31.051   Bond
   
31.052   Duties
   
31.053   Deposit of funds
   
31.054   Records
   
31.055   Accounting
   
31.056   Reports
   
31.057   Deputy Treasurer
Building Inspector
   
31.065   Appointment
   
31.066   Duties
   
31.067   Reports
   
31.068   Authority to issue stop orders
   
31.069   Entry powers
Electrical Inspector
   
31.075   Qualifications
   
31.076   Powers
   
31.077   Inspections
   
31.078   Issuance of certificates of approval
Plumbing Inspector
   
31.085   Appointment
   
31.086   Duties
   
31.087   Authority to issue stop orders
Health Officer
   
31.095   Appointment
   
31.096   Duties
   
31.097   Reports
Superintendent of Public Works
   
31.105   Appointment
   
31.106   Duties; enforcement of ordinances
   
31.107   Offices abolished
Police Chaplain
   
31.115   Appointment
   
31.116   Eligibility
   
31.117   Duties
   
31.118   Compensation
Recreation Director
   
31.125   Appointment
   
31.126   Term of office
   
31.127   Residence
   
31.128   Duties and responsibilities
Village Collector
   
31.130   Creation
   
31.131   Bond
   
31.132   Duties
   
31.133   Accounting
Prosecuting Attorney
   
31.140   Creation
   
31.141   Licensed to practice law in state; independent contractor
   
31.142   Appointment
   
31.143   Term of office; removal
   
31.144   Vacancy
   
31.145   Duties
Code of Ethics for Village Officials
   
31.150   Definitions
   
31.151   General policy
   
31.152   Fair and equal treatment
   
31.153   Conflict of interest
Sexual Harassment Prohibition Policy
   
31.160   State regulations adopted
   
31.161   Policy adopted
   
31.162   Prohibition on sexual harassment
   
31.163   Definition of sexual harassment
   
31.164   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment
   
31.165   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations
   
31.166   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment
   
31.167   Consequences for knowingly making a false report
   
31.168   Existing ordinances or policies
   
31.169   Future amendments
   
31.170   Future acts deemed unconstitutional
 
   
31.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers and
employees of the village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office
or position or of the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
('79 Code, § 1001(1))
§ 31.002 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   All officers other than elective officers shall be appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, as is provided
by statute; however, all employees shall, in the absence of any provision to
the contrary, be appointed or selected by the Village President.
('79 Code, § 1001(2))
§ 31.003 TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Every appointive officer of the village shall hold office during the
fiscal year or until his successor is appointed and qualified, unless it is
otherwise provided by ordinance. In case of a vacancy in any such place, it
shall be filled in the manner in which appointments or selections are made, in
the absence of a provision to the contrary. ('79 Code, § 1001(3))
   (B)   Every appointive officer of the village, everyone holding a position
of the village, and every employee of the village, in the absence of any
provisions to the contrary, shall hold such office, position, or employment
during the pleasure of said Village President or for such period as may be
agreed to by the Village President; however, no such period in any event shall
extend beyond the April 30 immediately following the date of appointment.
Notwithstanding the provisions hereof or of any other provisions contained in
this code, every officer and every person holding a village position or
employment shall continue in such office, position, or employment until he is
expressly removed by the Village President or until his successor is appointed
and qualifies or accepts the position or employment, as the case may be. In
case of any vacancy, the same shall be filled in the same manner in which
appointments or selections are otherwise made, in the absence of provisions to
the contrary. ('79 Code, § 411)
§ 31.004 DISPOSITION OF ALL MONEY RECEIVED.
   Every officer, except the Village Treasurer, shall at least once each month
turn over all monies received by him in his official capacity to the Village
Clerk with a statement showing the source from which the same was received.
('79 Code, § 1001(4))
§ 31.005 OATH.
   Every officer of the village shall, before entering upon his duties, take
the oath prescribed by law.
('79 Code, § 1001(5))
§ 31.006 SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   All officers and employees of the village shall receive such salaries
as may be provided from time to time by action of the Village Board of
Trustees. ('79 Code, § 1001(6))
   (B)   Compensation and salaries shall be paid to the village officers and
employees in accordance with the wage and salary scale approved by the Board of
Trustees or in amounts not to exceed those fixed by the annual appropriation
ordinance, except when otherwise permitted by special ordinances and bond
issues. ('79 Code, § 410)
§ 31.007 (RESERVED).
§ 31.008 AUTHORIZED SPENDING LEVELS.
   (A)   Department heads are authorized to spend up to $2,500 for materials
and services required to carry out their normal work responsibilities,
provided, however, that the materials and services intended for purchase have
been provided for in the then-current village budget.
   (B)   The Administrator is authorized to approve the spending of up to
$5,000 per purchase for materials and services required by a department head to
carry out his or her normal work responsibilities, provided, however, that the
materials and services intended for purchase have been provided for in the
then-current village budget.
   (C)   In the event of a bona fide emergency, the Administrator, in
consultation with the chairman of the standing committee of the Village Board
charged with responsibility over that department is authorized to approve the
spending of up to $9,999.99 per purchase for materials and services required by
a department head to carry out his or her normal work responsibilities,
provided, however, that the materials and services intended for purchase have
been provided for in the then-current village budget. The Administrator shall
distribute a written memo to the Mayor and all other Trustees immediately upon
approving such an expenditure.
   (D)   Routine expenditures exempted.
      (1)   The limitations imposed upon the discretionary spending of
department heads shall not be deemed to apply to the following routine
purchases:
         (a)   Water purchases;
         (b)   Utility bills;
         (c)   Insurance premiums;
         (d)   Contractual services;
         (e)   Village payroll;
         (f)   Salt purchases;
         (g)   Payments on loans and leases;
         (h)   Postage.
      (2)   Notwithstanding these exemptions, routine purchases of the
materials, goods and services shall be submitted for prior approval to the
Village Board whenever practicable.
   (E)   If the Administrator is unavailable, the Mayor is authorized to act in
his or her stead. If the chairman of the standing committee is unavailable the
second trustee on that committee is authorized to act in the chairman's stead.
   (F)   If the need to purchase materials and/or services is critical to the
work situation due to anticipated and/or real damage to property or significant
public inconvenience would result, immediate action shall be taken by the
department heads and the Administrator. A written report, accounting for the
action and expenditures, shall be submitted to the Mayor and Village Board by
the Administrator, who shall bear final responsibility for all reporting and
ratification required by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-9-1 or any other statute.
(‘79 Code, § 1002(25)) (Ord. 1987-0-32, passed 9-15-87; Am. Ord. 2004-O-5,
passed 3-16-04; Am. Ord. 2012-O-13, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2021-O-24, passed
8-17-21)
§ 31.009 EMPLOYEE INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The village agrees to indemnify and hold harmless all employees,
appointed village officials, and elected village officials who, as a result of
any claim, lawsuit, litigation, or the like is found liable for any money
damages to any person, corporation, or otherwise, whether the damages are
regular, punitive, or otherwise, so long as such claim, lawsuit, litigation, or
the like arose out of, in connection with, or while in performance of the
official duties of said employee or of said appointed or elected official.
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall defend any claim against any person covered
by division (A). Further, the Village Attorney, if required, may designate
additional counsel to represent the village's interest and that of the employee
or official involved.
   (C)   The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) notwithstanding, the village
reserves the right to refuse to hold harmless or defend any employee or an
appointed or elected official who is found guilty of intentional torts or
willful, wanton, or fraudulent acts.
   (D)   The village reserves the right to repeal this section at any time;
however, such repeal shall only operate prospectively, and any claim arising
prior to its repeal shall be indemnified, subject to division (C) hereof.
('79 Code, § 1002(22)) (Ord. 1982-0-25, passed 10-19-82)
§ 31.010 MOTOR VEHICLE LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   All village officers (other than elected officers, to which this
section does not apply), employees, and volunteer members of a village
department who use their own motor vehicles in performing duties for the
village, shall maintain insurance on their motor vehicles in not less than the
following amounts:
      (1)   Bodily injury liability of $50,000 for each person injured and
$100,000 for each occurrence; and
      (2)   Property damages liability of $50,000 for each accident.
   (B)   To comply with the provisions of this section, each non-elected
officer, employee, and member of a volunteer department must file with the
Village Clerk a "certificate of insurance" showing that the coverages required
are in full force and effect.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall maintain a record of the expiration date of
each insurance policy for each person designated under this section and shall
obtain new "certificates of insurance" on or prior to such expiration showing
the extensions, renewal, or replacement of such insurance.
   (D)   Any person (other than on elected officer) who fails to present such
evidence of insurance or the extension, renewal, or replacement thereof, shall
be suspended without pay from serving the village until such time as the
Village Clerk determines that the insurance required by this section has been
obtained.
('79 Code, § 1001(11)) (Ord. 1985-0-4, passed 2-19-85)
§ 31.011 SOCIAL SECURITY; ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   It is declared to be the policy and purpose of the village to extend
to the eligible employees of the village the benefits of the Federal Old Age
and Survivors Insurance System as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act
and amendments thereto, and the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund. In
pursuance of said policy and for that purpose, the Village Clerk shall take
such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
   (B)   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to execute an
agreement with the State Employees' Retirement System of the State of Illinois
(Social Security Unit) and the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund to secure
coverage of eligible employees as provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided in division (A) hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts
and at such times as may be required by the applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
   (D)   Employer contributions and administrative expense shall be paid to the
state agency in accordance with applicable state laws and regulations from
amounts appropriated for such purpose.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall maintain such records and submit such reports
as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
('79 Code, § 1002(13))
§ 31.012 SURRENDER OF BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   Every officer of the village, upon termination of his office for any cause
whatsoever, shall deliver to his successor all books and records which may be
the property of the village. If no successor has been appointed within one week
after the termination of office, such property shall be delivered either to the
Clerk or to the Treasurer.
('79 Code, § 1001(8))
§ 31.013 POWER TO MAKE ARRESTS.
   The Village President and members of the Board of Trustees, as well as every
member of the Police Department, are hereby declared to be conservators of the
peace with such powers to make arrests as are given to the conservators of the
peace by statute.
('79 Code, § 1001(7))
§ 31.014 ELECTIONS; PRECINCT AND POLLING PLACE.
   Elections for village offices shall be held as provided by statute. The
village shall consist of one precinct, and the polling place shall be as set
forth in the election notice.
('79 Code, § 1002(5))
PRESIDENT
§ 31.020 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Village President shall be elected for a term of four years and shall be
the President of the Board of Trustees, as provided by statute.
('79 Code, § 101)
§ 31.021 DUTIES.
   (A)   The President shall be the chief executive officer of the village, and
shall perform all such duties as may be required of him by statute or
ordinance. He shall have supervision over all the executive officers and all
the employees of the village. He shall have the power and authority to inspect
all books and records kept by any village officer or employee at any reasonable
time. ('79 Code, § 102)
   (B)   The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees, all officers of the village whose appointment or election is
not otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in appointive offices shall
be filled in the same manner.
   (C)   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of
any officer of the village, this dispute shall be settled by the President
after consultation with the Village Attorney. The President shall have the
power to delegate to any officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform the duty.
('79 Code, § 103)
§ 31.022 BOND, OATH, AND SALARY.
   Before entering upon the duties of his office, the President shall give a
bond with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his duties in the amount prescribed by state statute,
and the cost of the official bond shall be paid by the village. He shall take
the oath of office prescribed by statute, and shall receive such compensation
as may be set from time to time by the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 104)
§ 31.023 PRESIDENT PRO TEM.
   (A)   During the temporary absence or disability of the Village President,
the Board of Trustees shall elect one of its number to act as President Pro
Tem, who during the absence or disability of the President shall perform the
duties pertaining to the office.
   (B)   (1)   However, if a vacancy occurs in the office of the President and
there remains an unexpired portion of the term of at least one year, the
vacancy shall be filled by a special election which shall be held within six
months after the vacancy occurs. The Board of Trustees shall elect one of its
members as acting President who shall perform the duties and possess all the
rights and powers of the President until a successor to fill the vacancy has
been elected and qualified.
2004 S-13
      (2)   If the unexpired portion of the term is less than one year, the
vacancy shall be filled by the Board of Trustees until a President is elected
at the next regular election and has qualified. Further, when the unexpired
portion is less than one year, there can be no special election.
('79 Code, § 105)
§ 31.024 TEMPORARY ABSENCE OR VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   President Pro Tem. The Village Board shall elect one of its members to
act as President Pro Tem at the first meeting following the qualification of
Trustees after each municipal election. The President Pro Tem shall chair
meetings of the Village Board in the absence of the President. If the President
is temporarily absent from the village for a period greater than three days or
suffers a disability which temporarily incapacitates him or her from the
performance of his or her duties, but does not create a vacancy in the office,
the President Pro Tem shall perform the duties and possess all the rights,
responsibilities and powers of the President. If the President expects to be
absent from the village for a period greater than three days, he or she shall
notify the President Pro Tem in writing of such absence and file a copy of the
notice with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Vacancy in office. A vacancy in the office of President shall be
deemed to occur in case of failure to qualify within 30 days after election;
death, resignation or removal of residence from the village; conviction of a
felony; absence from more than four consecutive regular meetings of the Village
Board for reasons other than sickness; conviction of malfeasance, misfeasance
or nonfeasance in exercising the powers of his or her office; or continuous
absence from the village for more than 30 days, but if additional time is
needed, leave may be granted by the Village Board for a longer absence.
   (C)   Acting President. When a vacancy in the office of President occurs,
the Village Board shall, without delay, appoint an eligible person to fill the
office as Acting President. The Acting President shall perform the duties and
possess all the rights, responsibilities and powers of the president until a
successor to fill the vacancy has been elected at a consolidated municipal
election of the voters of the village and has qualified, all pursuant to the
provisions described in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-50.
(Ord. 2020-O-8, passed 5-5-20)
CLERK
§ 31.030 ELECTION AND TERM; SALARY.
   The Village Clerk shall be elected and serve for a four-year term and until
his or her successor is elected and qualified, as provided by statute. The
Clerk shall receive such compensation as is provided from time to time by
ordinance.
('79 Code, § 301)
§ 31.031 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of this office, the Village Clerk shall
execute a bond in such amount as may be fixed by the Corporate Authorities by
resolution or ordinance and such bond shall be approved by the Corporate
Authorities, conditioned upon the faithful performance of these duties. The
cost of said bond is to be paid by the village.
('79 Code, § 302)
§ 31.032 CLERK TO ATTEST CERTAIN VILLAGE DOCUMENTS.
   The Village Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the village and all
licenses, permits, and such other documents as shall require this formality.
('79 Code, § 303)
§ 31.033 RESERVED.
§ 31.034 RESERVED.
§ 31.035 RECORDS.
   In addition to the record of ordinances and other records which the Clerk is
required by statute or ordinance to keep, the Clerk shall keep a register of
all licenses and permits issued, the payments thereon, a record showing all the
officers and regular employees of the village, such other records as may be
required by the Board of Trustees, and shall attend all meetings of the
corporate authorities and keep a full record of its proceedings in a journal.
('79 Code, § 306)
§ 31.036 CUSTODIAN OF VILLAGE SEAL.
   The Clerk shall be the custodian of the village seal, and shall affix its
impression on documents whenever this is required.
('79 Code, § 307)
§ 31.037 CUSTODIAN OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.
   The Clerk shall be custodian of all documents belonging to the village which
are not assigned to the custody of some other officer of the village by the
Village President or the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 308)
§ 31.038 MAINTENANCE OF INDEX TO RECORDS AND DOCUMENTS.
   The Village Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all documents
and records kept, so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be had.
('79 Code, § 309)
§ 31.039 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to see to the publication of
all ordinances required to be published. The Village Clerk shall attend all
meetings of the Board of Trustees and keep a record of the proceedings and
shall also be responsible for the preparation of ballots and other tasks in
connection with elections.
   (B)   In addition to the duties herein provided, the Clerk shall perform
such other duties and functions as may be required by statute, ordinance, or
the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 310)
§ 31.040 VACANCY.
   In case the office of the Village Clerk shall become vacant for any reason,
the President and Board of Trustees shall appoint a successor as provided by
statute.
('79 Code, § 311)
§ 31.041 RESERVED.
§ 31.042 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized to appoint one Deputy Clerk who
shall have the power and duty to execute all documents required by any law to
be executed by the Village Clerk and affix
the seal of the village thereto whenever required, such Deputy Clerk to act at
such time as hereinafter provided. In signing any documents, said Deputy Clerk
shall sign the name of the Village Clerk followed with the word "By" and the
Deputy Clerk's own name and the words "Deputy Clerk."
   (B)   The powers and duties herein described shall be exercised by such
Deputy Clerk only in the absence of the Village Clerk from the Village Clerk's
office in the Village Hall, and only when either written direction has been
given by the Village Clerk to such Deputy Clerk to exercise such power or the
Board of Trustees has determined by resolution that the Village Clerk is
temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform such functions.
   (C)   Such Deputy Clerk shall have the authority and powers hereinabove
described and such further power and authority as provided for by statute.
('79 Code, § 313)
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.045 APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Appointment. The Village Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor
subject to the majority approval of the then-sitting members of the Village
Board of Trustees. No Village Board member shall receive such appointment while
he or she is serving in that capacity.
   (B)   Qualifications. He or she shall be chosen for his or her executive and
administrative qualifications and educational background with special reference
to his or her actual experience in or his or her knowledge of accepted practice
in respect to the duties of the office hereinafter set forth.
   (C)   Removal from office. The Village Board may remove the Village
Administrator at any time by a majority vote of its members but shall continue
his or her salary for one month following this action if he or she has served
in that capacity for six months or more, or one-half month's salary if he or
she has served for less than six months.
(Ord. 2019-O-14, passed 6-4-19)
§ 31.046 COMPENSATION AND BOND.
   The Village Administrator shall receive such compensation as the Village
Board shall fix from time to time by ordinance or resolution. He or she shall
furnish a surety bond in the amount of $100,000 to be approved by the Village
Board, said bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of his or her
duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the village.
(Ord. 2019-O-14, passed 6-4-19)
§ 31.047 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Village Administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the
village, under the direction of the Mayor, who is the chief executive officer.
The Administrator may head one or more departments and shall be responsible to
the Mayor and the Village Board of Trustees for the proper administration of
all affairs of the village, excepting, however, such affairs or matters as the
Mayor and Village Board of Trustees may from time to time determine shall be
under their direct control and supervision. All provisions herein contained
shall be subject to the exceptions set forth in this section. To the ends
hereinbefore contemplated, but subject to the exceptions and qualifications
hereinbefore set forth, the Village Administrator shall have power and shall be
required to do the following:
   (A)   When necessary for the good of the village, reprimand any employee
and/or suspend said employee for a period of time up to and including three
working days without pay. This provision, however, is subject to any local
employment rules and practices presently or hereinafter enacted by the village
and any union rules or regulations presently or hereinafter accepted by the
village.
   (B)   Recommend appointments of village officers designated by state statute
or village ordinance; and also recommend the suspension or removal of the
following officers, employees and persons retained for services by the village:
Village Attorney; Treasurer; Chief of Police; Fire Chief; Director of Community
Development; Director of Emergency Management; Director of Parks and any others
which are by village ordinance, or applicable provision of the state statutes
all appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board of
Trustees.
   (C)   Annually prepare the budget in conjunction with the Finance Director
and submit it together with a message describing the important features and be
responsible for its administration after adoption.
   (D)   As of the end of the fiscal year, furnish a complete report of the
finances and administrative activities of the village for the preceding year.
   (E)   Keep the Village Board advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the village, and make such recommendations as he or she may deem
desirable.
   (F)   Recommend any changes to the wage policy ordinance's standard schedule
of pay for each appointive office and position in the village service,
including minimum, intermediate and maximum rates.
   (G)   From time to time, recommend adoption of such measures as he or she
may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the
community or for the improvement of administrative services.
   (H)   Recommend the creating, consolidating and combining of offices,
positions, departments or units of the administrative and executive departments
of the village.
   (I)   Attend all meetings of the Village Board unless excused therefrom and
take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Village Board. The
administrator shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings
of the Village Board.
   (J)   Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies and equipment for
which funds are provided in the budget; let contracts necessary for operation
or maintenance of village services for amounts up to and including $10,000,
that for a purchase of more than $10,000, he or she shall be required to
solicit three or more sealed bids, such bids shall be presented to the Board of
Trustees for approval or rejection. When three bids are not submitted by
competitive vendors, the Administrator may recommend waiver of the bidding
process under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-9-1 or any successor to that statute. No
purchase shall be made, contract let or obligation incurred for any item or
service which exceeds the current appropriation without a supplemental
appropriation by the Village Board. The Village Administrator may issue such
rules governing purchasing procedures within the administrative organization as
the Village Board shall approve.
   (K)   See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced.
   (L)   Investigate the affairs of any department or division under his or her
jurisdiction. Investigate all complaints in relation to matters under his or
her jurisdiction concerning the administration of the government of the
village, and in regard to service maintained by the Public Utilities in the
village, and see that all franchises, permits and privileges granted by the
village are faithfully observed.
   (M)   Devote his or her entire working time to the discharge of his or her
official duties.
   (N)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Village Board, not
inconsistent with the village ordinances.
   (O)   Perform in emergencies as follows:
      (1)   In case of accident, disaster or other circumstances creating a
public emergency, the Village Administrator, with approval of the Mayor or two
Village Trustees may award contracts and make purchases for the purpose of
meeting said emergency for amounts up to and including $10,000, and he or she
shall promptly file with the Village Clerk a certificate showing such emergency
and the necessity for such action, together with an itemized account for all
expenditures and request that these expenditures be ratified at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Village Board.
      (2)   In the event the public emergency described in division (O)(1)
above results in a catastrophic loss or need for expenditures of more than
$10,000, the Administrator shall consult with the Mayor (or in his or her
absence, the most senior Village Trustee available) and secure his or her
approval to the expenditures. A certificate shall promptly be filed with the
Village Clerk and the Village Board asked to ratify the expenditures as quickly
as possible, in a special meeting if necessitated by the scope of the
emergency.
   (P)   Coordinate with the Village Clerk a proper and complete agenda for
every Village Board meeting.
(Ord. 2019-O-14, passed 6-4-19)
TREASURER
§ 31.050 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the office of Village Treasurer, who shall be
appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees
as is provided by statute.
('79 Code, § 401)
§ 31.051 BOND.
   The Treasurer shall give a bond before entering upon his duties, in the sum
required by the Board of Trustees, but such bond shall not be less than the
amount required by law, with sureties to be approved by the Board. This bond
shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance by the Treasurer of the
Treasurer's duties, and shall be conditioned to indemnify the village for any
loss by reason of any neglect of duty or any act of the Treasurer.
('79 Code, § 401(1))
§ 31.052 DUTIES.
   The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by statute or
ordinance. The Treasurer shall receive all money paid into the village, either
directly from the person paying the money or from the hands of such other
officer or employees as may receive it, and the Treasurer shall pay out money
only on vouchers or orders properly signed by the Clerk.
('79 Code, § 401(2))
§ 31.053 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   The Treasurer shall deposit the village funds in such depositories as may be
selected from time to time by the Board of Trustees in the manner provided by
law. The Treasurer shall keep the deposit of village money separate and
distinct from his own money, and shall not make private or personal use of any
village money.
('79 Code, § 401(3))
§ 31.054 RECORDS.
   The Treasurer shall keep the records showing all money received, the source
from which it is received, and the purpose for which it is paid. He shall also
keep records at all times showing the financial status of the village.
('79 Code, § 401(4))
§ 31.055 ACCOUNTING.
   The Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be required by
statute or ordinance and shall keep them in the manner required by the
President and Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 401(5))
§ 31.056 REPORTS.
   The Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the Board of Trustees showing
the state of the finances of the village, of the budget, and the amount
received and spent during the month, which reports shall be filed. The
Treasurer shall make and publish a statement of cash and securities and a
statement of revenues and expenditures for the past fiscal year between the
July 1 and July 15 showing transactions as Treasurer during the preceding
fiscal year. The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants, bonds, or
orders filed or paid by him, and all vouchers, as required by statute or
ordinance.
('79 Code, § 401(6))
§ 31.057 DEPUTY TREASURER.
   There is hereby created the office of Deputy Village Treasurer, who shall be
appointed by the President and Board of Trustees as is the Treasurer. The
Deputy Treasurer shall give bond in the same manner as the Treasurer under §
31.051. The Deputy Treasurer shall be empowered to issue and sign checks
disbursing village funds in the place of, and in the absence from the village
of the Village Treasurer.
('79 Code, § 401(7))
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 31.065 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the office of Building Inspector. He shall be
appointed by the Village President by and with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 402)
§ 31.066 DUTIES.
   The Building Inspector shall enforce all ordinance provisions relating to
building and zoning and shall inspect all buildings or structures being erected
or altered as frequently as may be necessary to insure compliance with the
village ordinances. In addition thereto, he shall perform such other duties as
may be required of him by the President and the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 402(1))
§ 31.067 REPORTS.
   The Building Inspector shall report to the Board of Trustees every violation
of the ordinances of which he becomes cognizant, and a record of all building
permits issued and money received.
('79 Code, § 402(2))
§ 31.068 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE STOP ORDERS.
   The Building Inspector shall have the power to order all work stopped on the
construction, alteration, or repair of any building or structure in the village
when such work is being done in violation of any provision of any ordinance
relating thereto, or in violation of the zoning ordinance. Work shall not be
resumed after the issuance of such an order except on the written permission of
the Inspector or by order of the Village President; however, if the stop order
is an oral one it shall be followed by a written stop order within eight hours.
Such written stop orders may be served by any police officer, and may be served
by posting on the premises affected in the absence of personal service.
('79 Code, § 402(3)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.069 ENTRY POWERS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall have the power to make or cause entry to
be made into any building or premises other than a private residence where the
work of altering, repairing, or constructing any building or structure is going
on for the purpose of making inspections at any reasonable hour. ('79 Code, §
402(4))
   (B)   With respect to private residences, if consent to entry is not given,
the Building Inspector may not enter paid residence without a warrant except in
those situations presenting immediate public hazard or danger.
ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR
§ 31.075 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Electrical Inspector. The person
chosen to fill the office of Electrical Inspector shall be a competent
electrician of good moral character who shall have had at least two years of
experience as a journeyman in the practice of his trade or two years of
training in a recognized college of electrical engineering and, in addition
thereto, one year of practical experience in electrical construction. He shall
also be well versed in approved methods of electrical construction for safety
to life and property, the statutes of the state relating to electrical work,
the rules and regulations issued by the State Fire Marshal under the authority
of state law, the Building Officials Code Administrators, the National
Electrical Code, and other installation and safety rules and standards as are
approved by the American Engineering Standards Association.
   (B)   However, should it not be possible to obtain any person with the
aforementioned qualifications, the President shall appoint the Building
Commissioner or such other person, at his discretion, who shall be qualified to
fill the office of Electrical Inspector.
('79 Code, § 403)
§ 31.076 POWERS.
   The Electrical Inspector shall have the right during reasonable hours to
enter any building in the discharge of his official duties, or for the purpose
of making any inspection or test of the installation or alteration of
electrical equipment contained therein. He shall also have the authority to
cause the turning off of any wire where such electrical currents are dangerous
to life or property or may interfere with the work of the Fire Department.
('79 Code, § 403(1))
§ 31.077 INSPECTIONS.
   The Electrical Inspector shall make all inspections necessary to insure
compliance with the village ordinances and state statutes. These inspections
shall be made at reasonable times and the Inspector shall make reasonable rules
and regulations governing the time for inspections. It shall be unlawful to
cover up any electrical installation without having had it first inspected,
regardless of whether or not the building is a prefabricated structure.
('79 Code, § 403(2))
§ 31.078 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF APPROVAL.
   The Electrical Inspector shall give a certificate of approval to the owner
or person in charge of all premises which he shall inspect if he determines
that the electrical apparatus and wiring therein fully comply with the village
ordinances.
('79 Code, § 403(3))
PLUMBING INSPECTOR
§ 31.085 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the office of Plumbing Inspector. He shall be
appointed by the Village President by and with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees and must be a licensed plumber.
('79 Code, § 404)
§ 31.086 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Plumbing Inspector and he is hereby empowered to
enforce all city ordinances relating to the installation, care, and standards
of plumbing. He shall make all inspections and tests which may be necessary in
the performance of his duties.
('79 Code, § 404(1))
§ 31.087 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE STOP ORDERS.
   Whenever the Plumbing Inspector shall find plumbing work being done in
violation of the village ordinances, the State Plumbing Code, or the Building
Officials Code Administrators, he shall have the power to order the work
stopped until the requirements are satisfied. It shall be unlawful to continue
any such work after such a stop order has been issued, except upon the written
permission of the Village President or the Plumbing Inspector. However, where
such stop order is made orally, it shall be followed by a written order within
eight hours.
('79 Code, § 404(2)) Penalty, see §
10.99
HEALTH OFFICER
§ 31.095 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the office of Health Officer, an executive officer
of the village. He shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 405)
Cross-reference:
   For provisions concerning the Board of Health, see §§
32.20 through
32.23
§ 31.096 DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to enforce all ordinances
and laws containing provisions for the protection of public health; to make
inspection of foodstuffs and of the premises used for storing or selling of
provisions as may be provided by ordinance; and to perform such other duties
and functions as may be required by statute or ordinance.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall enforce all the rules and orders of the Board
of Trustees and shall attend the meetings of said Board when requested to do so
by the Presiding Officer.
('79 Code, § 405(1))
§ 31.097 REPORTS.
   The Health Officer shall make such reports to the Board of Trustees as may
be required. He shall also make recommendations for rulings, orders, or
ordinances respecting the public health whenever
he is requested to do so, or whenever he deems it advisable or necessary.
('79 Code, § 405(2))
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 31.105 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the position of Superintendent of Public Works, who
shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees, and who shall hold such position during the pleasure of said
Village President or for such period as may be agreed to by the Village
President. However, no such period shall in any event extend beyond the April
30 immediately following. Neither the Superintendent of Public Works nor any
employee of the Department of Public Works shall be an elected officer of the
village.
('79 Code, § 406)
§ 31.106 DUTIES; ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall have the care and custody of
the village water supply system, and all equipment, pipes, and machinery
pertaining thereto. He shall also have the care of public streets, alleys,
sidewalks, and other public ways in the village and shall have supervision over
all work thereon. ('79 Code, § 406(1))
   (B)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall be charged with and see to
the enforcement of all ordinances and provisions of the village relating to the
water supply system and the sewer system, where no provision to the contrary is
made. He shall also be charged with the enforcement of all ordinances
pertaining to such public property and places (except traffic accidents) and is
hereby authorized to enforce such ordinances. ('79 Code, § 406(2))
§ 31.107 OFFICES ABOLISHED.
   The offices of Superintendent of Waterworks and Superintendent of Streets
are terminated, abolished, and declared vacant. The words "Superintendent of
Waterworks" or the words "Superintendent of Streets" whenever used in the
future shall be held to mean "Superintendent of Public Works".
('79 Code, § 406(3))
POLICE CHAPLAIN
§ 31.115 APPOINTMENT.
   The Police Chaplain shall be appointed by the President by and with the
consent of the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 407)
§ 31.116 ELIGIBILITY.
   A person to be eligible for appointment as Police Chaplain must be an
ordained minister, priest or rabbi.
('79 Code, § 407(1)) (Ord. 1989-0-12, passed 5-2-89)
§ 31.117 DUTIES.
   The Police Chaplain shall minister to the spiritual needs of the Police
Department, Fire Department, and other village offices, and shall be subject to
being called upon to minister to the spiritual needs of persons injured in
serious accidents and catastrophes, as well as arrested persons in need of such
aid.
('79 Code, § 407(2))
§ 31.118 COMPENSATION.
   The Police Chaplain shall serve without compensation.
('79 Code, § 407(3))
RECREATION DIRECTOR
§ 31.125 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the office of Recreation Director for the village.
He shall be appointed by the Village President by and with the consent of the
Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 408)
§ 31.126 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Recreation Director shall be appointed to serve a term of one year.
However, such term shall not extend beyond the term of office of the appointing
Village President.
('79 Code, § 408(1))
§ 31.127 RESIDENCE.
   The Recreation Director shall be a resident of the village.
('79 Code, § 408(2))
§ 31.128 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Recreation Director shall directly control the use of all
municipal recreation facilities, maintain a schedule of activities that are to
be held on the municipal recreation facilities, and remove
from the municipal recreation facilities any person violating the rules
governing the use of such facilities.
   (B)   The Recreation Director shall be directly responsible to the
chairperson of the Committee for Municipal Buildings and Grounds and to the
Village President.
   (C)   The Recreation Director shall not be personally responsible for any
accident or damage occurring to a person or their property while on or near the
recreational facility.
   (D)   The Recreation Director shall not be responsible for the maintenance
or improvement of the recreational facilities under his control, but shall
offer suggestions for improvement.
('79 Code, § 408(3))
VILLAGE COLLECTOR
§ 31.130 CREATION.
   There is hereby created the office of Village Collector, who shall be
appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees
as is provided by statue.
(Ord. 1997-13, passed 7-1-97)
§ 31.131 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of this office, the Village Collector shall
execute a bond in such amount as may be fixed by the Corporate Authorities by
resolution or ordinance and such bond shall be approved by the Corporate
Authorities, conditioned upon the faithful performance of these duties. The
cost of the bond is to be paid by the village.
(Ord. 1997-13, passed 7-1-97)
§ 31.132 DUTIES.
   The Collector shall be the designated agent of the village for the receipt
of money, lands, chattels or choses in action. Upon receipt of cash, checks or
other negotiable instruments, the Collector shall turn over all such money or
instruments received on behalf of the village to the Village Treasurer promptly
upon receipt of same. Upon receipt of any other things of value, the Collector
shall promptly inform the Mayor and the Board of Trustees of the same, and to
the extent possible, given the nature of the items or title to the lands to the
Mayor and the Board of Trustees at that time. It shall further be the duty of
the Collector to give a statement to the Treasurer as to the source and value
of all such receipts, whether in cash or in kind. At the time of receipt of any
funds, lands, chattels or choses in action, and from whatever source they may
come, the Collector shall promptly issue a receipt to the provider of the
funds, lands, chattels or choses in action.
(Ord. 1997-13, passed 7-1-97)
§ 31.133 ACCOUNTING.
   The Collector shall keep accounts showing all money received and the source
and disposition thereof, and such other accounts as may be required by statute
or ordinance.
(Ord. 1997-13, passed 7-1-97)
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
§ 31.140 CREATION.
   There is hereby created the office of Prosecuting Attorney for the village.
(Ord. 1994-0-4, passed 5-3-94)
§ 31.141 LICENSED TO PRACTICE LAW IN STATE; INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR.
   The Prosecuting Attorney shall be licensed to practice law in the state and
shall have the status of independent contractor to provide legal services to
the village.
(Ord. 1994-0-4, passed 5-3-94)
§ 31.142 APPOINTMENT.
   The Prosecuting Attorney for the village shall be appointed upon motion of
the President of the Board of Trustees, and upon the approval of the majority
of the votes cast by the Board of Trustees in favor of said motion. Should the
President of the Board of Trustees either fail to appoint the Prosecuting
Attorney, or if said appointment is not approved by the majority of the Board
of Trustees, then the Prosecuting Attorney shall be appointed upon motion of
any Trustee of the Board of Trustees, and upon approval of the majority of the
votes cast by the Board of Trustees for said motion.
(Ord. 1994-0-4, passed 5-3-94)
§ 31.143 TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The initial term for the office of Prosecuting Attorney shall begin
upon appointment and approval by the Board of Trustees and shall terminate upon
the first Tuesday of May, 1994. The term thereafter for the office of the
Prosecuting Attorney for the village shall be for one year and shall expire
upon the first Tuesday of each May.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may remove the Village Prosecutor at any time
upon motion and approval by a majority of two-thirds of the members of the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1994-0-4, passed 5-3-94)
§ 31.144 VACANCY.
   Should a vacancy in the office of Prosecuting Attorney for the village
occur, either by the expiration of the term of Prosecuting Attorney or
resignation of the Prosecuting Attorney, then the tenured Prosecuting Attorney
shall continue in office until his or her successor is qualified by the Board
of Trustees.
(Ord. 1994-0-4, passed 5-3-94)
§ 31.145 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Prosecuting Attorney for the village to:
   (A)   To prosecute all traffic matters and all ordinance violations brought
for prosecution by the Village Police Department.
   (B)   Provide legal advice to the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Provide legal advice to officers of the Police Department as directed
by the Chief of Police regarding traffic matters.
   (D)   Be available to provide advice to the Police Department as needed,
including hours other than regular business hours.
   (E)   Provide accounting, as requested, to the Chief of Police for all
billable hours.
   (F)   To prosecute all matters to be heard before the Board of Police
Commissioners.
(Ord. 1994-0-4, passed 5-3-94)
CODE OF ETHICS FOR VILLAGE OFFICIALS
§ 31.150 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. Any interest which shall yield, directly or indirectly,
a monetary or other material benefit (other than the duly authorized salary or
compensation for his services to the village) to the official or employee or to
any person employing or retaining the services of the official or employee, as
provided by state statutes.
   OFFICIAL or EMPLOYEE. Any person elected or appointed to, or employed or
retained by any public office or public body of the village, whether paid or
unpaid and whether part-time or full-time.
   PERSONAL INTEREST. Any interest arising from blood or marriage
relationships, or from close business or political associations, whether or not
any financial interest is involved.
   PUBLIC BODY. Any agency, board, body, commission or committee, department,
or office of the village.
('79 Code, § 412(2))
§ 31.151 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   The public judges its government by the way public officials and
employees conduct themselves in the post to which they are elected or
appointed. The people have a right to expect that every public official and
employee will conduct himself in a manner that will tend to preserve public
confidence in and respect for the government he represents.
   (B)   Such confidence and respect can best be promoted if every public
official and employee, whether paid or unpaid, whether elected or appointed,
will uniformly:
      (1)   Treat all citizens with courtesy, impartiality, fairness, and
equality under the law; and
      (2)   Avoid both actual and potential conflicts between his private self-
interest and the public interest.
('79 Code, § 412(1))
§ 31.152 FAIR AND EQUAL TREATMENT.
   (A)   No official or employee shall grant or make available to any person
any consideration, treatment, advantage, or favor beyond that which is the
general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
   (B)   No official or employee shall request, use, or permit the use of any
publicly-owned or publicly- supported property, vehicle, equipment, labor, or
service for the personal convenience or the private advantage of himself or any
other person. This shall not be deemed to prohibit an official or employee from
requesting, using, or permitting the use of such publicly-owned or publicly-
supported property, vehicle, equipment, material, labor, or service which it is
the general practice to make available to the public at large, or which is
provided as a matter of stated public policy for the use of officials and
employees in the conduct of official business.
('79 Code, § 412(3))
§ 31.153 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No official or employee, either on his own behalf or on the behalf of
any other person, shall have any financial or personal interest in any business
or transaction with any public body as provided by state statutes.
   (B)   Whenever the performance of his official duties shall require any
official or employee to deliberate and vote on any matter involving his
financial or personal interest, he shall publicly disclose the nature and
extent of such interest and disqualify himself from participating in the
deliberation as well as the voting.
   (C)   No official or employee shall engage in private employment with, or
render services for any private person who has business transactions with any
public body unless he shall first make full public disclosure of the nature and
extent of such employment or services.
   (D)   No official or employee shall, without prior formal authorization of
the public body having jurisdiction, disclose any confidential information
concerning any other official or employee, any other person, or any property or
governmental affairs of the village.
   (E)   Whether or not it shall involve disclosure, no official or employee
shall use or permit the use of any such confidential information to advance the
financial or personal interest of himself or any other person.
   (F)   No elected official shall appoint or vote for appointment of any
person related to him by blood or marriage to any clerkship, office, position,
employment, or duty when the salary, wages, pay, or compensation is to be paid
out of public funds.
('79 Code, § 412(4))
SEXUAL HARASSMENT PROHIBITION POLICY
§ 31.160 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The regulations of Public Act 100-0554 (hereinafter referred to as the "Act"
in this subchapter), are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the
elected officials, officers and employees of the village to the extent required
by the Act.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18)
§ 31.161 POLICY ADOPTED.
   As required by the Act, the following policy provisions (§§
31.160 -
31.170) are hereby adopted, and are expressly applicable to all elected
officials, officers and employees of the village.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18)
§ 31.162 PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have
a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the Village of Winthrop Harbor to
prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official, municipal agent,
municipal employee or municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender.
All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal
agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person,
regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.163 DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct
of a sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual's employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes, but is not
necessarily limited to:
      (1)   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      (2)   Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      (3)   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      (4)   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      (5)   Textual/electronic: "sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   (C)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some forms of sexual harassment
are subtler and depend, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person." The village administration, in enforcing
this subchapter will utilize that same standard.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18)
§ 31.164 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   (B)   However, persons wishing to make a report of sexual harassment and who
are uncomfortable with reporting it within the ordinary chain of command may
(for this sole purpose) ignore the chain of command and make the report with
any supervisory person described in this section, and may do so anonymously.
This provision is specifically intended to include instances where the alleged
harasser holds a supervisory position over the reporting person.
   (C)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   (a)   Contact with supervisory personnel. At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
director of human resources, an ethics officer, the Village Administrator, or
the Mayor.
         (b)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      (3)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
   (D)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place) including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (E)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18; Am. Ord. 2018-O-17, passed 11-20-18)
§ 31.165 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT
ALLEGATIONS.
   (A)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee's:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10)
provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs
in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state agency, or
other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)), an
employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a
court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or
committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a state or federal
law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an
employee for disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency,
where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation. (ILCS Ch.
740, Act 174, § 15(b)).
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-
101), it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to
conspire, to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which
he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge, due within 180 days (IDHR) or 300 days (EEOC) of the
alleged retaliation.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.166 CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or
the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 30, § 5-65,
may be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.167 CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT.
   (A)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
   (B)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the state police, a
state's attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.168 EXISTING ORDINANCES OR POLICIES.
   This subchapter shall be deemed to supersede any and all existing ordinances
or policies which regulate the conduct of village elected officials, officers
or employees, but only to the extent of the regulations set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18)
§ 31.169 FUTURE AMENDMENTS.
   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective date of
this subchapter shall be incorporated into this subchapter by reference and
shall be applicable to the regulated activities. However, any amendment that
makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this subchapter by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18)
§ 31.170 FUTURE ACTS DEEMED UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
   (A)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this subchapter shall be repealed as of the date that the
Illinois Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further
appeals or rehearings. This subchapter shall be deemed repealed without further
action by the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found
unconstitutional by the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (B)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this subchapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this subchapter relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the village.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18)
§ 31.999 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
31.160 through
31.170 for which no other penalty is specified shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750.
(Ord. 2018-O-1, passed 1-16-18)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS; COMMITTEES
Section
Planning and Zoning Board
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   Jurisdiction; authority; powers and duties
   
32.04   Meetings; rules of procedure
   
32.05   Specific functions and due process
   
32.06   Finality of decisions
   
32.07   Time limitations on variances
   
32.08   Definitions
Board of Health
   
32.20   Establishment
   
32.21   Duties
   
32.22   Quarantine and vaccination
   
32.23   Violation of Board order or notice
Board of Local Improvements
   
32.30   Establishment
   
32.31   Function
   
32.32   Records
Americans with Disabilities Act Committee
   
32.45   Establishment
   
32.46   Purpose and scope
   
32.47   Appointment
   
32.48   Meetings
   
32.49   Chairperson
   
32.50   Authority
Recreation Board
   
32.60   Establishment
   
32.61   Membership
   
32.62   Jurisdiction; authority, powers and duties
   
32.63   Meetings and general rules of procedure
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Planning and Zoning Board, described hereafter
as the "PZB".
(Ord. 1992-O-20, passed 10-6-92; Am. Ord. 2000-O-6, passed 5-16-00)
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The PZB shall consist of seven members. Those persons serving as
members of the PZB at the time of the enactment of this section shall retain
their positions for the terms previously established. At the conclusion of each
member's term, a successor to each of them shall be appointed by the Village
President and shall serve a term of five years. One member of the PZB shall be
designated as Chairperson, but shall retain full voting rights in such
position. It shall be the Chairperson's duty to preside over the public
hearings and meetings of the PZB.
   (B)   The Village President shall have the power to remove any member of the
PZB for cause and after a public hearing.
   (C)   Each member of the PZB shall be paid $20 for each public hearing
attended, provided that the Chairperson shall receive $30 for each such public
hearing.
(Ord. 1992-O-20, passed 10-6-92; Am. Ord. 2000-O-6, passed 5-16-00)
§ 32.03 JURISDICTION; AUTHORITY; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The PZB shall have the following authority, powers and duties, to be
exercised in conformity with the laws of the State of Illinois and the
Municipal Code of Winthrop Harbor, Illinois.
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator under the zoning code in the
manner and subject to the standards set out in Chapter
154 of this Code, and necessary matters as directed by Chapters
152 and
153 for subdivision controls and rural subdivision controls of this Code.
   (B)   To hear and pass upon application for variations from the regulations
and restrictions imposed by the zoning code in the manner and subject to the
standards set out in Chapter
154, as directed by Chapters
152 and
153 of this code.
   (C)   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under the zoning code, subdivision and rural subdivision
codes.
   (D)   To recommend changes from time to time in the zoning code, subdivision
and rural subdivision codes.
   (E)   To consider requests for amendments, special uses, and approval of
preannexation agreements, preliminary and final plats, and unified residential
developments in accordance with the procedures designated herein and in
Chapters
152 through
154 of this Code, to make findings and recommendations thereon to the Board of
Trustees.
   (F)   To prepare and recommend to the Village President and Board of
Trustees, from time to time, plans for specific improvements in pursuance of
the zoning code, subdivision and rural subdivision codes.
   (G)   To give aid to the village officials charged with direction of
projects for improvement embraced within the zoning code, to further the making
of these projects and, generally, promote the realization of the zoning code.
   (H)   To recommend reasonable requirements within the scope of the zoning,
subdivision and rural subdivision codes in reference to streets, alleys, public
grounds and improvements in general in subdivided lands within the corporate
limits and in the contiguous territory outside and distant not more than one
and one-half miles from the corporate limits of the village, insofar as the
same are not included in any other city, village, incorporated town or other
state.
   (I)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to the PZB's
activities for the general purpose of assuring public understanding.
   (J)   To recommend, maintain and implement the village's comprehensive plan.
   (K)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
code of ordinances, by the zoning, subdivision and rural subdivision code, and
as may be conferred by the Village President and simple majority of the Board
of Trustees.
(Ord. 1992-O-20, passed 10-6-92; Am. Ord. 2000-O-6, passed 5-16-00; Am. Ord.
2007-O-17, passed 6-26-07)
§ 32.04 MEETINGS AND RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All meetings of the PZB shall be held at the call of the Chairperson
and at such times as the PZB may determine.
   (B)   All hearings required by the PZB shall be open to the public. No
hearing shall be conducted without a quorum present, which shall consist of a
simple majority of the PZB members. Any person may appear and testify at a
hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. All
testimony shall be given under oath. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence,
the acting Chairperson, shall administer oaths and may compel the attendance of
witnesses through the use of subpoena.
   (C)   The Chairperson shall have the power to retain a Secretary, who shall
attend the public meetings and shall keep minutes of the PZB's proceedings.
These minutes shall be open at all times to public inspections after review and
approval by the PZB, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact. The Secretary shall also keep
records of all the PZB's hearings and other official actions. The Secretary
shall be paid $80 for attending and recording the minutes of each meeting of
the PZB.
   (D)   Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, or
determination by the PZB, shall be filed immediately in the village office and
shall be a public record. The PZB shall adopt and publish its own rules of
procedure, not in conflict with the zoning, subdivision and rural subdivision
codes or with applicable state statutes.
   (E)   The PZB shall file an annual report with the Board of Trustees,
setting forth its recommendations, and such report shall be submitted on or
before the last day of January of each year.
   (F)   Remote attendance at Planning and Zoning Board meeting.
      (1)   Policy considerations. It is the policy of the Village of Winthrop
Harbor that the presence of the appointed officials at all public meetings is
highly desirable. The public's ability to view actions being taken by appointed
officials and to make meaningful input into the decision-making process will be
materially impaired by the lack of direct access to appointed officials in the
public forum provided by meetings of the Planning and Zoning Board.
Accordingly, the provisions for remote attendance at meetings set forth in this
section are intended to provide for the public's good, not necessarily for the
convenience or ease of the appointed officials. As such, this policy should be
used sparingly and in strict conformance with the provisions described herein.
      (2)   Definitions. For purposes of this policy, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
         (a)   ATTEND BY ELECTRONIC MEANS. Attending by audio or video
conference.
         (b)   MEETING. Any gathering, whether in person or by video or audio
conference, telephone call, electronic means (such as, without limitation
electronic mail, electronic chat, and instant messaging), or other means of
contemporaneous interactive communications, of a majority of a quorum of the
members of the Planning and Zoning Board held for the purposes of discussing
public business.
         (c)   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building or portion thereof owned or leased
by any public body.
      (3)   Electronic participation.
         (a)   If a quorum of the members of the Planning and Zoning Board is
physically present as required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 7, a majority of those
members present may allow a member to attend the meeting by means of video or
audio conference if the member is prevented from physically attending because
of the following exclusive reasons and no others:
            1.   Personal illness or disability;
            2.   Employment purposes;
            3.   Business of the public body; or
            4.   A family or other emergency.
      (4)   Notification requirements. If a member wishes to attend a meeting
by audio or video conference, then the member must notify the Recording
Secretary before the meeting unless such advance notice is impractical.
      (5)   Consideration of request for electronic participation.
         (a)   Consideration of a member's request for electronic participation
shall occur under the agenda item titled "Absent Members Wishing to Attend
Remotely".
         (b)   Any member physically present may state an objection to allowing
remote attendance. In the absence of any such objection, the remote attendance
shall be deemed to be allowed without objection.
         (c)   Upon the making of an objection, those members physically
present shall consider whether any such request meets the requirements of
division (F)(3), and vote regarding whether such member may be allowed to
participate electronically or whether the objection should be upheld.
         (d)   An objection shall be upheld only where there is an affirmative
majority vote of the members physically present.
         (e)   Any member requesting to attend the meeting by electronic means
may participate in the debate on such question but may not vote on the approval
of their own request.
         (f)   If more than one member requests to attend the meeting by
electronic means, such requests will be considered in the order in which
notification was received by the Recording Secretary as required in division
(F)(4).
         (g)   Any member whose request to attend the meeting by electronic
means is approved may not vote on the approval of any other member's request
considered during that meeting, but may participate in any debate on the
question.
         (h)   Any member whose request for attendance by electronic means is
denied may continue to listen to and/or view the meeting via electronic means,
but may only participate to the same extent in which a member of the public
physically present at the meeting could participate.
(Ord. 1992-O-20, passed 10-6-92; Am. Ord. 2000-O-6, passed 5-16-00; Am. Ord.
2020-O-2, passed 1-21-20)
§ 32.05 SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS AND DUE PROCESS.
   Due to the multiple functions assigned to the PZB, certain functions shall
be subject to the following provisions, all of which are designed to give due
process of law to the persons applying to the PZB for relief, or who are or
could be affected by its decisions or recommendations, taking into
consideration the needs and interests of the citizens of the entire village.
   (A)   Appeals.
      (1)   Scope of appeals. An appeal may be taken to the PZB by any person,
firm or corporation, or by an officer, department, board, or bureau affected by
a decision of the office of the Zoning Administrator relative to the
interpretation or application of any provision of Chapters
152,
153 or
154 of this Code.
      (2)   Notice of appeal. Such appeal shall be taken by filing a notice of
appeal within the office of the Zoning Administrator within 35 days after the
date of the decision from which the appeal is taken. The notice of appeal shall
specify the grounds for the appeal. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith
transmit to the PZB all of the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
      (3)   Procedure.
         (a)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the PZB,
after notice of appeal has been filed with the Administrator, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in the Administrator's opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case the proceedings shall
not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by
the PZB or by a court of record on application, on notice to the Zoning
Administrator and on due cause shown.
         (b)   The PZB shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing
of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the interested parties, and shall
render a written decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay.
      (4)   Decisions. The PZB may affirm or reverse, wholly or in part, or may
modify the order, requirements, decision, or determination appealed from, and
to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is
taken. The concurring vote of four members of the PZB shall be necessary to
reverse any order, decision, or determination of the Zoning Administrator, or
any other official of the village, under this chapter.
      (5)   Records of appeals. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain
complete records of all actions of the PZB relative to appeals, and shall keep
the Board of Trustees informed on a current basis of the disposition of each
case.
   (B)   Variations. Where, in a specific case, an application for a variation
is made in writing to the PZB, explaining that because of certain exceptional
conditions peculiar to the applicant's property or its environment, strict
application of the regulations of the zoning code would result in practical
difficulties or undue hardship upon the owner, the PZB shall then consider the
case at a public hearing. Notice and requirements of the PZB's consideration
shall be followed in the manner set forth hereinafter.
      (1)   Purpose. The PZB shall determine and vary the regulations of this
chapter in harmony with their general purpose and intent, giving due
consideration for the needs and interests of the entire village, for submission
to the Board of Trustees, only in the specific instances hereinafter set forth,
and then only when the PZB has made findings of fact based upon the standards
hereinafter prescribed, supporting the conclusion that the application of the
strict letter of the regulations of this chapter will create practical
difficulties or particular hardship for the owner, lessee, or occupant of land,
buildings, or other structures as is described more fully hereinbelow.
      (2)   Application; notice of hearing. An application for a variation
shall be filed with the office of the Zoning Administrator, who shall forward a
copy of same to the Chairperson or Secretary of the PZB without delay. The
application shall contain such information as the Board may, from time to time,
by rule provide. No more than 60 days after the filing of such application, a
hearing shall be held on the application. Notice of such hearing shall be
published at least once, not more than 30 or less than 15 days before the
hearing, in one or more newspapers published within the village, or if no
newspaper is published therein, then in one or more newspapers with a general
circulation within the village. The notice shall contain the date, time, and
place of the hearing, the street address or common description of the property
involved, and a brief statement of the relief sought. In addition to
publication, notice in writing with all particulars as hereinabove set forth
shall be mailed return receipt requested to such owners abutting the property
for which a variation is sought. The published notice may be supplemented by
such additional form of notice as the PZB by rule may provide. All notices
required hereunder shall be prepared, mailed, published and paid for by the
applicant.
      (3)   Standards for variations.
         (a)   The PZB shall not recommend to the Board of Trustees a variance
of the regulations of
Chapter 154 unless it shall, in each specific case, make findings of fact,
based upon the evidence presented to it, that support the following
conclusions:
            1.   The particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
condition of the specific property involved would result in a practical
difficulty or particular hardship upon or for the owner, lessee, or occupant,
as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of the
regulations were carried out;
            2.   The conditions upon which the petition for a variation is
based are unique and would not be generally applicable to other property within
the same zoning classification;
            3.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property;
            4.   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property;
            5.   The granting of the variation will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or
improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located;
            6.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion in
the public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public
safety, or substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood.
         (b)   The PZB may impose such conditions and restrictions upon the
premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary to comply with the
standards set out in this section to reduce or mitigate the injurious effect of
such variation upon other property in the neighborhood, and better to carry out
the general intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-O-6, passed 5-16-00; Am. Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord.
2014-O-7, passed 5-6-14)
§ 32.06 FINALITY OF DECISIONS.
   (A)   All decisions and findings of the PZB on an appeal or upon an
application for a variation after a hearing shall be submitted to the Board of
Trustees. The Board of Trustees, at their next regularly scheduled meeting, or
at such other date as they may by motion set, shall act without further public
hearing and may adopt or reject any proposed variation or appeal. The Board of
Trustees may also refer the matter back to the PZB for further consideration.
   (B)   Any proposed variation which fails to receive the approval of the PZB
shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of two-thirds of all Trustees
of the Village. There shall be no similar limitation or supermajority required
with respect to any other matter referred, recommended or passed in any other
way to the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation making application or appeal may
withdraw his or her petition, application or appeal at any time prior to final
decision of the Board of Trustees, provided that any such application or appeal
shall not be re-filed until at least six months have passed after the
withdrawal.
(Ord. 2000-O-6, passed 5-16-00)
§ 32.07 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VARIANCES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, all variances
granted to any person, corporation or other entity after the effective date of
this section from the zoning provisions of this Code shall automatically lapse
unless the physical construction of the improvements for which the variance was
sought has begun within six months next following grant of the variance
pursuant to a valid building permit issued by this village.
   (B)   All variances granted prior to the effective date of this section
shall automatically lapse one year after this section becomes effective.
   (C)   Any person, corporation or other entity who has received or is seeking
a variance, but cannot or is unlikely to be able to obtain a building permit
and commence construction within the time period that the variance is or would
be in effect may petition the Village Board to extend the same, and in its sole
discretion, the Village Board may extend the variance upon such terms as it
deems fit for good cause shown, provided that any hearing for extension shall
be accompanied by notification to abutting and adjoining property owners as
required for a variance in the first instance.
(Ord. 200-O-17, passed 10-17-00)
§ 32.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of the consideration of issues presented to the PZB, the
following terms shall have the following meanings:
   HARDSHIP, PARTICULAR. A significant difficulty or burden imposed by the
requirements of the ordinance or code provision(s) from which a variance is
sought resulting from conditions beyond the control of the property owner, and
compliance with such requirements would achieve no discernible public benefit.
Whether a hardship exists in a given case or petition is a question of fact for
determination by the PZB based on the evidence presented by the property owner.
(Ord. 2015-O-20, passed 8-18-15)
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the Board of Health for the village. The Board of
Health shall consist of three members who shall be appointed by the President
by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, unless it is
determined that the responsibility for public health in the village shall be
handled by the Lake County Health Department.
('79 Code, § 703)
Cross-reference:
   For provisions concerning the Health Officer, see §§
31.095 through
31.097
§ 32.21 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall perform the duties set forth in §
31.096, and as hereafter mentioned. ('79 Code, § 703(1))
   (B)   The Board of Health shall have the powers and perform the duties
assigned to it by statute or ordi nance. It shall be the duty of the Board of
Health to enforce all ordinances of the village and the county which relate to
public health or to nuisances.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall make all necessary rules and regulations for
the protection of the health of the village, to guard against the spread of
contagious diseases, and to prevent by necessary rules the induction of
diseases, contagious or otherwise, within the corporate limits of the village.
('79 Code, § 703(2))
§ 32.22 QUARANTINE AND VACCINATION.
   The Board of Health is hereby authorized to make such reasonable rules as
may be necessary regarding quarantine and vaccination for the prevention of the
spread of contagious diseases, and to quarantine premises where such diseases
occur for such time as may be necessary to protect the public health.
('79 Code, § 703(3))
§ 32.23 VIOLATION OF BOARD ORDER OR NOTICE.
   No person shall violate or refuse to obey any order of the Board of Health
or destroy, mutilate, or conceal any notice posted by or under the authority of
the Board.
('79 Code, § 703(4)) Penalty, see §
10.99
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 32.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Board of Local Improvements for the village,
which shall consist of all of the members of the Board of Trustees and the
Village President. The Village President shall be the President of the Board of
Local Improvements, and the Board shall select one of its members to be the
Secretary.
('79 Code, § 704)
§ 32.31 FUNCTION.
   The Board of Local Improvements shall meet at such times and places as it
may designate, and shall have the powers and duties assigned to it by statute
or ordinance. Every improvement to be paid for by special assessment or special
taxation shall be initiated by the action of the Board of Local Improvements as
required by law.
('79 Code, § 704(1))
§ 32.32 RECORDS.
   The Board of Local Improvements shall keep or cause to be kept adequate
records of all work undertaken by it, showing the work undertaken, the work
accomplished, the expenditures made, and the amount of money received.
('79 Code, § 704(2))
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT COMMITTEE
§ 32.45 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a committee to be referred to as the Americans
with Disabilities Act Committee.
(Ord. 1992-O-28, passed 11-3-92)
§ 32.46 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose and scope of the Committee will be to assess and evaluate
the village programs and facilities relative to the requirements of the ADA,
specifically those regulated by Title II and III of the ADA. The Committee
shall serve as a resource for information on ADA concerns and questions from
the elected officials and staff. The Committee shall also utilize its efforts
to develop and propose modifications to existing programs and services, as well
as to recommend new programs, and shall not be limited by the minimum
requirements of the ADA. The Committee may also recommend educational programs
for village officials, citizens and the business community.
   (B)   The Committee shall submit written findings of fact and
recommendations to the Trustee representative on the Committee, who shall then
refer same to the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1992-O-28, passed 11-3-92)
§ 32.47 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Members of this Committee shall be appointed by the Village President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   This Committee shall be made up of the following members at a minimum,
each serving a two- year term:
      (1)   One Trustee, who shall serve as a liaison to the Board of Trustees.
If more than one Trustee serves on the Committee, those Trustees so serving
shall choose the liaison.
      (2)   The designated ADA Coordinator for the village.
      (3)   The Building/Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   One resident of the village who shall be disabled as defined by the
ADA.
      (5)   One resident of the village who is not disabled as defined by the
ADA.
      (6)   One representative of the village business community.
(Ord. 1992-O-28, passed 11-3-92)
§ 32.48 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Committee shall meet at least two times per year and all meetings
shall be held in a location which is accessible to the disabled. All meetings
shall be posted and shall be open to the public.
   (B)   A quorum will be defined as a majority of the membership. Meetings
will be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
(Ord. 1992-O-28, passed 11-3-92)
§ 32.49 CHAIRPERSON.
   The members of the Committee shall elect a Chairperson to serve in this
capacity for a one-year term. The Chairperson shall not be an elected official.
(Ord. 1992-O-28, passed 11-3-92)
§ 32.50 AUTHORITY.
   The Committee shall have no authority to obligate the village for any
expenditures.
(Ord. 1992-O-28, passed 11-3-92)
RECREATION BOARD
§ 32.60 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Recreation Board to act in an advisory
capacity to the Mayor and Board of Trustees on all issues concerning recreation
programs, parks, park buildings, athletic facilities, grounds and equipment.
(Ord. 2001-O-8, passed 5-1-01; Am. Ord. 2002-O-26, passed 7-2-02)
§ 32.61 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Recreation Board shall consist of seven members.
   (B)   The Mayor shall initially appoint persons to serve as members of the
Recreation Board after enactment of this section with the approval by the Board
of Trustees for three-year staggered terms as follows: Two members shall be
appointed to a three-year term; two members shall be appointed to a two- year
term; and three members shall be appointed to a one-year term. At the
expiration of each term, or for vacancies occurring before the completion of a
term, the Mayor shall make subsequent appointments for three-year terms with
the approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   One member of the Recreation Board shall be designated as Chairperson,
but shall retain full voting rights in such position. It shall be the
Chairperson's duty to preside over the public hearings and meetings of the
Board.
   (D)   The Mayor, with approval by the Board of Trustees, shall have the
power to remove any member of the Recreation Board for cause and after a public
hearing. Not attending two successive meetings without a valid excuse shall be
presumed to be good cause for removal.
   (E)   Each member of the Recreation Board shall serve on a voluntary basis
and shall not be compensated for his or her service to the Board.
(Ord. 2001-O-8, passed 5-1-01; Am. Ord. 2002-O-26, passed 7-2-02)
§ 32.62 JURISDICTION; AUTHORITY, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Recreation Board shall have the following authority, powers and duties:
   (A)   To act as an advisory board to the Mayor and Village Board of Trustees
by preparing and recommending comprehensive plans for the development,
procurement, use, scheduling and maintenance of all parks, park buildings,
athletic facilities, grounds and equipment;
   (B)   To hold public meetings concerning the necessity, costs and overall
community impact of proposing, developing, improving and maintaining new and
existing parks and athletic facilities;
2003 S-12
   (C)   To prepare and recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees, from time
to time, plans concerning overall development and specific improvements to new
and existing parks, park buildings and athletic facilities;
   (D)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to the parks,
recreational programs, athletic facilities, grounds and equipment for the
general purpose of promoting public awareness and utilization of these public
resources; and
   (E)   To develop and recommend implementation of "public use" safety rules
and regulations for parks, park buildings, athletic facilities, grounds and
equipment.
(Ord. 2001-O-8, passed 5-1-01; Am. Ord. 2002-O-26, passed 7-2-02)
§ 32.63 MEETINGS AND GENERAL RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All meetings of the Recreation Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such times as the Board may determine.
   (B)   All meetings held by the Recreation Board shall be open to the public.
No meeting shall be conducted without a quorum present, which shall consist of
a simple majority of the Recreation Board members.
   (C)   The Board shall appoint one of its members to be Secretary, who shall
keep minutes of the Recreation Board proceedings. These minutes shall be open
at all times to public inspection after review and approval by the Board,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact. The Secretary shall also keep records of all the
Recreation Board's hearings and other official actions.
   (D)   Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof or
determination by the Recreation Board shall be filed immediately in the village
office and shall be a public record.
(Ord. 2001-O-8, passed 5-1-01; Am. Ord. 2002-O-26, passed 7-2-02)
CHAPTER 33: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Establishment
   
33.02   Officers
   
33.03   Duties of Chief
   
33.04   Membership qualifications
   
33.05   Equipment
   
33.06   Emergency medical transportation rates
   
33.07   Badges and insignia
   
33.08   On-duty conduct
   
33.09   Duty of police to assist
   
33.10   Foreign fire insurance company fees and board
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Fire Department consisting of a Chief, two
Assistant Chiefs, and such other members as may from time to time be appointed
by the President and Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 600)
§ 33.02 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Any member of the Fire Department who is in good standing shall be
eligible to appointment to any office in the Department, unless he holds an
elective remunerative public office or unless he is a candidate for such an
office.
   (B)   The Department shall consist of a Chief, Assistant Chiefs, and such
other officers as the Chief may deem necessary.
   (C)   The Chief shall be appointed by the President by and with the consent
of the Board of Trustees for a term of one year and until his successor is
appointed. He may be removed by the President and a majority of the Board of
Trustees but only for just cause and after a public hearing before the Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   The Chief shall be held accountable to the President and the Board of
Trustees only, and shall make written and verbal reports thereto as the Board
of Trustees may require. All other Fire Department officers shall be
accountable to the Chief only.
   (E)   The Assistant Chiefs and all other Department officers shall be
appointed by the Chief. Such officers and members shall be accountable only to
the Chief and shall be subject to removal by him. Any person so removed shall,
within a 15-day period, have a right of appeal to a three-person Board of
Appeals. Said Board shall meet within 15 days of the filing of such an appeal
and present its
findings to the next regular meeting of the Department. Any such finding of the
Board of Appeals shall be final unless rejected by a two-thirds vote of the
members present at the meeting to which the report was submitted.
      (1)   The members of the Board of Appeals shall be selected as follows:
one member by the Chief of the Department, one member by the Village President
upon the advice and consent of a majority of the Board of Trustees, and one
member selected by the membership of the Department. In the event the member
selected by the members of the Department becomes an officer of the Department,
his membership on the Board of Appeals shall terminate.
      (2)   Any vacancies on the Board of Appeals shall be filled in the
respective manner above set forth.
('79 Code, § 600(1))
§ 33.03 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief shall formulate a set of rules and regulations to govern the
Fire Department but the same shall not be in conflict with any portion of this
code. He shall be responsible to the President and the Board of Trustees for
all matters in connection with the Department.
   (B)   At least once a month the Chief shall conduct suitable drills or
instruction in all matters generally considered essential to good firefighting
and safety of life and property from fire. The equipment may be used for drill
and practice as frequently and at such times as the Chief may deem necessary.
   (C)   The Chief is hereby required to assist the proper authorities in
suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or causing to be investigated
the cause, origin, and circumstances of all fires. The Chief is hereby
empowered to enter any and all buildings and premises at any reasonable hour
for the purpose of making inspections and to serve written notice upon the
owner or occupant to abate, within a specified time, any and all fire hazards
that may be found. Any person so served with a notice to abate any fire hazard
or hazards shall comply therewith and promptly notify the Chief.
   (D)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel, and other information
about the work of the Department. The Chief shall report by request of the
President and/or the Board of Trustees the condition of the apparatus and
equipment; the number of fires during the month, their location and cause, the
date of same, and the loss occasioned thereby; the number and purpose of all
other runs; and any changes in membership. The Chief shall also make a complete
annual report to the President and the Board of Trustees by June 1 of each
year, which shall also contain comparative data for previous years and
recommendations concerning the Department and any special information requested
by the President and Board of Trustees. The Chief shall annually submit to the
President and the Board of Trustees a budget for the Department for the
forthcoming fiscal year.
('79 Code, § 600(2))
§ 33.04 MEMBERSHIP QUALIFICATIONS.
   The membership of the Fire Department shall consist of such persons as may
be appointed by the Chief, and who shall be able-bodied persons 18 years of age
or over, and citizens residing within the village or the fire district
(preferably citizens whose business activities are normally within the confines
of the village, and who have telephones in their homes).
('79 Code, § 600(3))
§ 33.05 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Recommendations of apparatus and equipment which are needed by the
Fire Department shall be made by the Chief to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   No person shall use any fire apparatus, ambulance, or other equipment
for any private purpose without consent of either the Chief, Assistant Chief,
or Duty Captain, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority
take away, conceal, damage, or deface any article owned by the Department.
('79 Code, § 600(4)(a))
   (C)   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus or ambulances are
housed, or handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of any officer, elected
village official, or authorized member of the Department. ('79 Code, § 600(4)
(b))
   (D)   No apparatus shall be loaned or permitted to leave the fire district
except with the consent of the Village President, the chairperson of the Fire
Committee of the Board of Trustees, or the Chief or the Assistant Chief of the
Fire Department except to answer a mutual aid call.
('79 Code, § 600(4)(c))
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION RATES.
   The Fire Chief shall maintain a fee schedule, which shall be prominently
displayed in the Fire Department and which shall be freely accessible to all
residents and citizens, showing the current charges the Village Board has
determined shall be charged by the department for emergency transportation and
advanced life support. The fee schedule shall be set by motion of the Village
Board and shall be updated as necessary. The Fire Department will be
responsible for billing the users of its services, and to do so, it may enter
into contracts, subject to approval of the Village Board, for management and
billing of these accounts. In maintaining its accounts, including those of its
billing contractor, the Fire Department must maintain patient confidentiality
as required by federal and state law. All funds received from these accounts
shall be turned in promptly to the Village Treasurer.
('79 Code, § 600(4)(d) and (4)(e)) (Ord. 1985-O-9, passed 3-19-85; Am. Ord.
1986-0-13, passed 7-1-86; Am. Ord. 2003-O-13, passed 5-20-03)
§ 33.07 BADGES AND INSIGNIA.
   Each member of the Fire Department may carry a badge designating his rank or
membership; and each member who drives a car in his duties for the Department
may be issued a suitable insignia to be attached to his car.
('79 Code, § 600(5))
§ 33.08 ON-DUTY CONDUCT.
   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be on duty in the
following instances:
   (A)   While in Department uniform (or in certain emergency situations where
dress in Department uniform cannot be readily accomplished) and on properties
occupied by the Fire Department, such as offices, garages, and other work
areas.
   (B)   When as a member of the Department a person is responding to an
emergency situation, regardless of whether or not an alarm has been turned in.
   (C)   Members of the Department, except in those instances stated in
divisions (A) and (B) above, will not be deemed to be on duty.
('79 Code, § 600(5)(a)(b))
§ 33.09 DUTY OF POLICE TO ASSIST.
   It is made the special duty of the Chief of Police and any other police
officers who may be on duty and available for fire duty to respond to all fire
alarms and assist the Fire Department in the protection of life and property,
in regulating traffic, maintaining order, and in enforcing observance of all
sections of this code.
('79 Code, § 600(6))
§ 33.10 FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY FEES AND BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment of rate. Every corporation, company and association
which is not incorporated under state law and which is engaged in effecting
fire insurance in the village, shall pay to the Village Treasurer or to the
Treasurer’s designated agent, for the maintenance, use and benefit of the fire
department, a sum equal to 2% of the gross receipts received from fire
insurance upon property situated within the village.
   (B)   Payment of fees. Every such corporation, company and association shall
pay at the rate prescribed, upon the amount of all premiums which have been
received during the year ending July 1, for all fire insurance effected or
agreed to be effected on property situated within the village by that
corporation, company or association respectively.
   (C)   Rendering of account. Every person who acts in the village as agent or
otherwise, on behalf of a corporation, company or association, shall render to
the Village Treasurer, or the Treasurer’s designated agent, on or before July
15, of each year, a full and true account, verified by oath, of all of the
premiums which, during the year ending on July 1, preceding the report, or
received by him or her, or by any other person, for him or her on behalf of
that corporation, company or association. He or she shall specify in this
report the amounts received for fire insurance, and he or she shall pay to the
Village Treasurer, or the Village Treasurer’s designated agent, at the time of
rendering the report, the amount as determined by the rate fixed by this
chapter for which his or her corporation, company, or association is
accountable under this section. The Village Clerk, or his or her designee,
shall have the right to examine the books, records and other papers and
documents of a designated agent, corporation, company or association for the
purpose of verifying the correctness of the report of the amounts received for
fire insurance.
   (D)   Board established.
      (1)   A Foreign Fire Insurance Board is hereby established. The Board
shall consist of seven trustees; one of whom shall be the Fire Chief and the
remaining six shall be elected at large by the sworn members of the Department
from the members of the Department. The Board shall select from amongst
themselves a Chairman and a Treasurer. The Board shall promulgate and adopt
such rules as may be appropriate and necessary for the Board’s operations and
to oversee the proper expenditure of the fees.
      (2)   The Board shall have the responsibilities and authority to act
designated in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-10-2 and no other responsibility, powers
or authority of any kind.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall provide a bond as required by ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 11-10-2, and shall participate in providing all necessary information to
the village’s auditors so that the Board’s accounts may be duly audited as a
part of the annual municipal audit.
   (E)   Disbursement of funds. The Village Finance Director shall pay the sums
received from the insurance companies specified in this section to the
Treasurer of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board within 30 days after the funds
are collected by the Village Collector or Clerk.
(Ord. 2009-O-24, passed 12-1-09)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Chief of Police; appointment
   
34.03   Duties of Chief
   
34.04   Supervision
   
34.05   Removal from Police Department
   
34.06   Establishment of Department rules and regulations
   
34.07   Duties of members
   
34.08   Conduct of members
   
34.09   Witness fees
   
34.10   Appointments made by Police Chief
   
34.11   Part-time police
   
34.12   Village jail
Board of Police Commissioners
   
34.30   Establishment
   
34.31   Members
   
34.32   Officers; meetings and compensation
   
34.33   Powers and duties
Police Pension Fund
   
34.40   Establishment
   
34.41   Administration
   
34.42   Deposits; salary deduction
   
34.43   Meetings
   
34.44   Powers and duties of Pension Fund Board of Trustees
   
34.45   Duties of Village Treasurer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a Police Department consisting of a
Chief of Police and such other members as may be provided for from time to time
in the manner provided by law.
('79 Code, § 500)
§ 34.02 CHIEF OF POLICE; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the position of Chief of Police, which position
shall be filled by appointment by the President by and with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees. The Chief shall hold such position during the
pleasure of said corporate authorities or for such period as may be agreed to
by the corporate authorities; however, no such period shall in any event beyond
the April 30 immediately following the date of appointment. Neither the Chief
of Police nor any other member of the Police Department shall be an elective
officer of the village.
('79 Code, § 500(1))
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall be keeper of the village jail, and shall have
custody of all persons incarcerated therein. He shall keep such records and
make such reports concerning the activities of the Police Department as may be
required by statute or ordinance. The Chief shall be responsible for the
performance by the Police Department of all its functions and all persons who
are members of the Department shall serve subject to the orders of the Chief of
Police. The Chief shall be custodian of all lost, abandoned, or stolen property
in the village. He shall be authorized to serve writs, summons, or other
processes.
('79 Code, § 500(3))
§ 34.04 SUPERVISION.
   The Chief of Police may elect to assign specific duties to any of the
aforementioned officers, in his absence, for training purposes or other such
reasons he makes known to the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 500(2)) (Ord. 1981-0-2, passed 2-3-81; Am. Ord. 1982-0-17, passed
8-17-82; Am. Ord. 1983-0-21, passed 9-20-83; Am. Ord. 1989-0-15, passed 6-6-89)
§ 34.05 REMOVAL FROM POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   Neither the Chief of Police nor any other member of the Police Department
with more than one year of service on the Department shall be removed from the
Department without cause and until a proper and impartial hearing is held to
determine the validity of any charges made against such member in a manner
prescribed by the Board of Police Commissioners.
('79 Code, § 500(4)) (Ord. 1981-0-2, passed 2-3-81)
§ 34.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or describe such rules and regulations for the
internal operation of the Police Department as he shall see fit and proper.
General rules, regulations and classification standards are established by the
Chief of Police and approved by the President and Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 500(6)) (Ord. 1989-0-15, passed 6-6-89)
§ 34.07 DUTIES OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all village ordinances and all state statutes effective in the
village, to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law, and to arrest
violators thereof. Every member of the Police Department is hereby declared to
be a conservator of the peace.
('79 Code, § 500(5))
§ 34.08 CONDUCT OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law-abiding manner, and to avoid the use of
unnecessary force.
('79 Code, § 500(7))
§ 34.09 WITNESS FEES.
   Every member of the Police Department shall appear as a witness whenever
this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of a village ordinance or of
a state or federal law. However, no such member shall receive any witness fee
for such service in any action or suit to which the village is a party; all
fees due for such services shall, if paid, be turned over to the Village
Treasurer.
('79 Code, § 500(8))
§ 34.10 APPOINTMENTS MADE BY POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief is authorized to appoint a Deputy Chief upon approval of
the Mayor and Village Board. The Police Chief is authorized to discipline any
person appointed to the position of Deputy Chief up to and including suspension
or discharge, pursuant to established village policies. Any person discharged
from the position of Deputy Chief shall revert to his or her permanent rank, if
any, in the Police Department as established by the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners. The Deputy Chief shall have such powers as the Chief shall grant
to act in his or her place during his or her absence but in no case shall have
powers beyond those granted to the Chief.
(Ord. 2017-O-19, passed 10-3-17)
§ 34.11 PART-TIME POLICE.
   (A)   Employment. The Village of Winthrop Harbor may employ part-time police
officers from time to time as they deem necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
General Orders of the Winthrop Harbor Police Department, but the number of
hours a part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-
time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time
police officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with
the Illinois Police Training Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.) and the
rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age.
      (3)   Pass a medical examination.
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      (5)   Possess a valid driver’s license.
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (H)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment, and may be removed by the village authorities at any time.
Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and General
Orders issued by the Police Department.
(‘79 Code, § 500(9)) (Am. Ord. 2012-O-10, passed 5-15-12)
§ 34.12 VILLAGE JAIL.
   (A)   The place in the village hitherto established and used as the jail, or
any other place which may hereafter be established by the Board of Trustees for
that purpose, is hereby declared to be the jail.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall be keeper of the jail and shall have custody
of all persons confined therein and of all property pertaining thereto.
   (C)   The jail shall be used for the incarceration of all persons arrested
for violating any laws of the state, the United States, or for violating any
village ordinance until such person shall be brought before a magistrate for a
hearing or until such person shall be lawfully transferred to some other place
of incarceration.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any prisoner to escape, attempt to escape, or
assist any person to escape or attempt to escape from the jail.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to communicate with any prisoner
held in the jail without the permission of the keeper of the jail.
('79 Code, § 500(11)) Penalty, see §
10.99
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 34.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Board of Police Commissioners for the village
consisting of three members, pursuant to state law.
('79 Code, § 500(12a)) (Ord. 1981-0-3, passed 2-3-81)
§ 34.31 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Board of Police Commissioners shall be appointed by the Village
President with the consent of the Board of Trustees. The terms of office of the
members shall be three years and until their respective successors shall be
appointed and qualified. However, no appointment shall be made by the President
within 30 days before the expiration of his term of office; further, the first
appointments to the Board shall be made for the terms provided by statute.
Vacancies arising from death, resignation, removal or otherwise shall be filled
in the same manner as an original appointment. ('79 Code, § 500(12b))
   (B)   No person holding a lucrative office under the United States, this
state or a political subdivision thereof, or a municipality, and no person
related by blood or marriage up to the degree of first cousin to any elected
official of this village shall be a member of the Board. No more than two
members of the Board shall belong to the same political party as determined by
affidavit according to statute. Members shall be officers of the municipality
and shall file an oath of office and a bond in a sum not less than that fixed
from time to time by the Board of Trustees by resolution, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of the office. Members of the Board shall be
subject to removal according to statute. ('79 Code, § 500(12c))
(Ord. 1981-0-3, passed 2-3-81)
§ 34.32 OFFICERS; MEETINGS AND COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Board of Police Commissioners shall elect one of their
number as Chairperson to serve during each municipal year. A majority of the
Board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of all business. The Board may
appoint a Secretary or designate one of its own members to act as Secretary.
The members of the Board and the Secretary of the Board shall serve without
compensation unless such compensation is approved and provided for by the Board
of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 500(12d)) (Ord. 1981-O-3, passed 2-3-81)
§ 34.33 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Police Commissioners shall exercise such powers in appointing,
promoting, and removing officers and members of the Police Department and shall
exercise such other and further powers as are granted by statute, except that
the Board shall not have any such power with respect to the Chief of Police.
The Board shall have power to make rules appropriate to carrying out its
statutory and ordinance powers, but no such rule shall be made to govern the
operation of the Police Department or the conduct of its members. In addition
to the foregoing general powers, the Board shall further have the power to
establish hiring lists comprised of so-called “lateral hires,” being sworn
officers that are, or have recently been, working full-time as sworn officers
in other jurisdictions within Illinois and are fully qualified pursuant to
state law to be hired by this and other municipalities.
(‘79 Code, § 500(12e)) (Ord. 1981-O-3, passed 2-3-81; Am. Ord. 2017-O-15,
passed 8-15-17)
POLICE PENSION FUND
§ 34.40 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Police Pension Fund is hereby established in this municipality pursuant to
Article 3 of the Illinois Pension Code, ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.
(‘79 Code, § 500(13a)) (Ord. 1981-O-6, passed 4-7-81)
§ 34.41 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Pension Fund shall be administrated by a Board of Trustees. The
Board of Trustees Police Pension Fund shall be selected and shall have such
qualifications as required by statute; members of the Board will be subject to
removal according to statute. Vacancies arising from death, resignation,
removal, or otherwise shall be filled in the same manner as an original
appointment.
('79 Code, § 500(13b)) (Ord. 1981-O-6, passed 4-7-81)
§ 34.42 DEPOSITS; SALARY DEDUCTION.
   There shall be deposited in the Police Pension Fund the sums required by law
which shall include those amounts required by the Illinois Pension Code to be
deducted from the salary of each member of the police force. There shall also
be deposited the proceeds of the annual tax levied by the village. The Board of
Trustees shall levy a tax which when added to the deduction from the salaries
of the police officers and receipts from other sources will equal a sum
sufficient to meet the annual requirement of the Police Pension Fund and of the
reserves required therefor, all as provided by the state statute.
('79 Code, § 500(13c)) (Ord. 1981-O-6, passed 4-7-81)
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Pension Code; salary deductions, see ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-125.1
§ 34.43 MEETINGS.
   The Board of Trustees of the Fund shall hold regular quarterly meetings on
the second Tuesday of July, October, January, and April annually, and hold
special meetings called by the President, or as required by the applicable laws
of the state. At its first meeting and at its regular July meetings thereafter,
the Board shall select from its members a President, Vice President, Secretary,
and Assistant Secretary to serve for the period of one year and until their
respective successors are elected and qualified.
('79 Code, § 500(13d)) (Ord. 1981-O-6, passed 4-7-81)
§ 34.44 POWERS AND DUTIES OF PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund shall have the powers
granted to it by statute including but not limited to the duty to control,
manage, and disburse the Pension Fund in accordance with state statutes. ('79
Code, § 500(13e))
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to make rules appropriate
to carrying out its statutory and ordinance powers, but no such rule shall be
made to govern the operation of the Police or Fire Departments or the conduct
of their members.
('79 Code, § 500(13g))
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall establish and maintain a reserve to insure
the payment of all obligations incurred under this subchapter, meeting such
requirements and levels as required by statute. ('79 Code, § 500(13h))
(Ord. 1981-O-6, passed 4-7-81)
§ 34.45 DUTIES OF VILLAGE TREASURER.
   The Village Treasurer shall have the duties set forth in the Illinois
Pension Code, ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.
('79 Code, § 500 (13f)) (Ord. 1981-O-6, passed 4-7-81)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Designated record keeper
   
35.03   Freedom of Information Act officers
   
35.04   FOIA applies
   
35.05   Information available to general public
   
35.06   (Reserved)
   
35.07   (Reserved)
   
35.08   Costs
   
35.09   Categorization of records
   
35.10   Confidentiality
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COPYING. The reproduction or any public record by means of any photographic,
electronic, mechanical, or other process, device, or means.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, organization, or
association acting individually or as a group, or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC BODY. Any legislative, executive, administrative, or advisory body of
the state, counties, townships, cities, or villages, incorporated towns, school
districts, and all other municipal corporations, boards, bureaus, committees,
or commissions of the state, and any subsidiary bodies of any of the foregoing,
including but not limited to committees and subcommittees which are supported
in whole or in part by tax revenue, or which expend tax revenue.
   PUBLIC RECORD. The meaning ascribed to it in the Freedom of Information Act.
('79 Code, § 314(1)) (Ord. 84-O-15, passed 6-19-84)
§ 35.02 DESIGNATED RECORD KEEPER.
   There shall be responsible record keepers in the village who shall each be
responsible for different records, as follows:
   (A)   The Village Clerk and the Deputy Village Clerk shall be responsible
for all records except those of the Police Department.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall be responsible for all Police Department
records.
(‘79 Code, § 314(2)) (Ord. 84-0-15, passed 6-19-84; Am. Ord. 2012-O-17, passed
8-21-12)
§ 35.03 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT OFFICERS.
   There shall be designated Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) officers in the
village who shall each be responsible for providing timely responses to FOIA
requests, as follows:
   (A)   The Village Clerk and the Deputy Village Clerk shall be responsible
for responding to all record requests except for those seeking records of the
Police Department.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall be responsible for responding to all Police
Department record requests.
   (C)   As needed due to vacations, illnesses and the like, the Village Clerk,
Deputy Village Clerk and Police Chief may designate individuals to act in their
respective absences.
   (D)   The FOIA officers designated above may at any time necessary consult
with the Village Attorney on any matter involving the interpretation of the
FOIA law or the disclosure of documents thereunder.
(‘79 Code, §§ 314(2), (4)) (Ord. 84-0-15, passed 6-19-84; Am. Ord. 2012-O-17,
passed 8-21-12)
§ 35.04 FOIA APPLIES.
   The village is committed to strictly following all provisions of the
Illinois Freedom of Information Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq. as it is
in effect and as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 84-0-15, passed 6-19-84; Am. Ord. 2012-O-17, passed 8-21-12)
§ 35.05 INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO GENERAL PUBLIC.
   Section 4 of the Freedom of Information Act requires all public bodies to
display certain information and make the same available to the public for
inspection and copying. The Village Clerk is responsible for ensuring that this
information is continuously available and up to date as required by this Act.
(‘79 Code, § 314(5)) (Ord. 84-0-15, passed 6-19-84; Am. Ord. 2012-O-17, passed
8-21-12)
§ 35.06 (RESERVED).
§ 35.07 (RESERVED).
§ 35.08 COSTS.
   The following costs for photocopies of public records shall apply:
   (A)   The fee permitted by Section 6 of FOIA (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 6) for
paper copies on standard 8-1/2" by 11" paper.
   (B)   The fee permitted by Section 6 of FOIA (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 6) for
all non-standard sized copies or electronic media.
   (C)   Certification shall be charged at the rate of $1 per page for
individual pages.
   (D)   Accident and offense reports will be charged at $5 per report.
(‘79 Code, § 314(8)) (Ord. 84-0-15, passed 6-19-84; Am. Ord. 2012-O-17, passed
8-21-12)
§ 35.09 CATEGORIZATION OF RECORDS.
   The Village Clerk shall be responsible for maintaining the list of
categories and types of documents kept by the village as described more fully
in Section 5 of FOIA (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, § 5).
(‘79 Code, § 314(9)) (Ord. 84-0-15, passed 6-19-84; Am. Ord. 2012-O-17, passed
8-21-12)
§ 35.10 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The designated record keeper or Freedom of Information Act officer shall not
divulge or reveal to any public record applicant any records or materials which
are exempt from the terms of the Freedom of Information Act as set forth in
Section 7 of that Act, unless directed to do so by a final order of the
Attorney General’s Public Access Counsel, by a final order of a court of
competent jurisdiction or by the Village Board of Trustees.
(‘79 Code, § 314(10)) (Ord. 84-0-15, passed 6-19-84; Am. Ord. 2012-O-17, passed
8-21-12)
CHAPTER 36: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Bad check service charge
   
36.02   Bonds
   
36.03   Fiscal year
   
36.04   Professional fees
   
36.05   Document retention and destruction policy
   
36.06   Skate park
   
36.07   Water stop order payments
   
36.08   Building permit refund policy
§ 36.01 BAD CHECK SERVICE CHARGE.
   The village shall charge the a civil penalty of $25 for any check returned
to it by its bank or any other bank where the account of the maker of said
check was closed; or $25 where it had insufficient funds. Such charge shall be
paid by the maker. Where such check was for payment of water or any other
services or goods not necessarily pertaining to sewer and water, the amount
owed plus the check charge, plus any required additional deposit must be paid
before the services shall be considered paid in full. Payment of this civil
penalty shall cover the village’s administrative costs and shall not be in lieu
of any criminal penalty.
(‘79 Code, § 1002(23)(b)) (Ord. 1983-0-8, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 2012-O-18,
passed 8-21-12)
§ 36.02 BONDS.
   (A)   Whenever a bond is required as a prerequisite to holding any village
office, or to securing any license or permit or enjoying any special privilege,
such bond shall have as surety a corporation licensed to do business in the
state as an insurance surety company in the absence of provisions to the
contrary by ordinance, provided that where such bond is required in connection
with the use of real estate in the vil lage the individual bond of the owner
thereof shall be sufficient if the owner's interest in the building is equal to
the amount of the bond required.
   (B)   Whenever any bond shall become insecure for any reason, the Board of
Trustees may order a new bond to be filed or an additional surety to be
procured. A failure to file such new bond or procure such additional surety
shall operate to discontinue the office, permit, license, or privilege to the
enjoyment of which filing the bond was prerequisite.
('79 Code, § 1002(19))
§ 36.03 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall begin on May 1 of each year.
('79 Code, § 1002(2))
§ 36.04 PROFESSIONAL FEES.
   All applicants for zoning, variances or other matters which require the
village to obtain the assistance of professionals (including by way of example
but not limitation attorneys, architects, engineers, land planners or
accountants) shall bear all expenses related thereto. To clarify the
relationship between the applicant and the village, the applicants shall be
asked to sign a “Professional Fee Agreement” at the time of application, or at
such later time as the need for specific professional services becomes evident.
The agreement shall be in the following form:
   Professional Fee Agreement
The undersigned, in making an application or request of the Village of Winthrop
Harbor, hereby agrees that:
1)   In processing an application or request, or in considering any matter,
should the Village of Winthrop Harbor incur any professional fees or other
costs, including but not limited to engineering fees, planning fees, attorney’s
fees, and other fees, the applicant in any matter shall be responsible for the
fees.
   a)   Whenever the applicant is required by village ordinance or rule, state
or federal law, to submit plans, specifications or other documents to the
Village Engineer, Attorney or other employee of the village, for his review,
comments and approval or disapproval, such person or entity shall be
responsible for the fees charged to the village in connection therewith.
   b)   Whenever the applicant shall, of his or her own volition submit plans,
specifications or other documents to the Village Engineer, Attorney or other
employee of the village for his review, approval, disapproval or comments upon
the plans, specifications or other documents, the person or entity submitting
the same shall be responsible for the fee charges by the employee in connection
therewith.
2)   The applicant shall be required to deposit necessary anticipated funds
prior to the professional fees or other costs being incurred by the Village of
Winthrop Harbor in those instances in which the village requires that the
applicant reimburse fees or other costs incurred by the village in connection
with the applicants request.
3)   The applicant shall pay the fees to the village promptly after request.
The Village Treasurer shall be responsible for collecting the fee and
disbursing same, on the approval of and at the direction of the Village Board,
on account of the fees and costs.
4)   This agreement is made pursuant to Winthrop Harbor Ordinance
                     , adopted by the Village Board of Winthrop Harbor on
____________.
 
                                                                                                 
Applicant                                                                                        Phone
                                                                                                 
Address                                                                                       City and State
                                                                                                 
Signature                                                                                        Date
 
Received and Accepted by
The Village of Winthrop Harbor by:
 
                                                                                                 
Village Official                                                                                 Date
Village of Winthrop Harbor                                                                       Adopted at                                                 
830 Sheridan Road, Winthrop Harbor IL 60096                                                      Board Meeting
 
(Ord. 2002-O-17, passed 4-16-02)
§ 36.05 DOCUMENT RETENTION AND DESTRUCTION POLICY.
   (A)   The village recognizes that the Village Clerk does not have unlimited
storage capacity, and that state law allows the destruction of several
categories of routine documents after specific periods of time, and this
section is designed and intended to require that these documents be kept for a
sufficient period to allow any challenges or disputes to be resolved, and yet
permit the Clerk to clear out old and useless documentation so that the
business of the village is not impeded by expensive and pointless document
retention.
   (B)   All ordinances, resolutions and minutes of any Board or Commission of
the village shall be kept in perpetuity.
   (C)   All time cards, W-2s, W-9s, and other routine financial and tax
information relative to any of the village’s employees shall be retained for
seven years.
   (D)   All information relative to accounts payable and receivable shall be
retained for seven years.
   (E)   All information relative to licenses and permits issued to any person
or entity by the village shall be retained for two years.
   (F)   All general correspondence not involving matters of an ongoing nature,
or which relate only generally to village business shall be retained for two
years.
   (G)   The Clerk shall review the village’s stored files and purge any
documents that have been kept at least as long as set forth above, and which do
not appear to involve any ongoing matters, and shall cause the same to be
securely destroyed.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep a general index of all destroyed documents.
(Ord. 2003-O-5, passed 4-1-03)
§ 36.06 SKATE PARK.
   (A)   The village recognizes that the skate park facility located in the
Village Park has unique attributes due to the potential for injuries to the
users of the facility, while at the same time recognizing that the facility has
the potential for providing a substantial recreational asset to the community,
and provides a much safer environment, despite this potential for injury, than
open skating on the streets of the village.
   (B)   The village further recognizes that the skate park equipment is
expensive to purchase, install and maintain, that these facilities are used by
a relatively small portion of the population of the village, and that there are
certain persons who will disregard safety rules, no matter how reasonable, and
endanger themselves and others while using facilities of this nature.
   (C)   It is for the above reasons that the village adopts this section.
   (D)   The Recreation Director shall post a set of rules and regulations for
the use of the skate park, which may include hours of operation and prohibit
illegal or grossly unsafe activities such as drinking of alcohol, smoking or
the use of home-made or personally-owned skating equipment, including but not
limited to ramps, half-pipes and the like.
   (E)   Any person found to be in violation of this section may be barred from
the use of the skate park and shall be subject to any other fines and penalties
that he or she may be liable for under any other section of this code or of the
laws of the state.
   (F)   If a person is barred from the use of the skate park pursuant to
division (E) above, the Recreation Director or his or her designee is
specifically authorized to physically remove the offender, and if he or she
refuses to leave, then to have him or her charged by the police with criminal
trespass to property.
   (G)   In the event any part of this section is found to be unenforceable or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such finding shall not
affect the balance of this section, which shall remain in full force and
effect.
(Ord. 2003-O-6, passed 4-1-03; Am. Ord. 2006-O-9, passed 5-2-06; Am. Ord. 2009-
O5, passed 4-21-09)
§ 36.07 WATER STOP ORDER PAYMENTS.
   Once the village has issued a stop service order on any water service
account, the account must be paid in full by cash, cashier's check or money
order before the stop service order will be cancelled.
(Ord. 2003-O-26, passed 9-2-03)
§ 36.08 BUILDING PERMIT REFUND POLICY.
   The Building Commissioner is authorized to exercise discretion and approve
refunds of fees paid for building permits in strict compliance with the
following instances. Prior to issuing payment in such instances, the Finance
Department shall be provided with a document authorizing the payment signed by
the Building Commissioner or the Commissioner’s duly authorized deputy.
   (A)   All requests for cancellation and/or refund of permit and/or permit
fees must be submitted in writing to the Village of Winthrop Harbor Building
Department, on the Department’s refund form, verified by the requester under
penalty of perjury. All requests must include a copy of the original permit and
the reason why the cancellation and/or refund is being requested.
   (B)   All applications, including those claiming unusual circumstances,
shall be reviewed and approved or rejected by the Building Commissioner on a
case-by-case basis in the exercise of the Commissioner’s sound discretion. The
Commissioner shall approve refunds only for good cause shown.
   (C)   All requests must be made by the person, firm, or corporation who paid
the original permit fee(s).
   (D)   Any payment made shall be made to the person, firm or corporation who
paid the original permit fee(s).
   (E)   No refunds shall be made when requested more than 180 days after the
date of original payment.
   (F)   (1)   Cancellation of a project or a change in the contractor or the
transfer of ownership of the property while the permit is in effect does not
constitute an appropriate request for refund.
      (2)   An administrative fee shall be deducted from the refund to
reimburse the village for the cost of processing the permit and the refund. The
administrative fee shall be 20% of the gross fee paid, but in no event less
than $25 dollars.
(Ord. 2023-O-2, passed 1-17-23)
CHAPTER 37: FISCAL MANAGEMENT POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Adoption
   
37.02   Administrator; reporting to authorities
   
37.03   Alleged misconduct
   
37.04   Investigations
   
37.05   Authority
§ 37.01 ADOPTION.
   The fiscal management policies of the village shall be set forth in a Fiscal
Policy Manual adopted by resolution of the Village Board and reviewed
periodically to maintain compliance with all applicable federal and state laws,
as well as with standard best practices as required by the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board (GASB), the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (AICPA), and the Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA).
(Ord. 2023-O-13, passed 7-11-23)
§ 37.02 ADMINISTRATOR; REPORTING TO AUTHORITIES.
   The Administrator shall bear ultimate responsibility to report to the
corporate authorities regarding compliance by all village officers, elected
officials and employees with the terms and conditions of the then-current
Fiscal Policy Manual. The Administrator shall be assisted, as appropriate, by
the Finance Director, Treasurer and Village Attorney.
(Ord. 2023-O-13, passed 7-11-23)
§ 37.03 ALLEGED MISCONDUCT.
   The Administrator shall be responsible for investigating any alleged
misconduct by any person described in §
37.02.
(Ord. 2023-O-13, passed 7-11-23)
§ 37.04 INVESTIGATIONS.
   In the event that any accusation of misconduct relating to fiscal matters is
brought against the Administrator, the Village Attorney shall either conduct
the investigation, or if ethically prohibited from doing so, shall appoint a
neutral outside attorney to conduct the investigation.
(Ord. 2023-O-13, passed 7-11-23)
§ 37.05 AUTHORITY.
   The policies described in the Fiscal Policy Manual shall bear the full force
of law to the maximum extent possible under the Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2023-O-13, passed 7-11-23)
CHAPTER 38: GIFT BAN
Section
   
38.01   State regulations adopted
   
38.02   Prohibited activities
   
38.03   Definitions
   
38.04   Existing ordinances or policies
   
38.05   Future amendments
   
38.06   Future acts deemed unconstitutional
 
   
38.99   Penalty
§ 38.01 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The regulations of ILCS Ch.5, Act 430, § 5-15 and ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§
10-10 through 10-40 of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, ILCS Ch.
5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this
chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers
and employees of the village to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §
70-5.
(Ord. 2004-O-9, passed 6-1-04)
§ 38.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (B)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 2004-O-9, passed 6-1-04) Penalty, see § 
38.99
§ 38.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. This term shall be defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §
70-5(c).
   OFFICER. This term shall be defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §
70-5(c).
(Ord. 2004-O-9, passed 6-1-04)
§ 38.04 EXISTING ORDINANCES OR POLICIES.
   This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a).
(Ord. 2004-O-9, passed 6-1-04)
§ 38.05 FUTURE AMENDMENTS.
   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective date of
this chapter shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall he
applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to
prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this chapter by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the village.
(Ord. 2004-O-9, passed 6-1-04)
§ 38.06 FUTURE ACTS DEEMED UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
   (A)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (B)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this chapter relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the village.
(Ord. 2004-O-9, passed 6-1-04)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5 for similar violations of
the Act.
(Ord. 2004-O-9, passed 6-1-04)
CHAPTER 39: CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT
   
39.01   Adoption of state law
   
39.02   Code Hearing Department established
   
39.03   Individuals authorized to issue code violations
   
39.04   Mayor to appoint a hearing officer
   
39.05   Rules applicable to all code violations
   
39.06   Instituting code hearing proceedings
   
39.07   Fines applicable to all offenses
   
39.08   Costs to be taxed
§ 39.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 §§ 1-2.2-1 et seq., “Code Hearing Departments, ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5 §§ 11-31.1-1 et seq., “Building Code Violations,” and ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5 § 11-208.3, “Administrative Adjudication of Violations of Traffic
Regulations Concerning the Standing, Parking, or Condition of Vehicles,” as
from time to time amended, are hereby adopted in their entirety and any person
charged with the violation of a municipal ordinance may be prosecuted under and
in accordance with the provisions herein.
(Ord. 2006-O-2, passed 2-7-06)
§ 39.02 CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   A Code Hearing Department is established as an independent agency of the
municipal government to adjudicate any violation of a municipal ordinance
except for moving violations under the Illinois Vehicle Code, and any
reportable offenses pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 6-204, the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 2006-O-2, passed 2-7-06)
§ 39.03 INDIVIDUALS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE CODE VIOLATIONS.
   Individuals authorized to issue code violations are any and all police
officers, all community service officers, all building code inspectors, the
Administrator of Planning, Zoning, and Building, and any other person appointed
by the Mayor to issue code violations. These individuals shall be called
compliance administrators.
(Ord. 2006-O-2, passed 2-7-06)
§ 39.04 MAYOR TO APPOINT A HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor, with advice and consent of the Village Board, shall appoint
a hearing officer to hear contested hearings under this chapter. Prior to
conducting proceedings under this chapter, hearing officers shall successfully
complete a formal training program that includes the following:
      (1)   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the hearing that they will
conduct;
      (2)   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations they will
administer;
      (3)   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      (4)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including rules of evidence
and issuing final orders.
   (B)   In addition, every hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state for at least three years.
(Ord. 2006-O-2, passed 2-7-06)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 § 1-2.2-40
§ 39.05 RULES APPLICABLE TO ALL CODE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance administrator. The Village Administrator shall appoint a
compliance administrator(s) authorized to adopt, distribute, and process
parking and other violation notices, collect money paid as fines and penalties
for violation of certain ordinances, and operate an administrative adjudication
system.
   (B)   Opportunity for a hearing. Any person receiving a violation shall have
an opportunity for a hearing in which a party may contest the merits of the
alleged violation. Persons appearing at the hearing may be represented by
counsel at their own expense. At the hearing, a hearing officer shall preside
and hear testimony and accept evidence as to the existence or non-existence of
a code violation.
   (C)   Final determination of liability. A final determination of liability
shall occur following after a hearing officer's determination of liability and
the exhaustion or failure to exhaust the administrative review procedure
provided in this chapter. The hearing officer's determination of liability
shall become final:
      (1)   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination;
or
      (2)   Upon expiration of the period for filing the petition without such
filing having been made.
   (D)   Subpoenas for witnesses. At any time prior to the hearing date, the
hearing officer may, at the request of either party, issue subpoenas for
witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing.
   (E)   Default. If on the date set for hearing the defendant or his attorney
fails to appear, the hearing officer may find the defendant in default and
shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the code
violation.
   (F)   Strict rules of evidence inapplicable. The strict rules of evidence
applicable to judicial proceedings shall not apply to hearings authorized by
this chapter.
   (G)   Determination in writing.
      (1)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination based upon the evidence presented. The determination shall be in
writing. The findings, decision, and order shall include:
         (a)    The hearing officer's finding of facts;
         (b)   A decision of whether or not the code violation exists based on
the finding of facts; and
         (c)   An order that states the sanction imposed or dismisses the case
if a violation if not proved.
      (2)   A copy of the findings, decision, and order shall be served on the
defendant within five days after it is issued.
   (H)   Review. The findings, decision, and order of the hearing officer shall
be subject to review in the judicial Circuit Court of the Lake County. The
provisions of the administrative review law and the rules adopted pursuant
thereto shall apply to and govern every action for the judicial review of the
findings, decision, and order of a hearing officer under this chapter.
   (I)   Fine, sanction, or costs imposed. Any fine, other sanction, or costs
imposed, or part of any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, remaining
unpaid after the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust judicial review
procedures under the administrative review law shall be a debt due and owing
the village and, as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
Payment in full of any fine or penalty resulting from a standing, parking, or
compliance violation shall constitute a final disposition of that violation.
(Ord. 2006-O-2, passed 2-7-06)
Statutory reference:
   Similar and additional provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 § 1-2.2-25; Ch.
65, Act 5 § 1-2.2-35;
    Ch. 65, Act 5 § 1-2.2-45; Ch. 65, Act 5 § 1-2.2-50; Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-
208.3(b)(1);
    Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-208.3(b)(4); Ch. 625, Act 5 , § 11-208.3(b)(7); Ch.
625, Act 5 § 11-208.3(d);
    Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-208.3(e)
§ 39.06 INSTITUTING CODE HEARING PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Code violations other than building or parking, standing or compliance
violations.
      (1)   When a compliance administrator finds that a code violation exists,
that individual shall note the violation on a multiple copy violation notice
that indicates:
         (a)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
         (b)   The type and nature of the violation;
         (c)   The date and time the violation was observed;
         (d)   The names of witnesses to the violation.
      (2)   The violation form shall be forwarded to the code hearing
department where a docket number shall be stamped on all copies of the report
and a hearing date shall be noted in the blank spaces provided for that purpose
on the form. The hearing date shall not be less than 30 nor more than 40 days
after the violation is reported.
      (3)   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the
files of the code hearing department and shall be part of the record of
hearing, one copy of the report form shall be returned to the individual
representing the municipality so that he or she may prepare evidence of the
code violation for presentation at the hearing, and one copy of the report form
shall be served by first class mail to the defendant along with a summons
commanding the defendant to appear at the hearing.
      (4)   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under
the administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of the
code violation, the village may commence a proceeding in circuit court for
purpose of obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision, and order. Nothing
in this section shall prevent the village from consolidating multiple findings,
decisions, and orders against a person in such a proceeding. Upon commencement
of the action, the village shall file a certified copy of the findings,
decision, and order, which shall be accompanied by a certification that recites
facts sufficient to show that the findings, decision, and order was issued in
accordance with the applicable municipal ordinance. Service of the summons and
a copy of the petition may be made by any method provided for by ILCS Ch. 735,
Act 5 § 2-203 (Section 2-203 of the Code of Civil Procedure) or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, provided that the total amount of fines, other
sanctions, and costs imposed by the findings, decision, and order does not
exceed $2,500. If the court is satisfied that the findings, decision, and order
was entered in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5 §§ 1-2.2-1 et seq. and that the defendant had an opportunity for a
hearing under this chapter and for judicial review as provided:
         (a)   The court shall render judgment in favor of the municipality and
against the defendant for the amount indicated in the findings, decision, and
order, plus costs;
         (b)   The judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced in
the same manner as other judgments for recovery of money; and
         (c)   The court may also issue any other orders and injunctions that
are requested by the village to enforce the order of the hearing officer to
correct a code violation.
   (B)   Building code violations.
      (1)   When a compliance administrator finds a code violation while
inspecting a structure or property, he or she shall note the violation on a
multiple copy violation notice indicating:
         (a)   The name and address of the structure;
         (b)   The type and nature of the violation;
         (c)   The date and time the violation was observed;
         (d)   The names of witnesses to the violation;
         (e)   The address of the structure or property where the violation is
observed.
      (2)   Service.
         (a)   The violation report form shall be forwarded to the Code Hearing
Department and a docket number shall be stamped on all copies of the report and
a hearing date shall be noted on the form. The hearing date shall not be less
than 30 nor more than 40 days after the violation is reported. One copy of the
violation report shall be maintained in the files of the Code Hearing
Department and shall become part of the record of the hearing. One copy of the
report shall be returned to the individual issuing the code violations. One
copy of the report form shall be served by first class mail to the defendant
along with a summons commanding the defendant to appear on the specified
hearing date.
         (b)   If the name of the owner of the structure cannot be ascertained
or if service on the owner cannot be made by mail, service may be made on the
owner by posting or nailing a copy of the violation report form on the front
door of the structure where the violation is found, not less than 20 days
before the hearing is scheduled.
      (3)   Defenses to building code violations. It shall be a defense to a
building code violation charged if the owner, his attorney, or any other agent
or representative proves to the hearing officer's satisfaction that:
         (a)   The building code violation alleged in the notice does not in
fact exist or, at the time of the hearing, the violation has been remedied or
removed;
         (b)   The building code violation has been caused by the current
property occupants and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to
maintain the dwelling free of such violations, the current occupants continue
to cause the violations;
         (c)   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the
owner or an agent to all or part of the dwelling for the purpose of correcting
the building code violation.
      (4)   Sanctions applicable to owner; property. The order to correct a
building code violation and the sanction imposed by the village as the result
of a finding of a building code violation under this chapter shall attach to
the property as well as to the owner of the property, so that a finding of a
building code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or
transferring the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner
of property takes subject to the findings, decision, and order of a hearing
officer under this chapter.
   (C)   Parking, standing, or compliance notice violations.
      (1)    A parking, standing, or compliance violation notice shall:
         (a)   Specify the date, time, and place of violation of a parking,
standing, or compliance regulation;
         (b)   Specify the particular regulation violated;
         (c)   Specify the fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late
payment, when so provided by ordinance;
         (d)   Specify the vehicle make and state registration number;
         (e)   Specify the identification number of the person issuing the
notice;
         (f)   State that payment of the indicated fine, and of any applicable
penalty for late payment, shall operate as a final disposition of the
violation;
         (g)   Contain information as to the availability of a hearing in which
the violation may be contested on its merits;
         (h)   Specify the time and manner in which a hearing may be had.
      (2)   Service.
         (a)   Service of the parking, standing, or compliance violation notice
may be achieved by affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an
unlawfully parked vehicle or by handing the notice to the operator of a vehicle
if he/she is present. A person authorized by ordinance to issue and serve
parking, standing, and compliance violation notices shall certify as to the
correctness of the facts entered on the violation notice by signing his/her
name to the notice at the time of service or, in the case of a notice produced
by a computerized device, by signing a single certificate to be kept by the
traffic compliance administrator attesting to the correctness of all notices
produced by the device while it was under his/her control. The original or a
facsimile of the violation notice shall be retained by the traffic compliance
administrator, and there shall be a record kept in the ordinary course of
business. A parking, standing, or compliance violation notice issued, signed,
and served in accordance with this section, or a copy of the notice, shall be
prima facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the
facts shown on the notice. The notice or copy shall be admissible in any
subsequent administrative adjudication or legal proceedings.
         (b)   Service of additional notices may be sent by first class United
States mail, postage prepaid, to the address of the registered owner of the
cited vehicle as recorded with the Secretary of State, or, if any notice to
that address is returned as undeliverable, to the last known address recorded
in a United States Post Office approved database, or, under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5
§ 11-1306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, to the lessee of the cited vehicle at
the last address known to the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of lease,
or, if any notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, to the last
known address recorded in a United States Post Office approved database. The
service shall be deemed complete as of the date of deposit in the United Stated
mail. The notices shall be in the following sequence and shall include but not
be limited to the information specified herein:
            1.   Second notice of violation. This notice shall:
               a.   Specify the date and location of the violation cited in the
parking, standing, or compliance violation notice;
               b.   Specify the particular regulation violated;
               c.   Specify the vehicle make and state registration number;
               d.   Specify the fine and any penalty that may be assessed for
late payment when so provided by ordinance;
               e.   Specify the availability of a hearing in which the
violation may be contested on its merits;
               f.   Specify the time and manner in which the hearing may be
had;
               g.   State that failure either to pay the indicated fine and any
applicable penalty, or to appear at a hearing on the merits in the time and
manner specified, will result in a final determination of violation liability
for the cited violation in the amount of the fine or penalty indicated;
               h.   State that, upon the occurrence of a final determination of
violation liability for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or failure to
exhaust, available administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid
fine or penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the village.
            2.   A notice of final determination of parking, standing, or
compliance violation liability. This notice shall be sent following a final
determination of parking, standing, or compliance violation liability, and the
conclusion of judicial review procedures taken under this section. The notice
shall:
               a.   State that the unpaid fine or penalty is a debt due and
owing the municipality;
               b.   Contain warnings that failure to pay any fine or penalty
due and owing the village within the time specified may result in the village
filing a petition in the circuit court to have the unpaid fine or penalty
rendered a judgment as provided by this section or may result in suspension of
the person’s drivers license for failure to pay fines or penalties for ten or
more parking violations under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 6-306.5 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
Editor’s note:
   ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 6-306.5 was repealed by P.A. 101-652, effective 7-1-
21.
            3.   Notice of impending drivers license suspension. A notice of
impending drivers license suspension shall:
               a.   Be sent to the person liable for any fine or penalty that
remains due and owing on ten or more parking violations;
               b.   State that failure to pay the fine or penalty owing within
45 days of the notice's date will result in the municipality notifying the
Secretary of State that the person is eligible for initiation of suspension
proceedings under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 6-306.5 of the Illinois Vehicle Code;
               c.   State that the person may obtain a photostatic copy of an
original ticket imposing a fine or penalty by sending a self-addressed, stamped
envelope to the municipality along with a request for the copy;
               d.   Be sent by first class United State mail, postage prepaid,
to the address recorded with the Secretary of State, or, if any notice to that
address is returned as undeliverable, to the last known address recorded in a
United States Post Office approved database.
      (3)   Hearings on standing, parking, and condition of vehicles. An
opportunity for a hearing for the registered owner of the vehicle cited in the
parking, standing, or compliance violation notice in which the owner may
contest the merits of the alleged violation, and during which formal or
technical rules of evidence shall not apply, provided, however, that under ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, the lessee of a vehicle
cited in the violation notice likewise shall be provided an opportunity for a
hearing of the same kind afforded the registered owner. The hearings shall be
recorded, and the person conducting the hearing on behalf of the traffic
compliance administrator shall be empowered to administer oaths and to secure
by subpoena both the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production
of relevant books and papers. Persons appearing at a hearing under this section
may be represented by counsel at their expense.
      (4)   Final determinations of violation liability.
         (a)   Final determination. A final determination of violation
liability shall occur following failure to pay the fine or penalty after a
hearing officer's determination of violation liability and the exhaustion of or
failure to exhaust any administrative review procedures provided by ordinance.
Where a person fails to appear at a hearing to contest the alleged violation in
the time and manner specified in a prior mailed notice, the hearing officer's
determination of violation liability shall become final:
            1.   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that
determination; or
            2.   Upon expiration of the period for filing the petition without
a filing having been made.
         (b)   Petition to set aside a determination.
            1.   A petition to set aside a determination of parking, standing,
or compliance violation liability may be filed by a person owing an unpaid fine
or penalty and shall be filed within 30 days of the finding of liability and
ruled upon by the compliance administrator within 30 days thereafter. The
grounds for such a petition are limited to:
               a.   The person not having been the owner or lessee of the cited
vehicle on the date the violation notice was issued;
               b.   The person having already paid the fine or penalty for the
violation in question; and
               c.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a
hearing.
            2.   After the determination of violation liability has been set
aside upon a showing of just cause, the person owing the unpaid fine or penalty
shall be provided with a hearing on the merits for the violation.
      (5)   Procedures for non-residents. If the alleged violator does not
reside within the state, he or she may contest the violation in writing. In
such circumstances, the hearing officer must receive a request in writing from
the non-resident to contest the violation seven days prior to the initial
hearing. If the hearing officer receives such a written request, the non-
resident may submit his or her position, in writing, as to why the issuance of
the violation was improper.
(Ord. 2006-O-2, passed 2-7-06)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 § 1-2.2-20; Ch. 65, Act 5 § 1-
2.2-55; Ch. 65, Act 5 § 11-31.1-4;
    Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-208.3(b)(2); Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-208.3(b)(3); Ch. 625,
Act 5 § 11-208.3(b)(4);
    Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-208.3(b)(5)(i)(ii); Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-208.3(b)(6);
Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-208.3(b)(7);
    Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-208.3(b)(8); Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-208.3(b)(9)
§ 39.07 FINES APPLICABLE TO ALL OFFENSES.
   The following ordinance violations may be heard in an administrative
adjudication as set forth in this chapter. The fines set forth following each
such violation are inserted as an administrative aide to the adjudication
officer and the enforcement personnel of the village and are not intended to
supercede the official fines for such violations, which are set forth in the
code provisions describing the offenses and setting the penalties attributable
thereto.
                Variable Fines            Set Fines - Per Offense
Section Offense (Write Max Amt)           (Check In-House for Priors)
                Fine Minimum Fine Maximum 1st 2nd 3rd 4th
                            Variable Fines          Set Fines - Per Offense
Section     Offense         (Write Max Amt)         (Check In-House for Priors)
                            Fine       Fine Maximum 1st  2nd  3rd  4th
                            Minimum
71.01       No Seat Belts                           $35  $35  $35  $35
            Unattended
72.02       Motor Vehicle                           $25  $50  $500 $500
            (engine
            running)
            No Parking -
72.10       Where                                   $25  $50  $500 $500
            Prohibited
            No Parking -
72.12       Handicapped                             $100 $100 $100 $100
            Only
            No Parking -
72.13       Overnight 2am-                          $25  $50  $500 $500
            6am
            No Parking -
72.15       after Snowfall                          $25  $50  $300 $300
            over 2"
            Bicycles -
73.06       Lights/                                 $100 $200 $300 $300
            equipment
            Snowmobile -
73.32       Age                                     $100 $200 $300 $300
            Requirements
            Snowmobile -
73.33       Hours of                                $100 $200 $300 $300
            Operation
            Snowmobile -
73.34       Restricted                              $100 $200 $300 $300
            Areas
73.35       Snowmobile -                            $100 $200 $300 $300
            Littering
            Snowmobile -
73.36       Towing                                  $100 $200 $300 $300
            (persons/items
            behind)
            Obstructing
74.08       Traffic/walking                         $35  $50  $75  $75
            in Roadway
            No Valid/
77.08       expired                                 $35  $35  $35  $35
            Registration
            Biting or
90.06       Attacking Dogs  $100       $200
            or Other
            Animals
            Control of
90.09       (animal)                                $100 $200 $400 $400
            Defecation
90.10       Inoculation                             $100 $200 $400 $400
            Against Rabies
            Dogs Disturbing
90.11       Quiet or                                $25  $50  $100 $200
            Damaging
            Property
90.15       Dogs Running at                         $100 $200 $400 $400
            Large
            Violation of
90.21       Hen Keeping                             $100 $200 $375
            Regulations
            Keeping Hens
90.21(B)(8) Following Loss                          $200 $400 $750
            of Privilege
93.10       Discharge of                            $25  $50  $100
            fireworks
            Storage of
94.11       Inoperable                              $25  $50  $100 $200
            Vehicles
95.11       Refuse                                  $25  $50  $100 $200
            (uncovered)
95.12       Refuse (removal                         $25  $50  $100 $200
            required)
            Refuse
95.13       (containers to                          $25  $50  $100 $200
            be provided)
95.14       Refuse (Use of                          $25  $50  $100 $200
            Containers)
            Refuse
95.15       (regulations of                         $25  $50  $100 $200
            collectors)
95.16       Littering                               $25  $50  $100
95.16       Refuse (dumping                         $250 $500 $750 $750
            of litter)
            Refuse
95.17       (construction                           $25  $50  $100 $200
            refuse)
            Burning (grass
95.53       fire                                    $25  $50  $100 $200
            regulations)
95.54       Burning                                 $25  $50  $100 $200
            (prohibited)
            Burning
95.55       (bonfire and                            $25  $50  $100 $200
            campfire
            regulations)
96.01       Excessive Noise                         $50  $75  $150
98.10       Advertising;                            $25  $50  $500 $500
            Posting Notices
98.11       Birds and                               $25  $50  $500 $500
            Animals
98.12       Dogs and Cats                           $25  $50  $500 $500
98.13       Riding Animals                          $25  $50  $500 $500
98.14       Begging                                 $25  $50  $500 $500
98.15       Camping                                 $25  $50  $500 $500
98.16       Closing Hours                           $25  $50  $500 $500
98.17       Clothing                                $25  $50  $500 $500
98.18       Disorderly                              $25  $50  $500 $500
            Conduct
98.19       Excavation                              $25  $50  $500 $500
98.20       Fires                                   $25  $50  $500 $500
98.21       Games and                               $25  $50  $500 $500
            Sports
98.22       Improper                                $25  $50  $500 $500
            Behavior
            Community
98.23       Center                                  $25  $50  $500 $500
            Restrictions
98.24       Drugs                                   $25  $50  $500 $500
            Minors;
98.25       Parental                                $25  $50  $500 $500
            Responsibility
98.26       Picnics                                 $25  $50  $500 $500
98.27       Day Camps and                           $25  $50  $500 $500
            Similar Groups
            Protection of
98.28       Property;                               $25  $50  $500 $500
            Reward
98.29       Public Meetings                         $25  $50  $500 $500
98.30       Refuse and                              $25  $50  $500 $500
            Garbage
98.31       Skating and                             $25  $50  $500 $500
            Sledding
98.32       Weapons and                             $25  $50  $500 $500
            Missiles
            Baseball and
98.33       Softball                                $25  $50  $500 $500
            Playing
            Hawking,
98.34       Peddling or                             $25  $50  $500 $500
            Soliciting
            Removal of
98.35       Sand, Gravel or                         $25  $50  $500 $500
            Similar
            Materials
            Driving on
98.40       Other Than                              $25  $50  $500 $500
            Roadway
98.41       Driving While                           $25  $50  $500 $500
            Intoxicated
98.42       Reckless                                $25  $50  $500 $500
            Driving
98.43       Negligent                               $25  $50  $500 $500
            Driving
98.44       Starting                                $25  $50  $500 $500
            Vehicle
98.45       Backing                                 $25  $50  $500 $500
98.46       Equipment                               $25  $50  $500 $500
98.47       Pedestrians                             $25  $50  $500 $500
98.48       Parking                                 $25  $50  $500 $500
98.50       Unattended                              $25  $50  $500 $500
            Motor Vehicles
98.51       Parties to an                           $25  $50  $500 $500
            Offense
98.52       Parking Lots                            $25  $50  $500 $500
            Trespass or
98.60       Entry                                   $25  $50  $500 $500
            Prohibited
98.80       Fishing Hours                           $25  $50  $500 $500
96.81       Game Laws                               $25  $50  $500 $500
96.82       Catch and                               $25  $50  $500 $500
            Release
104.01      Smoking                                 $25  $50  $100 $250
            Regulations
104.02      Vaping                                  $25  $50  $100 $250
            Regulations
            Alcohol Sales
110.33      to Minors       $100       $500
            Prohibited
            Conduct
110.34      Prohibited in   $25        $500
            Bars
            Alcohol Sales
110.39      by Minors       $25        $500
            Prohibited
            Minors
110.40      Forbidden in    $25        $500
            Bars
110.55      BYOB                                    $250 $500 $750 $750
            regulations
            Tobacco Sales
116.54      Restricted to a $100       $500
            Minor
            Possession of
116.59      Tobacco                                 $25  $50  $100 $100
            Products by
            Minor
117.12(A)                                          $100 $250 $500 $750
            Junk Dealers
119.01      (license        $101       $5001
            required)
            Junk Dealers
119.04      (vehicle        $101       $5001
            identification)
119.05      Junk Dealers    $101       $5001
            (junk yards)
119.06      Junk Dealers    $101       $5001
            (nuisance)
125.01      Video Gaming                            $50  $100 $200 $400
130.01      Curfew                                  $25  $50  $100 $100
            violation
130.02      Disorderly      $100       $500
            Conduct
            Disturbing
130.03      Lawful          $25        $500
            Assemblages
130.04      Fighting        $100       $500
130.05      Hunting         $100       $500
130.06      Public          $100       $500
            Intoxication
130.07      Possession of   $150       $500
            Cannabis
130.08      Profanity       $100       $500
130.09      Trapping        $50        $500
130.10      Weapons         $100
130.11      Discharge of    $100       $500
            Firearm
130.12      Vagrancy        $100       $500
130.13      Spitting in     $100       $500
            Public Places
130.14      Articles on     $100       $500
            Window Ledges
            Possession of
130.15      Drug            $150       $500
            Paraphernalia
            Possession/
            Consumption/
130.16      Transpo rt of                           $50  $100 $150 $150
            Alcoholic
            Liquor by a
            Minor
            Contributing to
130.17      the Delinquency $150       $500
            of a Minor
            Destruction of
130.18      Sex Offender    $100       $500
            Notifications
            Public
130.19      Urination or    $150       $500
            Defecation
131.01      Assault         $100       $500
131.02      Battery         $100       $500
131.03      Trespassing     $100       $500
            Minors on
131.04      Railroad        $100       $500
            Property
131.05      Harassment      $100       $100
131.11      Theft           $100       $500
131.12      Theft by        $150-$250  $500-$750
            Deception
131.13      Offensive       $100       $500
            Retail Theft
131.14      Theft of launch                         $50  $100 $250 $500
            ramp services
131.26      Vandalism       $100       $1003
            Prohibited
131.27      Parental        $75        $753
            Responsibility
131.28      Graffiti        $100       $1003
            Prohibited
132.01      Resisting a     $200       $500
            Police Officer
            Obstructing
132.02      Service of      $150       $500
            Process
132.03      Obstruction of  $150       $500
            Justice
            Concealing or
132.04      Aiding a        $150       $500
            Fugitive
132.05      Escape          $200       $500
132.06      Aiding Escape   $200       $500
132.07      Refusing to Aid $150       $500
            an Officer
132.08      Truancy                                 $25  $50  $100 $100
            Impersonation
132.09      of Officer or   $200       $500
            Employee
            Interference
132.10      with Officer or $150       $500
            Employee
132.11      False Fire      $100       $200
            Alarms
133.01      Indecent        $100       $500
            Conduct
133.02      Bathing Suit    $100       $500
            Required
133.10      Practice        $200       $500
133.11      Solicitation    $200       $500
133.12      House of III    $200       $500
            Fame
133.20      Obscenity       $100       $500
133.21      Community       $100       $500
            Standards
            Race Track
            Messenger
134.01      Services and    $50        $500
            Betting Parlors
            Prohibited
134.02      Gambling        $20        $200
            Prohibited
            Fish and
135.03      Wildlife        ILCS Fines ILCS Fines
            Enforcement
155.01      Fences (permit  $202       $2002
            required)
155.02      Fences          $202       $2002
            (location)
            Fences
155.03      (obstruction of $202       $2002
            view at
            intersection)
            Fences (barbed
155.04      wire/electric   $202       $2002
            fence)
            Fences
155.05      (permitted      $202       $2002
            heights)
155.06      Fences (support $202       $2002
            posts/beams)
            Fences
155.07      (construction   $202       $2002
            on easement)
            Trailers (on
157.02      private/public  $202       $2002
            property)
            Trailers
157.03      (permit         $202       $2002
            required)
            Trailers
157.04      (parking on     $202       $2002
            grass or dirt)
11-1427     ATV (illegal    ILCS Fines ILCS Fines
            operation)4
            Sound and
12-611      Amplification   ILCS Fines ILCS Fines
            Systems4
12-610.5    Registration    ILCS Fines ILCS Fines
            Plate Covers4
12-608      Bumpers4        ILCS Fines ILCS Fines
            Mufflers
12-602      (prevention of  ILCS Fines ILCS Fines
            noise)4
            Windshields
12-503      (obstruction/   ILCS Fines ILCS Fines
            wipers)4
            Tires
            (operating
12-405      condition of    ILCS Fines ILCS Fines
            pneumatic
            tires)4
            Spot Lamps and
12-207      Auxiliary       ILCS Fines ILCS Fines
            Driving Lamps4
12-201      Lighted Lamps   ILCS Fines ILCS Fines
            Required4
1   Fines are per day, commencing on the 8th day after notice.
2   Fines are per day. Each day is a separate offense.
3   Plus restitution.
4   The entire Illinois Vehicle Code has been adopted as a codified ordinance
of the village in §
75.01 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code, as permitted by ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5 § 20-204. References are to the parallel section of that code.
 
Ord. 2006-O-2, passed 2-7-06; Am. Ord. 2006-O-13, passed 6-6-06; Am. Ord. 2009-
O-14, passed 7-21-09; Am. Ord. 2012-O-15, passed 6-19-12; Am. Ord. 12-O-22,
passed 10-16-12; Am. Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14; Am. Ord. 2015-O-1, passed
2-3-15; Am. Ord. 2015-O-11, passed 4-21-15; Am. Ord. 2015-O-22, passed 10-6-15;
Am. Ord. 2016-O-7, passed 6-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 8-2-16; Am. Ord.
2018-O-6, passed 4-17-18)
§ 39.08 COSTS TO BE TAXED.
   In addition to any fine imposed hereunder, the hearing officer shall, upon a
finding of guilty of any offense charged, tax the sum of $25 per offense as
costs. The costs so collected shall be used to defray the expense of staffing,
maintaining, administering, and providing security for the adjudication court
system. The Finance Director shall maintain records showing the actual costs of
operation once established and shall report periodically to the Village Board
on the balance between costs collected and the expense of operations so that
the corporate authorities may review the amount of costs imposed and adjust
these amounts from time to time to ensure that they are as close as practicable
to the actual expenses of operation.
(Ord. 2006-O-2, passed 2-7-06)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER AND WATER
      
APPENDIX: APPLICATION FORM FOR BUILDING SEWER AND/OR WATER SERVICE
      
51.   SEWER AND WATER IMPROVEMENTS
      
52.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
APPENDIX: FORMS AND EXHIBITS
      
53.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
54.   CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
      
55.   CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
      
56.   ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
CHAPTER 50: SEWER AND WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Combined sewerage and waterworks system
   
50.003   Sewerage and waterworks department; superintendent
   
50.004   Meter readers; badges
   
50.005   Inspectors; powers and duties
   
50.006   Billing procedure
   
50.007   Delinquent bills; hearing procedure
   
50.008   Authority to file lien for unpaid bills; foreclosure
   
50.009   Disposition of revenues
   
50.010   Notice of rates
   
50.011   Unauthorized use of plumber's name
   
50.012   Streets and sidewalks
   
50.013   Water restrictions; emergency water use plan
   
50.014   Bad checks
   
50.015   Obstruction of watercourses
   
50.016   Abandoned wells
Combined System Service Charges
   
50.020   Authority to set water and sewer charges
   
50.021   Types of service charges
   
50.022   Computation of basic water user charge
   
50.023   Computation of basic sewer user charge
   
50.024   Computation of debt service charge
   
50.025   Computation of capital improvement charge
   
50.026   Computation of surcharge and service charge for wastewater
   
50.027   Periodic review of service charge rates
   
50.028   Measurement of water consumption as basis for rates
   
50.029   Municipal usage
   
50.030   Automatic adjustments
   
50.031   Sewer service rates for properties without water service
   
50.032   Surcharge rates
   
50.033   Appeals
   
50.034   Senior citizens’ water service discount
   
50.035   Chart of applicable rates
Public Sewer and Water Supply Use
   
50.040   Unsanitary deposits prohibited
   
50.041   Treatment of discharge required
   
50.042   Construction of private sewage disposal facility unlawful
   
50.043   Purchase of service from other than village prohibited
   
50.044   Connection to village system required
   
50.045   Unlawful to bypass, disconnect or disable meter
Private Sewage Disposal
   
50.050   Unavailability of public system
   
50.051   Permit required
   
50.052   Inspection
   
50.053   Compliance with state recommendations
   
50.054   Public sewers becoming available
   
50.055   Sanitary operation; maintenance
   
50.056   Additional requirements
Building Sewers and Water Service
   
50.065   Permit required
   
50.066   Application
   
50.067   Availability for tap-on purposes
   
50.068   Cash deposit and bond; insurance
   
50.069   Fraudulent representations in permit application
   
50.070   Sufficient downstream sewerage facilities required
   
50.071   Classes of building sewer permits
   
50.072   Service connection requirements
Permit and Connection Fees
   
50.080   Public sanitary sewer connection charges
   
50.081   Public water connection charges
   
50.082   Stub-in fees
   
50.083   Additional charges; payment
   
50.084   Corner lot owners
   
50.085   Costs and expenses to be borne by property owners
   
50.086   Cost recapture
   
50.087   Water main testing
Connection and Construction Requirements
   
50.095   Connection requirements
   
50.096   Tapping mains
   
50.097   Multiple buildings on one lot
   
50.098   Old building sewers
   
50.099   Defective sewers
   
50.100   Disposal into sewers regulated
   
50.101   Inspections
   
50.102   Manholes
   
50.103   Excavations
   
50.104   Elevation of connection
   
50.105   Building sewer construction requirements
   
50.106   Water service construction requirements
   
50.107   Water cross-connections not permitted
   
50.108   Turning on water seals
Use of Public Sewers
   
50.115   Discharges into sanitary sewer
   
50.116   Stormwater and unpolluted drainage
   
50.117   Prohibited discharges
   
50.118   Industrial cost recovery system
   
50.119   Harmful substances prohibited
   
50.120   North Shore Sanitary District; powers and duties
   
50.121   Interceptors required when necessary
   
50.122   Maintenance of preliminary treatment facilities
   
50.123   Control manholes
   
50.124   Analyses of waters and wastes
   
50.125   Standards for measurements and tests
   
50.126   Special agreements
Drainage of Surface Storm Water
   
50.130   Definitions
   
50.131   Discharges into sanitary sewer
   
50.132   Neighboring and public properties
   
50.133   Connection of drains
Improvements
   
50.140   Evidence of cost and operation
   
50.141   Waiver of liability
   
50.142   Additional sums contributed by intervening owners
   
50.143   Extension to contiguous property
Cross-Connection Control
   
50.150   Purpose
   
50.151   Application
   
50.152   Policy
   
50.153   Definitions
   
50.154   Water system
   
50.155   Cross-connection prohibited
   
50.156   Survey and investigations
   
50.157   Where protection is required
   
50.158   Type of protection required
   
50.159   Backflow prevention devices
   
50.160   Inspection and maintenance
   
50.161   Booster pumps
   
50.162   Violations
 
   
50.999   Penalty
 
   
Appendix: Application form for building sewer and/or water service
Cross-reference:
   Illicit discharges and connections, see
Chapter 56
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Note that
SHALL is mandatory, while MAY is permissible.
      (1)   APPLICANT. An owner (or owners) of premises who has made written
application to the President and Board of Trustees for permission to have a
sewer connection, a water service connection, or a water or sewer extension
installed.
      (2)   PERSON. Any and all persons, whether natural or artificial,
including any individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation,
association, society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other
entity.
      (3)   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements
issued by the Administrator or, where appropriate by the Director after
enactment of the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to
regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the Federal
Act.
      (4)   SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES. Applicable definitions in this
category are as follows:
         (a)   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest piping of a drainage
system which receives the waste from other drainage pipes inside the walls of
the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved point of
discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
         (b)   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the
public sewer or other place of disposal. This reference shall be understood to
include the "whole" of stubs, taps, connections, valves, pipes, joints, and
sleeves connecting or joining the sewer main to the premises served.
         (c)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to
receive wastewater, storm, surface, and groundwater drainage.
         (d)   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land
owned by others.
         (e)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction
of the village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village
boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the
village sanitary sewer system, even through those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
         (f)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes
or a combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and groundwaters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
         (g)   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste
liquids, including storm, surface, and groundwater drainage.
         (h)   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the
collection, transportation, and pumping of sewage.
         (i)   SEWER EXTENSION. A sanitary sewer main installed by a private
person (or persons), firm, association, corporation, or partnership for the
purpose of extending the original sanitary sewer mains of the village which
have been extended from time to time.
         (j)   SEWER STUB. A sanitary sewer line or pipe extending from the
sanitary sewer main or lateral to approximately the property line of the
premises to be served (ordinarily within seven feet of the property line).
         (k)   SEWER TAP. The operation of putting a hole into a "main" pipe to
provide for the flow of sewage from the premises being served.
         (1)   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface, and
groundwater drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than
unpolluted cooling water.
         (m)   STORMWATER RUNOFF. That portion of the precipitation that is
drained into the sewers.
      (5)   TREATMENT. Applicable definitions in this category are as follows:
         (a)   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
         (b)   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and
structures for treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes
used as synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
      (6)   TYPES OF CHARGES. Applicable definitions in this category are as
follows:
         (a)   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of
the combined sewerage and waterworks system.
         (b)   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period
for payment of interest, principal, and coverage of the loan, bond, or the like
which is outstanding and shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service
by the number of users connected to the combined sewerage and waterworks
system.
         (c)   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service
life of the combined sewerage and waterworks system to maintain the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed. The term
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
         (d)   SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the combined sewerage and waterworks system. The service charge shall
be computed as hereinafter outlined in this chapter and shall consist of the
total or the basic user charge, the debt service charge, and a surcharge if
applicable.
         (e)   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge
and debt service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are
greater in strength than the concentration values established in this chapter.
         (f)   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection
system and/or treatment works will be operated and shall be 20 years from the
date of start-up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
         (g)   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the combined sewerage
and waterworks system for the cost of operation and maintenance.
         (h)   VILLAGE OF WINTHROP HARBOR SEWERAGE AND WATERWORKS FUND. The
principal accounting designation for all revenues received in the operation of
the combined sewerage and waterworks system.
      (7)   USER TYPES. Applicable definitions in this category are as follows:
         (a)   COMMERCIAL USER. Shall include transit lodging, retail and
wholesale establishments, or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering
services.
         (b)   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which
industrial wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an
interior drop. The purpose of a control manhole is to provide access for the
village representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
         (c)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any non-governmental user of publicly-owned
treatment works identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual,
1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the
following divisions:
            1. Division A: Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing.
            2. Division B: Mining.
            3. Division D: Manufacturing.
            4. Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Services.
            5. Division I: Services.
This term shall also include establishments engaged in manufacturing activities
involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of substance
into products. A user in the Divisions listed above may be excluded if it is
determined by the approving authority that it will introduce primarily
segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
         (d)   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Shall include schools,
hospitals, churches, penal institutions, and users associated with federal,
state, and local governments.
         (e)   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile
homes, apartments, and permanent multi-family dwellings.
         (f)   USER CLASS. The type of user, RESIDENTIAL, INSTITUTIONAL/
GOVERNMENTAL, COMMERCIAL, or INDUSTRIAL as defined herein.
      (8)   WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS. Applicable definitions in this
category are as follows:
         (a)   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C., expressed in milligrams per liter.
         (b)   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
         (c)   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that
it will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved
pretreatment facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if
it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the
collection system.
         (d)   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
         (e)   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance
discharge, permitted to flow, or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing,
commercial, or business establishment or process or from the development,
recovery, or processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary
sewage.
         (f)   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly-
owned treatment works that has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average
work day; or has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste; or has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic
amounts as defined in Standards issued under section 307 (a) of the Federal
Act; or is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
         (g)   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water.
It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly (parts per million) to which it
is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
         (h)   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-
ion concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in "Standard
Methods".
         (i)   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
         (j)   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term use to evaluate the impact of
industrial or other waste on a treatment works or stream, in units as
determined by the North Shore Sanitary District.
         (k)   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27
centimeters) in any dimension.
         (l)   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
         (m)   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
         (n)   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set
forth in the most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater" published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
         (o)   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are
removable by a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of
suspended solids shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
"Standard Methods".
         (p)   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of a quality equal to or better than the
effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
         (q)   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this
standpoint, of course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that
may be present.
         (r)   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution
Regulations of Illinois.
      (9)   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes
required to collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and
transport effluent to a watercourse.
      (10)   WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS. Applicable definitions in this
category are as follows:
         (a)   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
         (b)   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
      (11)   WATER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES. Applicable definitions in this
category are as follows:
         (a)   CURB STOP or BUFFALO BOX. The valve and box located
approximately seven feet off the property line installed in the water service
pipe, that provides the means of shutting off the water supply to the premises
served.
         (b)   WATER EXTENSION. A water main installed by a private person (or
persons), firm, association, corporation, or partnership for the purpose of
extending the original water mains of the village.
         (c)   WATER SERVICE. The water pipe from the main to the premises
being served. This reference is made to the "whole" of stubs, taps,
connections, valves, pipes, joints, and sleeves connecting or joining the water
main to the premises served.
         (d)   WATER STUB. That part of the service extending from the water
main or lateral to a point approximately seven feet from the property line, at
which point the curb stop shall be located.
         (e)   WATER TAP. The operation of installing a sleeve and/or valve
stop on the water main and "tapping" or drilling a hole into the main to
provide for the flow of water from the water main to the premises being served.
   (B)   Definitions regarding local, state, and federal government references
shall be as follows:
      (1)   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT REFERENCES AND DEFINITIONS:
         (a)   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency.
         (b)   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.
1251 et seq.) as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of
Amendments of 1972 (Pub. 1. 92-500 and Pub. 1. 93-243).
         (c)   FEDERAL GRANT. The United States government's participation in
the financing of the construction of treatment works as provided for by Title
II Grants for Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing
regulations.
      (2)   LOCAL GOVERNMENT REFERENCES AND DEFINITIONS:
         (a)   APPROVING AUTHORITY. That person designated by the village as
having jurisdiction over various matters.
         (b)   ORDINANCE or CHAPTER. This chapter.
         (c)   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Public Works, who is
appointed by the President and Board of Trustees to verify compliance with the
provisions of this chapter where stated and supervise the management of said
combined sewerage and waterworks system.
         (d)   VILLAGE. That area within the corporate limits of the Village of
Winthrop Harbor, Lake County, Illinois.
         (e)   VILLAGE BOARD. The President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Winthrop Harbor.
      (3)   STATE GOVERNMENT REFERENCES AND DEFINITIONS:
         (a)   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection
agency.
         (b)   REVISED CITIES AND VILLAGES ACT. Effective January 1, 1942,
shall mean that all monies received from the combined sewerage and waterworks
system be deposited into a fund designated as the "Village of Winthrop Harbor
Sewerage and Waterworks Fund".
         (c)   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
         (d)   STATE GRANT. The State of Illinois' participation in the
financing of the construction of treatment works as provided for by the
Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the
Secretary of State of the State of Illinois.
('79 Code, § 1101) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1986-O-14, passed
7-1-86)
§ 50.002 COMBINED SEWERAGE AND WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   The sanitary sewerage and waterworks system of the village shall be owned,
maintained, and operated as a combined utility and hereafter in this chapter
shall be referred to as the sewerage and waterworks system. The storm sewer
system of the village shall be owned, maintained, and operated as a part of the
combined sewerage and waterworks system of the village.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.003 SEWERAGE AND WATERWORKS DEPARTMENT; SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   There shall be a Superintendent of the Sewerage and Waterworks
Department to be appointed by the President and Board of Trustees who shall
have supervision, management, and control, subject to the Village Board, over
all buildings and equipment used and the furnishings of sewerage and water
service in the village, shall see that the object and purposes of the Sewerage
and Waterworks Department are carried out and that the sewerage and waterworks
system is conducted on an economical businesslike basis. For this purpose, it
shall be the duty of the Superintendent and all employees of said Department to
enforce all of the provisions of this chapter and to observe, obey, and carry
out the orders and directions of the Board of Trustees. The Superintendent
shall prepare and keep in his office a complete atlas of the sewerage and
waterworks system, together with all valves, hydrants, water service
connections, and other appurtenances distinctly recorded therein.
   (B)   The Superintendent and employees of the Sewerage and Waterworks
Department shall receive as compensation for their services, amounts to be
fixed by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall submit reports in writing to the Village
President and the Board of Trustees as directed.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.004 METER READERS; BADGES.
   (A)   The Superintendent, or such employees of the Sewerage and Waterworks
Department as he shall direct, shall read water and/or sewage meters and shall
perform such other duties as now are or may hereafter be imposed upon him by
law or the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   Any employee engaged as a meter reader or as a repair person for
meters whose duty calls for trips to and admission to private homes or premises
in the village, shall wear in a prominent place on his person a badge which
shall designate his employment and employer, and shall carry an identification
card while engaged in such duties.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.005 INSPECTORS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Employees of the combined system shall have the right of access to any
premises served by the system for the purpose of reading water or sewage meters
at regular prescribed intervals or for the purpose of making inspections in
order to maintain in good condition and provide for the protection of said
combined system and the efficient management thereof. Where such inspections
are not of an immediate or urgent nature, employees of the combined system
shall arrange for appointments mutually convenient both to the persons of the
premises served and said employees. Any person refusing the right to permit
said employees of the combined system the above described right of access to
his premises shall be subject to a penalty as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the combined
system, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers, waterway, or facilities for waste treatment.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties hereinbefore
mentioned, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the village shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the village
employees. Further, the village shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by village employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
50.123.
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the combined system lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (E)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
shall have the power, duty and authority, with or without prior notice, to shut
off and seal any and all water service to any residence or other building found
or determined to have a water or sewer meter that has been bypassed, disabled
or disconnected, and no such shut off or sealed water service shall be
reconnected until the owner or occupant of the premises shall pay to new “tap
on” charge as provided in §
50.081, and shall provide proof that the water, sewer or combined meter has
been properly reconnected or repaired and that any bypass shall have been
permanently removed from the system. The owner or occupant shall also be
subject to fines and penalties as set forth in §§
50.045 and
50.999.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord 2002-O-15, passed 4-
2-02) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.006 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Rates or charges for service for the combined system shall be payable
monthly or quarterly depending on the classification of service for which bills
are rendered.
   (B)   The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such
premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant, and user of the
services are jointly and severally liable therefor to the village. Irrespective
of any change in ownership of premises, each parcel of real estate for which
application for building sewer and water service has been filed and accepted by
the village shall be liable for the payment of the monthly or quarterly charge
for service.
   (C)   Bills for the combined system shall be sent out by the Village Clerk
on the first day of the month or quarter succeeding the period for which the
service is billed.
   (D)   All bills for service are due and payable 20 days after being sent
out. A penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not paid by the twentieth day
after they have been rendered.
   (E)   A deposit of $100 shall be paid by any person or property owner
seeking to have water service turned on after May 15, 2008, including any
person seeking to re-establish water service where he or she has failed to pay
his or her water bill and had service cut off. At the time of a final reading,
any remaining unpaid balance then due for water service will be deducted and
the remainder turned over to the property owner or tenant who posted the
deposit. If the deposit is insufficient to cover the remaining unpaid balance
then due, the deposit shall be applied to the balance, but the owner or
occupant of the property shall remain liable for the remaining unpaid balance
due and shall be subject to collection procedures set forth elsewhere in this
chapter.
   (F)   Final readings shall be done as close as practical to the date of any
closing of the sale of any property or the move-out of any tenant. When a final
reading is done, water service shall be cut off and the new owner, landlord or
new tenant shall be required to contact the village to re-establish service,
and in all such events, a new deposit shall be paid prior to water being turned
on again. It shall be the duty of landlords owning rental properties connected
to the water system to advise the Village Clerk promptly whenever any tenant
moves out of a building connected to the village water system. If a landlord
shall fail to promptly so advise the Clerk, he or she shall be guilty of
violating this chapter and shall be fined pursuant to §
50.999(A). For the purposes of this division (F), PROMPTLY means at least one
week prior to the move-out, or, in the event the tenant moves out without prior
notice, within a week of the landlord learning that the tenant had left the
premises, and in any event prior to a new tenant moving in.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 2008-O-10, passed
5-6-08)
§ 50.007 DELINQUENT BILLS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any user who has failed to pay the bill for water and/or sewer service
within 15 days after the due date thereof is hereby declared to be delinquent.
Thereupon, the hearing officer, as hereinafter provided for, shall cause a
written notice of delinquency to be served by first class mail upon the
delinquent user setting forth the time and place of the hearing. The hearing
shall be set no less than 14 days nor more than 21 days thereafter. If no
response is made by the hearing date, and the bill remains unpaid, the
Superintendent shall immediately thereafter cut off water service to the
building.
   (B)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises, and
the Village Clerk shall have notice of that fact, a copy of the notice
described in division (A) shall be served on the owner at the same time and in
the same manner as the notice is served on the user.
   (C)   At the time and place of the hearing, the hearing officer shall give
the delinquent user an opportunity to be heard and to present any and all
evidence, including testimony on the user’s behalf. The records of payment for
the water and/or sewer service by the user, as provided and given to the
hearing officer by the office of the Village Clerk, shall be prima facie
evidence that the bill is due, unpaid, and delinquent. All witnesses, including
the delinquent user, shall be sworn prior to giving any testimony.
   (D)   The hearing officer, within five days after such hearing, if the
officer determines after such hearing that the user is, in fact, delinquent in
payment of the bill for water and/or sewer services, and that the water service
of the user should be discontinued, shut off, and terminated, shall so state
the basis or reasons for such termination in a written order of termination,
and shall serve a copy of such order upon the user within five days after the
hearing. The order shall also state the date when the water service shall be
shut off and terminated, the date to be no later than ten days after the
hearing date.
   (E)   The hearing officer shall be any employee or officer of the village
and shall be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the
majority of the Village Board of Trustees. The hearing officer shall serve
until his or her successor has been appointed and is qualified.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 2008-O-10, passed
5-6-08)
§ 50.008 AUTHORITY TO FILE LIEN FOR UNPAID BILLS; FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   Whenever a bill for water and/or sewer service remains unpaid for 60
days for monthly service or 60 days for quarterly service after it has been
rendered, the Village Clerk shall record with the County Recorder of Deeds a
notice of lien. This notice shall contain the legal description of the premises
served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the village claims a
lien for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period
covered by the bill. In addition to the amount of the charges for water, the
village shall be entitled to collect interest at the rate provided for
judgments prescribed by ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-1303 or any successor statute,
and such interest shall commence running from the date of recording of the
notice of lien up through and including the date of payment in full of the
entire amount of the lien. Further, the village shall be entitled to
reimbursement for the entire expense of collection of the lien, including, but
not limited to, all attorney’s fees, court costs, title searches, recording
charges, fees for service of process and court reporter’s fees for transcripts
or copies.
   (B)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and
the Village Clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of
the premises if his or her address is known to the Clerk, whenever such bill
remains unpaid for the period of 60 days for a monthly bill or 60 days for a
quarterly bill after it has been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the Village Clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills.
   (D)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-
payment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the
charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory
liens. Such foreclosure shall be by a complaint in chancery brought in the name
of the village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
institute proceedings in any court having jurisdiction over such matters
against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid 60 days in the case
of a monthly bill or 60 days in the case of a quarterly bill after it has been
rendered.
   (E)   At any time before or after the hearing is held, at any time before or
after notice of termination, and at any time after termination, the delinquent
user shall have the right to have said services reinstated upon payment of the
delinquent bill in full plus any necessary costs assessed for the conduct of
the hearing and for labor and materials necessarily required to terminate and
reinstate the water service of said user, in the amount as now or hereinafter
provided by ordinance of the village, or as now or hereinafter determined by
the President and Board of Trustees of the village.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 2008-O-21, passed
9-2-08)
§ 50.009 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the combined sewerage
and waterworks system shall be held by the Village Clerk separate and apart
from all other funds and separate and apart between water and sewer accounts of
the village, and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be
delivered to the Village Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the
same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed
by the President and Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1986-O-14, passed
7-1-86)
§ 50.010 NOTICE OF RATES.
   A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the Village Clerk, shall be
filed in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds and shall be deemed notice
to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage system of the
village on their properties. Notice of rates shall also include at least
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, the rate and that portion of the
user charges which are attributable to wastewater treatment services.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1986-O-14, passed
7-1-86)
§ 50.011 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PLUMBER'S NAME.
   No plumber shall allow his name to be used by any other person or party,
directly or indirectly, for the purpose of obtaining permits or doing any work
under that plumber's license.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.012 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   For street right-of-way and street dedication requirements, see
Chapter 99.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.013 WATER RESTRICTIONS; EMERGENCY WATER USE PLAN.
   (A)   During any declared water shortage crisis by federal, state or local
government officials, the village will take the following necessary measures to
reduce water demand to a minimum level necessary to maintain the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the village as follows, to wit:
      (1)   Place a ban on all external residential water uses including, but
not limited thereto, watering of lawn, outdoor swimming pools and washing of
cars;
      (2)   Impose industrial use restrictions including, but not limited to,
the shutting down of all water using processes;
      (3)   Require the closing and shutting down of all commercial car washes
of any type;
      (4)   Impose reasonable daily per capita consumption limits on all
residents;
      (5)   Require the installation of water-saving devices including, but not
limited to, shower head flow restrictors and toilet tank displacement reducers;
and
      (6)   Institute and carry out consumer education programs.
   (B)   During the period of May 15 through September 15 of each calendar
year, lawn sprinkling (meaning the transfer of water by means of hoses, tubing,
pipes or otherwise from any water source under the control of the Public Works
Department to any lawn or any outdoor plants or vegetation) is hereby limited
as follows:
      (1)   The residents of the village shall limit lawn sprinkling to every
other day, with residents with odd numbered addresses watering their premises
only on odd numbered days, and even numbered addresses watering their premises
only on even numbered days.
      (2)   Lawn sprinkling is prohibited between noon and 6:00 p.m.
   (C)   Failure to obey an order to limit or cease use of water during a
declared water shortage crisis, or performing lawn sprinkling on a day other
than one assigned to a premises by §
50.013, or between the hours of 12:00 o'clock noon and 6:00 o'clock p.m. in
violation of §
50.013, shall constitute a violation of this section.
   (D)   Any person, corporation, partnership or entity who violates this
section shall be fined as set forth in §
50.999. In addition, the Mayor may limit or cut off the water supply to any
structure or premises which fails to comply with the terms and conditions of
this section with or without notice, until said structure and all facilities
appurtenant thereto comply with the standards of this section, or until the end
of a declared water shortage crisis.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Watering using hand held devices will be permitted at any time.
      (2)   The watering of new landscaping for not more than 14 consecutive
days between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. with automatic and/or hand
held watering devices may be permitted upon proper permit by the village.
(Ord. 1990-O-21, passed 8-8-90)
§ 50.014 BAD CHECKS.
   For provisions concerning the disposition of bad checks, see §
36.01.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.015 OBSTRUCTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person, firm, or corporation to
obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in the village.
('79 Code, § 1102) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.016 ABANDONED WELLS.
   (A)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DEPARTMENT. The Lake County Health Department.
      (2)   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. Any supply which provides water for drinking,
culinary and sanitary purposes and serves an owner-occupied single-family
dwelling.
      (3)   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system for the provision to the public of
piped water for human consumption of the system has at least 15 service
connections or regularly serves an average of at least 25 individuals daily at
least 60 days per year. The term PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM includes any collection,
treatment, storage or distribution facilities under control of the operator of
such system and any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under
such control which are used primarily in connection with such system.
   (B)   Abandonment of wells.
      (1)   The owner of a water well, boring or monitoring well shall assure
that such well is sealed within 30 days after it is abandoned and no longer
used for the purpose for which it was intended. The Department shall grant an
extension of this time provided the owner submits a written request to the
Department indicating the reasons for the request and an estimate of time in
which the well will be sealed. In granting an extension, the Department must be
assured that applicable protective measures will be taken and the methods and
materials will be in compliance with the Act and this section. Applicable
protective measures may include ensuring sources of contamination are down
grade from the water source or isolation of the potential source of
contamination in such a manner as to prevent a route of contamination of the
ground water, or isolating the potential source of contamination to prevent
accidental introduction of contaminants into ground water.
      (2)   After a property is connected to a public water system, all
existing private water systems shall be properly sealed in accordance with the
Illinois Water Well Construction Code.
      (3)   Wells shall be sealed by a licensed water well driller.
   (C)   Sealing requirements. Water wells, borings or monitoring wells which
are abandoned shall be sealed by placing the sealing materials from the bottom
of the well to the surface by methods that will avoid segregation or dilution
of material in accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Noncreviced, consolidated formations. Wells extending into
noncreviced sandstone, or other water-bearing consolidated formations shall be
sealed by filling the well with disinfected clean sand free of mud or dirt, or
pea gravel to the top of the water bearing formation or to within ten feet of
the casing, whichever is less. Disinfection shall be accomplished by treating
the area of the well which penetrates the aquifer. Neat cement containing
betonite, aquajel or similar materials from 2% to 6% by weight or pure
bentonite in any form shall be placed for a minimum of ten feet above this
point or to the top of the water-bearing formation, whichever is greater. A
clay slurry or impervious material shall be used to fill the upper part of the
well to the surface.
      (2)   Creviced formations. Wells extended into creviced formations shall
be sealed by filling with disinfected clean pea gravel to the top of the water-
bearing formation or to within ten feet of the casing whichever is less. Neat
cement containing bentonite, aquajel or similar materials from 2% to 6% by
weight, or pure bentonite in any form shall be placed for a minimum of ten feet
above this point or to the top of the aquafier, whichever is greater. A clay
slurry or impervious material shall be used to fill the upper part of the well
to the surface.
      (3)   Unconsolidated formations. In the event the water-bearing formation
consists of coarse gravel and producing wells are located nearby, the well
shall be sealed by filling with disinfected clean pea gravel to the top of the
water-bearing formation. Neat cement containing bentonite, aquajel or similar
materials from 2% to 6% by weight, or pure bentonite in any form shall be
placed for a minimum of ten feet above this point. Clay or impervious material
shall be used to fill the remaining upper part of the well to the surface.
Abandoned wells extending only into unconsolidated formations near the surface
can be sealed by completely filling with concrete, cement grout, neat cement or
clay.
      (4)   More than one water-bearing formation. Where wells extend into more
than one water- bearing formation, each water-bearing formation shall be sealed
independently in the manner described in this section depending upon the type
of formation encountered. A neat cement plug shall be placed a minimum of ten
feet above and below all intermittent water-bearing formations. Disinfected
clean pea gravel shall be placed in each water-bearing formation between plugs.
A clay slurry or other impervious materials shall be used to fill all other
parts of the well between plugs and the upper part of the well to the surface.
      (5)   Artesian wells. In such wells, a cement retainer shall be used with
pressure grouting equipment utilized to place cement grout. Neat cement shall
be placed for a minimum of ten feet above the water-bearing formation. A clay
slurry or other impervious materials shall be used to fill the upper part of
the well to the surface.
      (6)   Where the well casing consists of brick, stone, concrete blocks,
porous tile or other porous material, the casing shall be removed to a depth of
at least ten feet below the surface.
   (D)   Nonproducing well. Where a water well is drilled and a water-bearing
formation is not located, the water well shall be filled with clay, drill
cuttings or neat cement containing bentonite, aquajel or similar materials from
2% to 6% by weight, or pure bentonite in any form by the water well driller not
more than ten calendar days after the well has been drilled.
   (E)   The well casing shall be removed to at least three feet below the
final grade.
   (F)   Notification. In addition to the notification requirements outlined in
the Illinois Water Well Construction Code, the village shall be notified by
telephone or in writing at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of any work
to seal a potable water or monitoring well.
      (1)   Location of well.
      (2)   Type of sealing method used.
      (3)   Date the well was sealed.
      (4)   Type of well (boring, dug or drilled).
      (5)   Whether the formation is clear of obstructions.
      (6)   Casing record (explanation of the required removal).
      (7)   Water well drillers license number and name.
      (8)   Written report on file with the village.
(Ord. 1993-O-01, passed 3-16-93) Penalty, see §
50.999
COMBINED SYSTEM SERVICE CHARGES
§ 50.020 AUTHORITY TO SET WATER AND SEWER CHARGES.
   From and after January 1, 2025, all consumers, users, and owners or
occupants of properties in the village connected to the water and/or sewage
system shall pay rates for the use and services of the waterworks and sewerage
system in such manner and such amounts as shall be prescribed by ordinance by
the President and Board of Trustees from time to time. Some of these rates are
based upon the amount of water consumed as shown by the water meters installed
in the various properties. Other charges will be established on a per-user
basis because all users benefit from an efficient system which provides clean
water and sanitarily removes sewage. Additionally, users outside the municipal
boundaries may be charged more than users within those boundaries, both due to
the expense of supporting service to their usage points, and because they do
not otherwise contribute to the village's tax base. These rates are in the
amounts described in the Chart of Applicable Rates set forth in § 50.035 of
this code.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.021 TYPES OF SERVICE CHARGES.
   The service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the combined
systems facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user charge for
operation and maintenance plus routine repairs and maintenance, a debt service
charge, a capital improvement charge and a sewage surcharge if applicable.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.022 COMPUTATION OF BASIC WATER USER CHARGE.
   The basic user charge for water shall be based on the cost of water as
provided by the Lake County Public Water District, exclusive of any charges
separately made for debt service. The Village Board shall determine an amount
appropriate to fairly compensate the combined system for all costs of operation
and routine maintenance, including anticipated systemic water losses, personnel
salaries, equipment costs, software, billing systems and all other expenses
required, together with an amount deemed sufficient to provide adequate reserve
funds to meet expenses such as water main breaks which are difficult or
impossible to predict with accuracy. The basic water charge shall be based on
1,000 gallon units drawn by users of the combined system and shall be billed to
each user accordingly.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.023 COMPUTATION OF BASIC SEWAGE USER CHARGE.
   (A)   The basic user charge for the sewer portion of the combined system
shall be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters
for wastes. The basic user charge shall be used for wastewater having normal
concentrations as determined by the North Shore Sanitary District.
   (B)   The basic user charge shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs, plus routine anticipated replacement, and shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
      (2)   Establish the proportion of estimated costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, suspended solids, and BOD, if possible.
      (3)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of suspended solids, and pounds
of BOD to be treated.
      (4)   Establish the proportion of estimated costs to non-industrial and
industrial users by volume, suspended solids, and BOD.
      (5)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength.
      (6)   Compute surcharge costs per 1,000 gallons per mg/l in excess of
normal sewage strength for BOD and suspended solids.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.024 COMPUTATION OF DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   The debt service charge shall be computed by dividing the annual debt
service of all outstanding loans, bonds, and the like, including those passed
through to the village by the Lake County Public Water District by the total
number of users. Through further divisions, the monthly and/or quarterly debt
service charges is computed on a per-user basis.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.025 COMPUTATION OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE.
   The Village Board shall be advised by the Superintendent and the Village
Engineer on the capital needs of the combined water and sewage system and from
time to time shall establish by ordinance appropriate rates to charge to meet
the reasonably anticipated expenses of major system refurbishment,
rehabilitation, expansion and modernization. The capital improvement charge
shall be made on a per-user basis.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.026 COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGE AND SERVICE CHARGE FOR WASTEWATER.
   As described below, this surcharge applies only to sewage, and only to
specifically designated users of the system.
   (A)   Surcharge. A surcharge for wastewater will be levied to all users
whose waters exceed the normal concentrations for BOD and suspended solids as
determined by the North Shore Sanitary District. The surcharge will be based on
water usage, as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters, for all wastes
which exceed the normal mg/l concentrations for BOD and suspended solids, which
are 200 mg/l of BOD and 240 mg/l suspended solids.
   (B)   Service charge. The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the
following formula:
         CW = CD + CM + (Vu-X)CU + CS
         Where CW = Amount of wastewater service charge per billing period.
         CD = Debt service charge (§
50.026).
         CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance, and replacement (§
50.027).
         Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period.
         X = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (§
50.027).
         CU = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance, and replacement (§
50.027).
         CS = Amount of surcharge (§
50.029).
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.027 PERIODIC REVIEW OF SERVICE CHARGE RATES.
   The adequacy of the various charges for the combined system shall be
reviewed annually by certified public accountants for the village in their
annual audit report. The service charge for the combined system shall be
revised periodically to reflect a change in debt service or a change in
operation and maintenance costs, including replacement costs. Following the
receipt of the annual audit, it is incumbent upon the Village Board to review
the recommendations of the auditors and adjust the Chart of Applicable Rates
set forth in §
50.035 of this code.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.028 MEASUREMENT OF WATER CONSUMPTION AS BASIS FOR RATES.
   (A)   Measurement of flow. The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption.
   (B)   Waterworks meters. From and after January 1, 2025, all premises using
water from the municipal water supply must be equipped with an adequate water
meter provided by the village to the owner of the property. All new
construction, remodeling or alterations must have a water meter and backflow
prevention device installed (in accordance with § 150.076(A)(3)) prior to the
insulation inspection.
      (1)   The Village Board, with the recommendation of the Superintendent of
Public Works and the Village Engineer, shall in all cases determine the kind
and pattern of water meters, fittings, and valves to be installed and no other
kind shall be installed at any time.
      (2)   Water meters shall be located at such places and in such manner
where they are readily accessible for reading, testing, and repairs, within the
premises to be served. All such installations shall be made in accordance with
the specifications to be prescribed by the Superintendent or his or her
designee and such meter locations must be so situated as to prevent freezing.
      (3)   The Superintendent or his or her contractor shall install all water
meters installed on or after January 1, 2025, and shall connect said meters to
electronic monitoring system(s) used by the village for remote monitoring and
readings.
      (4)   Installation of water meters and electronic reporting systems must
be installed prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      (5)   In no case shall a water service line be connected to the
building’s plumbing system until such time as the meter has been installed,
prior to which the service line shall have been flushed of any foreign
materials that could cause damage to the meter.
      (6)   The owners of the premises serviced by water and/or sewer shall be
solely responsible for all repairs or replacement of meters or parts therein,
whether due to malicious or willful damage, freezing, hot water backing, or due
to any other reason whatsoever other than periodically programmed replacement
by the village, and the owners must bear all costs of repairing or replacing
the meters on a time and material basis, when the same become damaged; as
determined by the Superintendent of Public Works. Except as described in this
division (B), all work performed in installing the meters shall be at the sole
expense of the village and all tap and connection fees, deposits and costs must
be paid in full prior to authorizing the turning on of water service at the
Buffalo Box serving the building.
   (C)   In the event a property owner requests a test of the water meter in
any building, the Superintendent of Public Works shall provide the test upon
payment of a $100 deposit. In the event the test proves that the meter is
accurate, the deposit shall be used to compensate the village for the costs
incurred in providing this service. In the event the test shows that the meter
is defective, the deposit shall be returned to the owner without deduction. Any
defective meter will be replaced at the village’s expense, pursuant to division
(B)(6) above.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.029 MUNICIPAL USAGE.
   In lieu of any rates that may be otherwise applicable, the village shall be
charged the sum of $1,500 per quarter for water service supplied to the
municipality, however all use of water by the village shall be metered and
included in all reports to the State of Illinois and federal authorities.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.030 AUTOMATIC ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Since the village purchases its water from the Lake County Public
Water District, and since that District adjusts the price it charges to the
village from time to time, the base water rate set forth in the the Chart of
Applicable Rates set forth in § 50.035 of this code shall be adjusted
administratively each time that District adjusts the price it charges to the
village. All such adjustments shall be proportional to the increase or decrease
announced by that District. The Finance Director shall provide timely notices
to the Village Board of all such adjustments and the Village Clerk shall
maintain a list of current rates that are readily available during regular
business hours to citizens.
   (B)   On January 1, 2026 and on each ensuing January 1 through January 1,
2030, the amounts desaribed in the Chart of Applicable Rates set forth in §
50.035 of this code shall increase by 3% (compounding).
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.031 SEWER SERVICE RATES FOR PROPERTIES WITHOUT WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   All non-metered residential single-family or each rental unit user of
the wastewater facilities, including buildings connected directly to the sewer
pipes of the North Shore Sanitary District, shall pay the minimum flat rate
charge set forth in the Chart of Applicable Rates in §
50.035 of this code. The flat rate charge will allow unmetered usage up to a
maximum of 5,000 gallons per quarter.
   (B)   In the event use of the wastewater facilities is determined by the
village to be in excess of 5,000 gallons per quarter, the village may require
such flat rate user to install metering devices on the water supply or sewer
main to measure the amount of service supplied.
   (C)   A deposit of $100 shall be paid by any person or property owner
seeking a permit to connect a building to the municipal sewer lines (but not to
the water service lines), including any person seeking to re-establish sewer
service where he or she has failed to pay his or her sewer bill and had service
cut off. At the time that the owner gives notice to the Village Clerk that the
building is being sold, vacated or demolished, any remaining unpaid balance
then due for sewer service will be deducted and the remainder turned over to
the property owner or tenant who posted the deposit. If the deposit is
insufficient to cover the remaining unpaid balance then due, the deposit shall
be applied to the balance, but the owner or occupant of the property shall
remain liable for the remaining unpaid balance due and shall be subject to
collection procedures set forth elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.032 SURCHARGE RATES.
   (A)   The rates of surcharges for BOD and suspended solids shall be
determined by the North Shore Sanitary District.
   (B)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by the North Shore Sanitary District and shall be binding as a
basis for surcharges.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.033 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for
individual user charges shall be made available to a user within 30 days of
receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or
in the computations thereof shall be received, reviewed and corrected as may be
appropriate by the Village Administrator within 60 days after notification of a
signed, written appeal outlining any alleged discrepancies.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.034 SENIOR CITIZENS’ WATER SERVICE DISCOUNT.
   (A)   A discount, as provided in this chapter, shall be granted to all
senior citizens who meet the necessary qualifications as described herein.
   (B)   Each person applying for the discount shall file in person, except as
provided in this chapter, with the Village Clerk, on a form to be furnished by
the Village Clerk, an application certifying that he or she is age 65, or older
and permanently residing in the single-family residence within the village for
which he or she is applying for the discount.
   (C)   The discount shall consist of a 10% reduction of the water only
portion of the actual billing. There will be no minimum, nor maximum water
usage requirement. No discount shall be provided for any sewer services.
   (D)   The water service billing for the residence in question shall be
registered in the name of the applicant or his or her spouse.
   (E)   The applicant shall provide proof of age by a current drivers license,
state identification card, or birth certificate. If the applicant is unable to
personally appear in the Village Clerk’s office due to a physical handicap or
illness, the applicant shall be granted the discount if their medical doctor
furnishes a written statement of the applicant’s inability to appear in person,
and the applicant’s age.
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
§ 50.035 CHART OF APPLICABLE RATES
 
Description of Charges  Quarterly Rates
Water user base charge  $9.56 /1,000 gallons
Sewer user base charge  $22.00 (up to 5,000 gallons)
Sewer usage charge      $1.50 /1,000 gallons (over 5,000 gallons)
Debt service charge     $27.00
Capital improvement fee $8.00
Sewer only              $45.00
 
(Ord. 2024-20, passed 11-19-24)
PUBLIC SEWER AND WATER SUPPLY USE
§ 50.040 UNSANITARY DEPOSITS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
('79 Code, § 1104) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.041 TREATMENT OF DISCHARGE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
('79 Code, § 1104) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042 CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITY UNLAWFUL.
   Except as hereinafter provided in §§
50.050 through
50.056, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
('79 Code, § 1104) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.043 PURCHASE OF SERVICE FROM OTHER THAN VILLAGE PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, association, corporation, or partnership having its
residence or place of business within the territorial limits of the village
shall be permitted to buy water from any other municipal corporation or other
public utility for such residence or place of business located in the village
whenever the waterworks of said village is adjacent to its property.
('79 Code, § 1104) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.044 CONNECTION TO VILLAGE SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any house, business establishment or other building used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation or business situated within the
village and abutting or adjoining on any street, alley, or right-of-way in
which there is now located or may in the future be located any storm or
sanitary sewer or water supply shall at their own expense be required to
connect to the appropriate sewer and/or water system, in accordance with
appropriate village ordinances.
   (B)   Connection to the appropriate village facilities, as required, shall
be made within 180 days after the date of official notice to do so. There will
be no extension of the time granted to extend the connection period.
   (C)   Every new structure must connect to the appropriate sewer and/or water
system of the village if within 400 feet of such system (excluding the crossing
of any street, alley, right-of-way, or easement) as stated in 1975-O-2,
"Housing Code of Winthrop Harbor."
   (D)   Whenever it shall be required to extend any storm or sanitary sewer or
water main, the course (direction) of said extension shall be determined by the
Superintendent of Public Works and submitted to the Board of Trustees for final
acceptance and approval thereby providing the means towards an efficient,
comprehensive system.
('79 Code, § 1104) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1989-O-6, passed 3-
7-89; Am. Ord. 1989-O-34, passed 8-15-89; Am. Ord. 1996-O-22, passed 12-3-96)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.045 UNLAWFUL TO BYPASS, DISCONNECT OR DISABLE METER.
   It shall be unlawful to bypass, disconnect or to disable any water, sewer or
combined meter connected to the village water or sewer supply, and it shall
further be unlawful to suffer or permit any such bypassed, disconnected or
disabled water, sewer or combined meter to be connected to the village water or
sewer system or to be present in any residence or other building in the
village.
(Ord. 2002-O-15, passed 4-2-02) Penalty, see §
50.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 50.050 UNAVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
50.044, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
('79 Code, § 1105) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.051 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the County Health
Department. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished
by the County Health Department, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
County Health Department and the Superintendent, a copy of which must be
submitted to the village before commencement of construction. A permit and
inspection fee may be set by the County Health Department and shall be paid to
the County Health Department as set forth in the regulations of such
Department.
('79 Code, § 1105) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.052 INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the County Health
Department. The County Health Department shall be allowed to inspect the work
at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit
shall notify the County Health Department when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of written notice by the County
Health Department.
('79 Code, § 1105) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.053 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State Environmental
Protection Agency as well as the County Health Department and village
ordinances.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot in an
R-1 Zone is less than 40,000 square feet and a lot in an R-2 Zone is less than
22,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
('79 Code, § 1105) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.054 PUBLIC SEWERS BECOMING AVAILABLE.
   (A)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
50.044, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material as
provided in division (B).
   (B)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
('79 Code, § 1105) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
2002 S-11
§ 50.055 SANITARY OPERATION; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the village.
Whenever a private sewage disposal facility or drain thereto is obstructed, or
if found to be broken or defective so that sewerage or drainage escapes into
surrounding soil or into adjacent premises, repair or replacement may be
ordered by the village.
   (B)   Such repairs shall be at the expense of the owner or person in control
of such property. No such work for repair shall commence until such time as a
permit has been obtained from the County Health Department.
('79 Code, § 1105) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.056 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Health
Department or the village.
('79 Code, § 1105) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
BUILDING SEWERS AND WATER SERVICE
§ 50.065 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter, or disturb any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or public
water system or any appurtenances thereof, without first obtaining a written
permit from the Village Clerk. No such permit shall be issued except for
property which has been assessed for a share of the cost of the adjacent
sanitary sewer, storm sewer, and/or public water system through a connection
charge as provided in §§
50.080 through
50.083, and property in a subdivision where the subdivider has installed a
sanitary sewer, storm sewer, and/or public water supply to serve said property
under the requirements of the Subdivision Code, unless a special connection fee
is paid in addition to all other fees and charges required by ordinance. Said
assessment shall be paid in full prior to the issuance of said permits.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow the construction of any new treatment
works, sewer wastewater source, or water supply system or cause or allow the
modification of any existing treatment works, or sewer or water mains, without
the appropriate permits issued by the State Environmental Protection Agency and
the North Shore Sanitary District, or any other appropriate agency, except
where such permits are not required.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1984-O-25, passed -
-84; Am. Ord. 1988-O-8, passed 2-16-88) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.066 APPLICATION.
   Such application for sewer connection and/or house connections shall impose
liability for a periodic sewer and/or water basic user charge to be billed the
owner not later than 90 days after service is available to the owner's
premises, whether or not said owner makes physical connection to said combined
system. The permit and inspection fees for such connections shall be as
provided by ordinance of the village.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.067 AVAILABILITY FOR TAP-ON PURPOSES.
   Municipal water mains and sewers will be available for tap-on purposes only
in those instances where said water or sewer mains are lying in a right-of-way
having a width of not less than 60 feet except in instances where the applicant
is seeking to tap-on for the benefit of property where either the applicant or
a predecessor in title has already dedicated not less than 30 feet along the
right-of-way in which the sewer or water main lies or is to be constructed.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.068 CASH DEPOSIT AND BOND; INSURANCE.
   (A) Cash deposit and bond requirements.
      (1)   No permit for a sewer connection, water service, or stub-in shall
be issued unless and until the excavator or contractor therefor has deposited
with the Village Clerk a cash deposit in the sum of $150 if no pavement is
involved, and $500 if the excavation is in a paved area or macadam area to
insure the proper restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if any.
A cash bond in the amount of 10% of the engineer's estimated cost of the
project or 10% of the certified bid amount shall be deposited with the village
prior to construction of any sewer or water extension. Such deposit shall be
held by the village until such time as the project is accepted by the
Superintendent of Public Works and final restoration of the construction area
is completed. Restoration must be completed within 15 working days of
completion of the project or the fees will be forfeited.
      (2)   From the deposit shall be deducted the expense to the village of
re-laying the surface of the ground or pavement and of making the refill if
this is done by the village or at its expense. The balance shall be returned to
the excavator or contractor without interest after the tunnel or excavation is
completely refilled and the surface or pavement is restored.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued unless and until the excavator or
contractor therefor has filed with the Village Clerk a bond in the sum of
$15,000, conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss, liability, or
damage that may result or accrue from or because of the making, existence, or
manner of guarding or constructing any such tunnel or excavation, and shall
indemnify the village against any damage to the village's sewerage and
waterworks system. Such bond shall have as surety a corporation licensed to do
business in this state as a surety company. Said bond shall be a yearly bond,
shall be renewed on or before the anniversary date, and shall be on a form
approved by the village.
   (B)   Insurance. No permit for a sewer connection, water service, or sewer
extension shall be issued by the President and Board of Trustees of the village
unless the person applying therefor or the contractor shall have first procured
public liability insurance in an amount of not less than $300,000 for injuries,
including accidental death, to any one person and subject to the same limit to
each person in an amount not less than $500,000 on account of one accident; and
property damage insurance in an amount not less than $100,000. The persons to
be indemnified and saved harmless in said insurance policy shall be the
village, and the applicant for sewer connection, water service, or sewer/water
extension. A certificate of said insurance shall be filed with the Village
Clerk.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1987-O-11, passed
3-3-87; Am. Ord. 1988-O-31, passed 9-20-88)
§ 50.069 FRAUDULENT REPRESENTATIONS IN PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   If after the water supply shall have been turned on to any building,
structure, or premises, it shall be found by any officer or employee of the
village that fraudulent representations have been made by the applicant for
such water supply or that water is being used in or upon such building,
structure, or premises for purposes not set forth in the application made for
such water supply or that there is willful and unreasonable use or waste of
water, the Superintendent or his representative shall have the authority and it
shall be his duty to cut off and stop the supply of water to such building,
structure, or premises. However, service shall not be so discontinued unless
the notice and hearing requirements established under ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 8-
101 are first satisfied (see also I. Erlichman Co., Inc. v. Illinois Commerce
Commission, 92 Ill. App. 3d 1091, 416 N.E.2d 721, 48 Ill. Dec. 448 (3d Dist.
1981)). The water shall not be turned on to such building, structure, or
premises until the person responsible for such fraudulent representation or for
such use of water or willful or unreasonable waste thereof, shall pay the
village such additional sum of money for such water supply or on account of
such unreasonable waste of water as the Board of Trustees shall find properly
to be due the village.
   (B)   Every person, firm, association, corporation, partnership, or user
connected to the village sewer/water system shall, at his or her own cost and
expense, have installed and kept in good serviceable repair a service line
which incorporates all piping, valves, valve boxes, meters, connections, and
fittings leading from the sewer/water main to the user's building, structure,
or premises, as connected to the sewer/water main through said service line.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1984-O-9, passed 3-
20-84) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.070 SUFFICIENT DOWNSTREAM SEWERAGE FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations, and wastewater treatment
facilities have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.071 CLASSES OF BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be five classes of building sewer permits: Single-family
home; duplex-family home; apartments, condominiums, or multiple- family
dwellings; commercial and service buildings; and industrial buildings for
establishments producing industrial wastes. In any of these classes, the owner
or the owner's agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
village. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the approving authority.
   (B)   The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type
of activity.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.072 SERVICE CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 1988, all new single-family homes will be
required to install a one-inch service connection for water.
   (B)   However, any lot already stubbed in with a 3/4-inch service connection
shall be permitted to use said service connection for water.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1987-O-38, passed
11-17-87) Penalty, see §
50.999
PERMIT AND CONNECTION FEES
§ 50.080 PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The permit fee for making connection to any public sanitary sewer
mains of the system within the corporate limits for property adjacent to the
public sewer mains, to be hereinafter designated as a sanitary sewage tap-on
fee, shall be as follows:
 
(1)   Single-family home                                                       $1,500
(2)   Duplex-family home                                                       $1,750
(3)   Apartments, condominiums, or multiple- family dwellings (plus $100 for ea$1,500
unit)
(4)   Commercial and service buildings (plus cost to be determined by the Villa$1,500
Board at the time of application)
(5)   Industrial buildings (plus cost to be determined by the Village Board at $1,500
the time of application)
 
   (B)   The fees to be charged for a permit to tap or otherwise make a
connection with any sewer main shall be determined in such manner and in such
amounts as shall be prescribed by ordinance adopted by the President and Board
from time to time.
   (C)   Also with respect to property adjacent to public sanitary sewer mains
and in addition to the cost of the sanitary sewer tap-on fees for each
connection, there shall be an additional connection charge (hereinafter
sometimes designated as sanitary sewer property charge) to users connecting to
such public sanitary sewer mains constructed or acquired by the village of
$1,600 plus $32 for each front foot that the lot frontage exceeds 50 feet, and
such sanitary sewer property charge shall be designated for the construction,
expansion, and extension of the works of the system.
      (1)   The funds thus collected shall be used by the village for its
general corporate purposes with primary application thereof being made by the
necessary expansion of the works of the system to meet the requirements of new
users thereof.
      (2)   The front footage is determined by the width of the side of the
lot, as recorded, which the house faces. In no event is this section to be
construed as obligating the village to construct public sewer mains in areas
not now served where the sanitary sewer property charge hereinabove will not
adequately reimburse the village of the cost of such construction.
   (D)   The sanitary sewer property charge for making connection to any
sanitary sewer mains utilizing the public sanitary sewer system within the
corporate limits, for property which is not immediately adjacent to the public
sanitary sewer mains, or when the front foot determination is uncertain, shall
be $2,000 plus the showing of proof of the necessary easements.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1983-O-12, passed
6-21-83; Am. Ord. 1984-O-22, passed 10-2-84; Am. Ord. 1988-O-8, passed 2-16-88;
Am. Ord. 1988-O-31, passed 9-20-88; Am. Ord. 1996-O-26, passed 12-17-96; Am.
Ord. 2004-O-13, passed 8-3-04)
§ 50.081 PUBLIC WATER CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The permit fee for making connection to water mains of the system
within the corporate limits, to be hereinafter designated as a water tap-on
fee, shall be as follows:
(1)   Single-family home                                                       $1,500
(2)   Duplex-family home with independent connections, per connection          $1,500
(3)   Apartments, condominiums, or multiple- family dwellings with 1 inch servi$1,500
  connection (plus $200 per unit)
(4)   Apartments, condominiums, or multiple- family dwellings with 1½ inch or $2,000
larger service connection (plus $200 per unit)
(5)   Commercial, industrial and service buildings with ¾-inch service        $1,500
connections
(6)   Commercial, industrial and service buildings with 1 to 1½ inch service  $1,500
connections (plus $150 per ¼ inch over 1 inch)
(7)   Commercial, industrial and service buildings with 2 inch and larger service
connections (to be determined by the Village Board at the time of application)
(8)   In addition to the tap-on fees so established, any meter required for
service larger than 1 inch shall be charged for on a current delivered cost-plus-
10% basis.
 
   (B)   Also with respect to property adjacent to water mains and in addition
to the cost of the water tap- on fee for each connection, there shall be an
additional connection charge (hereinafter sometimes designated as a water
property charge) to users connecting to such water mains constructed or
acquired by the village of $1,600 for each lot frontage of 50 feet or less. For
lot frontages in excess of 50 feet, the water property charge shall be $1,600
plus $32 for each front foot that the frontage exceeds 50 feet, and such water
property charge shall be designated for the construction, expansion, and
extension of the works of the system.
      (1)   The funds thus collected shall be used by the village for its
general corporate purposes with primary application thereof being made by the
necessary expansion of the works of the system to meet the requirements of new
users thereof.
      (2)   The front footage is determined by the width of that side of the
lot which the house faces.
   (C)   In no event is this section to be construed as obligating the village
to construct water mains in areas not now served where the cost of such
construction is not feasible or where the water property charge hereinabove
will not adequately reimburse the village for the cost of such construction.
   (D)   The permit fee for making connection to public water mains of the
system within the corporate limits for property which is not adjacent to water
mains, to be hereinafter designated as a water tap-on fee, shall be $2,000 and
showing of proof of the necessary easements.
   (E)   The sums herein provided to be paid as a water property charge shall
be in addition to and exclusive of all other charges required and fixed by
ordinance for connection with village mains.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1983-O-12 passed 6-
21-83; Am. Ord. 1987-O-23, passed 6-2-87; Am. Ord. 1988-O-31, passed 9-20-88;
Am. Ord. 1989-O-32, passed 9-6-89; Am. Ord. 1990-O-22, passed 8-7-90; Am. Ord.
1996-O-26, passed 12-17-96; Am. Ord. 2004-O-13, passed 8-3-04)
§ 50.082 STUB-IN FEES.
   In those instances where the village has already contracted for or has
caused to be completed the sewer and/or water stub-ins from the public sanitary
sewer main or the public water system to a point from which the abutting
property is to be serviced (ordinarily within seven feet of the abutting proper
line), said applicant shall be required to reimburse the village for its costs
in having said stub-in made available to the applicant. The same shall be paid
at the time of and in addition to the sanitary sewer tap- on fee, sanitary
sewer property charge, water tap-on fee, and water property charge which are
provided for herein.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.083 ADDITIONAL CHARGES; PAYMENT.
   (A)   The sums herein provided to be paid as sanitary sewer property
charges, sanitary sewage tap-on fees, water property charges, water tap-on
fees, and stub-in fees shall be in addition to and exclusive of all other
charges required for connection with public sewer/water mains and fixed by
ordinance.
   (B)   All fees and charges described above shall be paid in full prior to
the issuance of any permits and prior to making connection to any sewer/water
mains. All fees and charges shall be paid into the Village of Winthrop Harbor
Sewerage and Waterworks Fund.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1984-O-22, passed
10-2-84)
§ 50.084 CORNER LOT OWNERS.
   (A)   The property owner who has previously paid in full the front footage
charge for water or sewer improvements, shall be allowed a footage credit up
to, but not to exceed 135 feet for water or sewer improvements when constructed
on the second side of his property.
      (1)   This credit shall be calculated on a footage basis rather than a
monetary value as water or sewer frontage rates change from time to time.
Further, frontage credit allowed on the second side of property shall not
exceed the number of feet paid for under the first improvement.
      (2)   In the event of subsequent subdivision, the credit shall only apply
to the new corner lot. Undeveloped non-corner lots created by such subdivision
shall be charged, in full, the front footage charge for sewer and water
improvements.
      (3)   Credit will only be given for exactly the same improvement.
      (4)   This section shall in no way be construed to eliminate all property
charges on the second side of a corner lot where improvements are made.
      (5)   In no event is this section to be construed as obligating the
village to construct new improvements in areas not now served.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall keep full and complete records with regard to
such properties, and the credit allowed to such.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.085 COSTS AND EXPENSES TO BE BORNE BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection,
repair, and/or service of the building sewer or water service line, shall be
borne by the owner.
   (B)   All service calls, including water shut-offs, turn-ons, and service
repairs, shall be subject to a time and materials charge to the property owner
if it is determined that the problem lies within the property owner's area of
responsibility.
   (C)   The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation, service, or repair of
the premises served.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1984-O-9, passed 3-
20-84)
§ 50.086 COST RECAPTURE.
   (A)   A property owner, hereinafter sometimes referred to as "licensee",
with the approval of the village, shall be entitled to construct water mains
and sanitary sewer extensions benefiting not only the property owner making
application but other property owners benefited by said construction, and said
property owner shall be entitled to recapture that portion expended for the
benefit of other property owners provided an agreement is executed between the
village and the property owner which includes provisions covering the following
items:
      (1)   Date of commencement and date of completion.
      (2)   Legal descriptions of the properties benefited specifying which
have and have not contributed to the costs.
      (3)   Exact locations of mains and/or extensions.
      (4)   The exact amount to be reimbursed under recapture. This amount is
to be the exact, documented, direct expense of said construction less the
prorated amount of benefit to the licensees based on actual front footages of
all properties benefited as recorded.
      (5)   Construction shall be in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the Village Engineer and subject to his or her inspection.
      (6)   The completed construction shall be deeded to the village upon
completion of the work.
      (7)   Licensee shall be responsible for all repairs and maintenance for
one year following the completion of the extension and bear the costs of the
same during said period.
      (8)   Licensee shall file with the Village Clerk suitable evidence that
the village is protected by surety bond or by suitable liability insurance
against all claims for personal injuries and property damage.
      (9)   Provisions for disposition of amounts recaptured.
   (B)   All funds collected by the village for the benefited properties shall
be promptly paid to the licensees up to the amount to be reimbursed. Additional
funds collected shall accrue to the Sewer and Water (or General) Fund.
   (C)   Subject to the limitations set forth in division (B) above and the
requirements of division (D) below, all funds collected by the village for the
benefitted properties during the period following the commencement of the
physical installation of the sewer and/or water lines but prior to the passage
of the final recapture ordinance shall be paid over to the developer promptly
upon passage of the recapture section.
   (D)   It shall be the burden of the developer to present a draft recapture
agreement in substantial conformity with the Model Recapture Agreement set
forth in the appendix to Chapter 52 to the Village Board for approval. The
developer must present such a draft agreement and all necessary supporting
documents not sooner than the time at which the public improvements are
accepted by the village, and not later than one year thereafter. Should the
developer fail to present such a draft recapture agreement within that time
period, the developer shall forfeit his or her right to payment for any funds
that would otherwise come due to him or her under division (C) above.
('79 Code, § 1106) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1984-O-27, passed
10-16-84; Am. Ord. 2002-O-49, passed 12-3-02)
Cross-reference:
   Model Recapture Agreement, see §
52.094 and § 2 of Appendix to Chapter
52
§ 50.087 WATER MAIN TESTING.
   (A)   There shall be an inspection fee of $50 per test for the purpose of
pressure testing of a water main. An allowance of 1½ hours shall be made for
the test. Should the test fail during the time allotment and an extension of
time be required, the additional charge per hour rate shall be $30. Should the
main require a callback to test, this shall be considered as another test. In
lieu of this division, sampling may be performed by an independent certified
firm.
   (B)   There shall be a $60 per sample test fee for each sample, as required,
for the sampling and lab analysis. In lieu of this division, sampling may be
performed by an independent certified firm.
(Ord. 1990-O-13, passed 5-19-90)
CONNECTION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.095 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer and/or water service into the
public mains shall conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing
Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society of
Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9,
and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by
the Superintendent before installation.
   (B)   All work performed shall be in accordance with accepted engineering
practices.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.096 TAPPING MAINS.
   (A)   Tapping sewer mains for which a permit has been issued shall be made
at such points and in such manner as directed by the Superintendent.
   (B)   Whenever any permit for a connection with the water mains of the
village is issued hereunder only the Superintendent or his representative shall
tap the main of said system where such connection is to be made and shall
insert the corporation stop.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.097 MULTIPLE BUILDINGS ON ONE LOT.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. However, where one building stands at the rear of another on a lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the building sewer from the
front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as
one building sewer, classified in §
50.080 (A) (3), and shall conform to §
50.025 (C) through (E).
   (B)   A separate and independent water service shall be provided for every
building. However, where one building stands at the rear of another on a lot
and no private water service is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the water service
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one water service and classified in §
50.081 (A) (4). Further, each building shall be provided with its own
corporation stop and shall conform to §
50.025 (B).
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the foregoing provisions of this
subchapter shall have his water shut off and stopped. However, service shall
not be so discontinued unless the notice and hearing requirements established
under ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 8-101 are first satisfied (see also I. Erlichman
Co., Inc. v. Illinois Commerce Commission, 92 Ill. App. 3d 1091, 416 N.E.2d
721, 48 Ill. Dec. 448 (3d Dist. 1981)) The water shall not again be turned on
to such building, structure, or premises from which it was cut off until there
is paid to said village such sum of money as the Board of Trustees shall deem
properly due the village.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.098 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the approving authority, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.099 DEFECTIVE SEWERS.
   Whenever a sanitary building sewer or drain thereto is obstructed, or is
found to be broken or defective so that sewerage or drainage escapes into
surrounding soil or into adjacent premises, repair or replacement may be
ordered by the Superintendent. Such repairs shall be at the expense of the
owner or person in control of such property. Such break shall be properly
repaired by replacing the broken part with a corresponding new part. No
patching of such break will be accepted.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.100 DISPOSAL INTO SEWERS REGULATED.
   All disposal by any person into the public sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards. ('79 Code, §
1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.101 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall be notified when the building sewer and/or
water service is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer or
water supply system or when repair work is finished and ready for inspection,
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon daily Monday through Friday, 24
hours in advance.
   (B)   No connection to the combined system or repair for which a permit has
been issued shall be backfilled or covered in any manner until the same has
been inspected by the Superintendent or his representative.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.102 MANHOLES.
   Manholes shall be constructed at all places in a sewer line where there is
any change in direction or grade of such line. In addition, manholes shall be
constructed on straight runs of any sewer at intervals of not exceeding 300
feet, unless spacing other than 300 feet is specifically approved by the Board
of Trustees in writing.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.103 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer and/or water service shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard and shall conform to the requirements of Chapter
99, Streets and Sidewalks, or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
village.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.104 ELEVATION OF CONNECTION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in
accordance with §§
50.080 through
50.083, and discharged to the building sewer.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.105 BUILDING SEWER CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavation, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and
regulations of the village. In the absence of code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   (B)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of
any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient
to afford protection from the frost. The building sewer shall be laid at
uniform grade.
   (C)   Any sewer connected shall be laid as nearly as possible in a straight
line. All changes in direction shall be made with properly curved pipe or at
manholes.
   (D)   The slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of
the Superintendent but not less than one-eighth inch per foot nor more than
one-half inch per foot.
   (E)   The building sewer shall be four-inch cast iron soil pipe, approved
PVC, or other suitable material approved by the Superintendent. Any part of the
building sewer that is located within two feet of a water service pipe or
within 50 feet of a well shall be constructed with cast iron soil pipe with
leaded joints or watertight rubber ring joints. If installed in filled or
unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe, except
that nonmetallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed or
cradle as approved by the Superintendent.
   (F)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight, watertight, and
root-proof.
   (G)   All joints between such pipes and metals shall be made with approved
premoulded rubber, polyvinyl, or polyester joints.
   (H)   Material for joints shall not soften so as to destroy the
effectiveness of the joint when subjected to a temperature of 160°F., nor be
soluble in any of the wastes carried by the drainage system. Other jointing
materials and methods may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent.
   (I)   The interior of the sewer shall, as the work progresses, be cleaned of
dirt, joint compound, and superfluous materials of every description.
   (J)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the "Y" branch or "T" is such branch is available at a suitable
location. If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less and no properly
located "Y" branch or "T" is available, the owner shall at his expense install
a "Y" branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the
Superintendent. Where the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter
and no properly located "Y" branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into
the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream
direction at an angle of about 45 degrees. A 45-degree ell may be used to make
such connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner
surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of
connection shall be at the same or a higher elevation than the invert of the
public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the connection made secure
and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the
connection only when approved by the Superintendent.
   (K)   Unless otherwise directed, all sewer and water trenches and
excavations shall not be backfilled until inspected and approved by the
Superintendent or his representative as herein provided, and all work approved.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.106 WATER SERVICE CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of a water
service, and the methods to be used in excavation, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and
regulations of the village. In the absence of code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   (B)   No connection with any water main of said village shall be less than
one inch, with all material and labor to be furnished and paid for by the
applicant or owner.
   (C)   (1)   The connection from the main to the curb stop shall be placed at
least five feet below the level of the ground. The service pipe shall be laid
sufficiently waving so that it shall be at least one foot longer than if laid
in a straight line and shall be placed in such manner as to prevent rupture or
breakage from settling of the ground. All service pipes shall be of type K
copper tubing or other tubing specifically allowed by the Illinois Plumbing
Code, as set forth in 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890, Appendix A and shall
be not less than one-inch nominal diameter.
      (2)   Individual and separate "water services" shall be provided for each
unit of a duplex family dwelling.
   (D)   Each water service pipe shall be connected with the water main, shall
extend horizontally at right angles with the water main to a point seven feet
from the property line, and shall there be provided with a bronze curb stop of
not less than one-inch in diameter to be installed within a shut-off box of the
best quality of cast iron, or curb stop.
   (E)   The water main must be tapped at an angle of 45 degrees with the
vertical, and the corporation stop must be turned so that the "T" handle will
be on top.
   (F)   A full circle tapped sleeve (or coupling) of all stainless-steel
construction, of not less than eight- inch length shall be required for all
water (other than iron) main connections or "taps."
(‘79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1989 0-32, passed
9-6-89; Am. Ord. 2024-O-19, passed 11-19-24) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.107 WATER CROSS-CONNECTIONS NOT PERMITTED.
   Whenever a system of water supply piping, either inside or outside of any
building, receives its supply from any source other than the waterworks system
of the village, such system shall be kept entirely separate from, and no cross-
connections or connections of any kind shall be made with any pipe or system of
piping which receives its supply from the village waterworks system.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.108 TURNING ON WATER SEALS.
   (A)   There shall be a charge, hereinafter designated turn-on and/or turn-
off fee, whenever water service has been terminated or reinstated either upon
request of the owner or by reason of non-payment for service, of $50 each,
which shall be reviewed from time to time by the President and Board of
Trustees. In the event a curb stop is inaccessible, plugged, or damaged, refer
to §
50.085.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall be notified 24 hours in advance where the
turning-on and/or turning off of the water seal is not of an immediate or
urgent nature. Provision of turn-on and/or turn-off service shall be made
routinely available during the regular business hours of the Public Works
Department. Any request for such service at other times shall be considered by
the Superintendent of Public Works and provided at the reasonable convenience
of the Public Works Department and may be dependent on factors such as work
load and available staff. If expedited service is requested beyond what the
Superintendent so offers, the owner may pay a double fee and the Superintendent
shall provide the service as the owner requests, provided staff is available to
do so.
   (C)   No seal placed by the Sewerage and Waterworks Department for the
protection of any meter, valve, fitting, or other water connection shall be
defaced or broken except on written authority from the Superintendent.
   (D)   No person not duly authorized shall turn on or off any service cock,
or use water therefrom when so turned on. The person so using or wasting water
in such unlawful manner shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
50.999 and shall also be liable to pay therefor at the regular water rates.
   (E)   No person, other than members of the Fire Department shall use water
from any fire hydrant connected with the village waterworks system, except for
extinguishing fire or unless especially authorized by the Superintendent.
('79 Code, § 1107) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1986-O-30, passed
10-24-86; Am. Ord. 1995-O-01, passed 2-21-95; Am. Ord. 2015-O-4, passed 2-3-15)
Penalty, see §
50.999
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.115 DISCHARGES INTO SANITARY SEWER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.116 STORMWATER AND UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the approving authority. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the approving authority, to a
storm sewer or natural outlet.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.117 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Any solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size as to be
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with
the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1986-O-14, passed
7-1-86) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.118 INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY SYSTEM.
   No industrial user may discharge sewage into any public sewer until the
village has adopted an industrial cost recovery system which meets the
requirements of Section 204(b)(1) (B) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972 and applicable federal regulations; and has been
approved by the Agency in accordance with the conditions of any grant made to
the village by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or by the
state for the construction of any part of the sewer system or sewage treatment
works of the village.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.119 HARMFUL SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the North Shore Sanitary District that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment; have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream or otherwise endanger life, limb, or public property; or
constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the North Shore Sanitary District will give consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits
established by regulatory agencies.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F.
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/1 or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F. and 150°F.
(0° and 65°C.).
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the approving authority.
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong, acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the North Shore Sanitary District for such materials.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding the limits which may be
established by the North Shore Sanitary District as necessary after treatment
of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or
other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving
waters.
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the approving authority in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/1 as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the North Shore Sanitary District in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
    (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/1 at any time except as permitted
by the North Shore Sanitary District in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations.
    (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
    (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.120 NORTH SHORE SANITARY DISTRICT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
50.119, or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in
Chapter 1, EPA Rules and Regulations, subchapter D, Water Programs Part 128 -
Pretreatment Standards, Federal Register Volume 38, No. 215, Thursday, November
8, 1973 and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the North
Shore Sanitary District may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the North Shore Sanitary District may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   (B)   If the North Shore Sanitary District permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the North Shore
Sanitary District and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances, and laws.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.121 INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED WHEN NECESSARY.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the North Shore Sanitary District they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients. However, such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the North Shore Sanitary District, and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.122 MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his
expense.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.123 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the approving authority, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the approving
authority. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.124 ANALYSES OF WATERS AND WASTES.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than once per
year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.125 STANDARDS FOR MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   (A)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected.
   (B)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH's are determined from periodic
grab samples.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.126 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance with §§
50.020 through
50.030, by the industrial concern, provided such payments are in accordance
with federal and state guidelines for user charge systems and industrial cost
recovery systems.
('79 Code, § 1108) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
DRAINAGE OF SURFACE STORM WATER
   [Editor's Note: Lake County requires that for every square foot of new
construction, there must be an equal amount of drainage provided]
§ 50.130 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION DRAINS. Water accumulated in excavations; water taken from the
ground through a well point, underdrain, or other dewatering system; water
accumulated as a result of grading; and all other drainage associated with
construction operation.
   COOLING WATER. The unpolluted water discharge from any system for
conditioning, condensing, cooling, refrigerating, or other use, but shall be
free from odor and oil.
   GROUND WATER. Water in the soil which may drain through the ground into any
basement, ground water drain, excavated place, or natural depression, or into
sewers through the walls or joints thereof.
   STORM WATER. That portion of rain, snow, or sleet which runs off over the
surface of the ground, streets, structures, and roofs into sewers, storm
sewers, or natural waters.
   SURFACE WATER. Water flowing in natural or artificial channels or confined
in lakes, ponds, swamps, or similar depressions.
('79 Code, § 1109) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.131 DISCHARGES INTO SANITARY SEWER.
   No construction drains, storm water, surface waters, ground waters, or
cooling water from any source may be discharged, directly or indirectly, into
the sanitary sewers in the village.
('79 Code, § 1109) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.132 NEIGHBORING AND PUBLIC PROPERTIES.
   (A)   No person shall cause to have any part of his property graded, land-
filled, or elevated in such a manner that surface water collected upon said
property drains upon neighboring properties, whether occupied or not. Suitable
facilities must be provided either to drain such water into existing storm
sewers, with village permission, or in areas of the village where storm sewers
are not installed, into natural terrain drainage as may be recommended by the
Village Engineer.
   (B)   Water discharged from a basement or crawl space sump pump must be so
piped into a storm sewer, if available, or otherwise suitably channeled into a
discharge pit located on the immediate property so as not to constitute a
flooding danger to contiguous or surrounding properties, whether occupied or
not. This pit shall be installed at a minimum distance equal to 35 feet from
any R.O.W. line or drainage easement. The pit shall be a minimum of six feet
long x six feet deep excavation, backfilled with washed stone (1 to 2 inch
gradation), to within four inches of the proposed finished grade. Filter fabric
shall cover the stone with four inches of topsoil and seed. A four foot long
vertical (four inch or six inches in diameter) perforated pipe with open grate
shall be installed at the lowest finished grade elevation of the pit to provide
relief for excess flowage. In no event shall a direct (pipe) discharge to any
village drainage ditch or easement be allowed. Under no circumstances shall any
person install or maintain a sump pump discharge which empties onto any public
sidewalk. Artificial lakes, ponds, reservoirs, cisterns, swimming pools, or
other similar permanent or semipermanent collectors and retainers of water must
be piped and equipped with suitable drainage facilities as to present no
flooding danger to neighboring properties in the event of filling excessively
by rains or when purposely drained.
('79 Code, § 1109) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1995-O-5, passed 5-
2-95; Am. Ord. 2015-O-10, passed 4-7-15) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.133 CONNECTION OF DRAINS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer nor shall any of those discharges be
permitted within ten feet of the center line of trench excavation in which
there is to be, or is installed any building sewer connected or to be connected
to the public sanitary sewer main.
('79 Code, § 1109) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
IMPROVEMENTS
   [Editor's Note: Lake County requires that for every square foot of new
construction, there must be an equal amount of drainage provided]
§ 50.140 EVIDENCE OF COST AND OPERATION.
   (A)   Whenever any property owner shall, at his own cost, construct within
any street, alley, public way, or easement in the village pursuant to permit
and authority received from the village, a water or sewer line extension in
accordance with village standards and specifications inspected and approved by
the village, and when properties other than the property of the person
constructing such improvements shall intervene and abut upon that section of
the street, alley, public way, or easement within which such improvement lies,
then when the constructing owner shall furnish certification and satisfactory
evidence of the cost of such improvement, the President and Board of Trustees
shall investigate the reasonableness thereof in accordance with existing
prices.
   (B)   When the Board of Trustees is satisfied as to such reasonableness, the
Public Works Superintendent shall make appropriate record in his books and
atlas of the nature, extent, location, and cost of such improvement. Such water
or sewer extensions and appurtenances, upon approval of the Superintendent and
after one year of satisfactory operation, shall be conveyed to the village.
('79 Code, § 1110) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.141 WAIVER OF LIABILITY.
   An improving owner shall, prior to the inception of the work upon such
improvements, deposit with the Village Clerk a waiver of liability or of right
of reimbursement from the village of the cost of such improvement.
('79 Code, § 1110) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.142 ADDITIONAL SUMS CONTRIBUTED BY INTERVENING OWNERS.
   The sums herein provided to be contributed by the intervening owners shall
be in addition to and exclusive of permit fees required and fixed by ordinance
as inspection or permit fees for connection with or tap into the village water
lines.
('79 Code, § 1110) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
§ 50.143 EXTENSION TO CONTIGUOUS PROPERTY.
   When the owner or owners of property contiguous to the property of any owner
who shall have previously constructed any private improvements as described in
this subchapter shall be desirous of connecting to and extending such water or
sewer line within the street, alley, public way, or easement, then such
extension shall be permitted only if in the opinion of the Superintendent of
Public Works the existing facility shall be adequate for such purpose and
provided that such extension is along the total frontage of the property of the
applicant owner.
('79 Code, § 1110) (Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 50.150 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water system.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.151 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all premises served by the public potable water
supply system of the village.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.152 POLICY.
   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-siphonage
of contaminants through the customer's water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the Superintendent of Public Works or his authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water shall
give notice to the consumer to install such approve backflow prevention device
at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately
install such approved device or devices at his own expense; failure, refusal or
inability on the part of the consumer to install such device or devices
immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such device or devices have been installed. The consumer shall
retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair as required in
§
50.156 (D)(4) for a period of at least five years. The Superintendent of Public
Works may require the consumer to submit a cross- connection inspection report
to the village to assist in determining whether or not service line protection
will be required. All cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by a
Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector certified by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.153 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   AGENCY. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a course such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water course or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. Owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
      (1)   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water
system is physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
      (2)   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an
unknown substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a
safe potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe” as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the sewer or private sewage disposal
system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604
for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the water supply system which may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for fire fighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water from drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A public water supply is either a
“community water supply” or a ”non-community water supply.”
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either valve, the differential
relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the
pressure between the check valves at less than the supply pressure. The unit
must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the device,
and each device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.154 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up to two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
Public Works potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of
Public Works up to the point where the consumer's water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   (E)   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.155 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to insure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   (1)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
      (2)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.156 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
customer's premises.
   (B)   On request of the Superintendent of Public Works, or his authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the consumer's premises. The consumer's
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Public
Works for the verification of information submitted b the inspection consumer
to the public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection
results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premise to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross-connections to his water system through
which contamination or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 225, Act 320 § 3.1.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed, or approved cross connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage.
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
      (4)   Testing and records.
         (a)   Each device shall be testing at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with ILCS Ch. 415,
Act 5 § 4.
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.157 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency's regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 680. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer's water system serving premises, where in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Public Works, actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Public
Works and the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Public Works.
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water and/or the Cross-Connection Control Device
Inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey.
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency's regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
consumer's water system serving, but no necessarily limited to, the following
types of facilities unless the Superintendent of Public Works determines that
no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      (2)   Laboratories.
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations.
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants.
      (6)   Chemical plants.
      (7)   Metal plating industries.
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      (10) Car washes.
      (11) Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      (12) Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
      (13) Horticultural nurseries.
      (14) Commercial laundry/dry cleaning facilities.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.158 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
50.157 of this chapter shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as
follows:
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check value
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
50.157 of this chapter shall be approved fixed proper air gap separation or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow presenters shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other safety systems connected to the potable water supply shall
be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines and a
double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.159 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by this chapter
shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of
the University of Southern California, American Water Works Association,
American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.160 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by this chapter are installed to have inspection,
tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following schedule or
more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in manufacturer's
instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this chapter are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expenses of
the consumer without delay as required by this chapter.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.161 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.162 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Superintendent of Public Works, or if it is found that the backflow prevention
device has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection
exists on the premise, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these
regulations is not installed and maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Public
Works, and the required shut-off/turn on fees are paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Utilities/Operations.
   (D)   Neither the village, the Superintendent of Public Works or their
agents or assigns shall be liable to any customers of the (name of public water
supply) for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from
termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with the terms of this
chapter, whether or not the termination of the water supply was with or without
notice.
   (E)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter, shall
be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing
a reasonable time for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall,
within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violations.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter in addition
to the fine provided, shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss
or damage occasioned by the village by reason of such violations, whether the
same as caused before or after notice.
(Ord. 1994-O-17, passed 9-6-94)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association, corporation, or partnership violating
any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided, shall
be fined more than $500, and each day of violation shall be deemed a separate
violation of this chapter. ('79 Code, § 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
   (B)   Any person, corporation, partnership or entity who violates §
50.013 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense.
Each day such offense occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense
and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 1990-O-21, passed 8-8-90)
   (C)   Any person, firm, association, corporation or partnership violating §
50.087 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 and each day of
violation shall be deemed as a separate violation. (Ord. 1990-O-13, passed 5-1-
90)
   (D)   Any violation of §
50.045 shall subject the offender to a fine in the amount of $500 per
violation. Each day that a property owner or occupant shall allow, suffer or
permit any bypassed, disconnected or disabled water, sewer or combined meter to
be present in his or her resident or building shall be considered a separate
violation. Nothing herein shall limit the power or right of the Superintendent
of Public Works to shut off and seal water services as provided for in §
50.005. (Ord. 2002-O-15, passed 4-2-02)
   (E)   Any violation of §
50.006(F) shall subject the offender to a fine in the amount of $100 per
violation.
(Am. Ord. 2008-O-10, passed 5-6-08)
APPENDIX: APPLICATION FORM FOR BUILDING SEWER AND/OR WATER SERVICE
Section
   1. Application form
§ 1 APPLICATION FORM.
   The application form for building sewer and/or water service shall be as
follows:
(Ord. 1983-O-5, passed 4-19-83)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER AND WATER IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
51.01   Insurance required
   
51.02   Minimum limits of insurance
   
51.03   Reimbursements for road crossing costs
§ 51.01 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Any contractor constructing a public improvement such as a roadway, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, water main, excavation, or the like, or an improvement
which is located on village property, shall obtain, prior to commencing
construction, a certificate of insurance coverage with the Village Clerk. Such
certificate shall include the village and its agents as additional insureds.
('79 Code, § 1002(20))
§ 51.02 MINIMUM LIMITS OF INSURANCE.
   (A)   A contractor of a public works improvement as described in §
51.01 shall carry:
      (1)   Worker's Compensation insurance as required by state law;
      (2)   Property damage insurance of $50,000 per occurrence; and
      (3)   Personal injury insurance to life or limb of $300,00 per person and
$1,000,000 per occurrence.
   (B)   The contractor shall keep such insurance in full force and effect
during the construction of any public works improvement.
('79 Code, § 1002(20a))
§ 51.03REIMBURSEMENTS FOR ROAD CROSSING COSTS.
   (A)   Any person who is required to extend a proposed sanitary sewer, storm
sewer, or public water main across an existing road right-of-way shall be
entitled to reimbursement for said actual costs including Engineering, up to a
maximum rate not to exceed the following:
      (1)   $21.00 per front foot for storm sewer;
      (2)   $32.00 per front foot for sanitary sewer;
      (3)   $32.00 per front foot for water main.
   (B)   The reimbursement shall be made for the extension constructed within
the actual width of the platted road right-of-way to maximum of 66 feet, and
shall not be made for any work performed outside of the road right-of-way.
   (C)   The reimbursement shall be the sole compensation for the above
mentioned work, with no additional reimbursements being made for pavement
replacement, trench backfill, restoration, or other such related work until
project is completely accepted by the Superintendent of Public Works and the
Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1996-O-4, passed 5-21-96; Am. Ord. 1996-O-26, passed 12-17-96; Am. Ord.
1997-O-5, passed 2-18-97)
CHAPTER 52: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Public Works Department; Superintendent
   
52.003   Construction specifications
   
52.004   Construction permits required
   
52.005   Repairs
   
52.006   Defects
   
52.007   Obstruction
   
52.008   Private use
   
52.009   Encroachments
   
52.010   Gasoline pumps
   
52.011   Drains
   
52.012   Openings in streets
   
52.013   Dedications as a requirement for issuance of building permit
   
52.014   Fires in streets; burning leaves or rubbish
   
52.015   Injuries to pavement
   
52.016   Deposits on streets or sidewalks
   
52.017   Snow on streets and sidewalks
   
52.018   Merchandise for delivery
   
52.019   Poles and wires; tree trimming
   
52.020   Gas pipes
   
52.021   House numbering
   
52.022   Street lights
   
52.023   Games; playing in streets
   
52.024   Glass, nails in road
   
52.025   Scaffolding or ladders
   
52.026   Drainage ditches
Advertisements and Notices
   
52.030   Offensive handbills
   
52.031   Posting advertisements or notices
   
52.032   Placing handbills on vehicles
Driveways
   
52.040   Permit required
   
52.041   Construction specifications
   
52.042   Driveway approaches
   
52.043   Crossing sidewalks
   
52.044   Maintenance
   
52.045   Temporary and construction driveways
   52.046   Public construction and repairs
Signs and Awnings
   
52.050   Permit; annual fee
   
52.051   Temporary permit
   
52.052   Construction
   
52.053   Permit term
   
52.054   Height above public way
   
52.055   Inspection
Safety Regulations
   
52.060   Barricades
   
52.061   Defects in pavement
   
52.062   Disturbing barricades
   
52.063   Flagmen
   
52.064   Notice to police
Excavation and Construction Requirements
   
52.070   Permit required
   
52.071   Application
   
52.072   Tunneling
   
52.073   Backfilling
   
52.074   Compacting
   
52.075   Trenches under paved areas
   
52.076   Restoration
   
52.077   Submission and approval of sketch
   
52.078   Completion of work
   
52.079   Occupational Safety Hazard Act requirements
   
52.080   Inspections
   
52.081   Resurfacing
Cost Recapture
   
52.090   Prerequisite for building permit
   
52.091   Street property charge
   
52.092   Additional charges
   
52.093   Corner lots
   
52.094   Streets and storm sewer extensions
Encroachments On Right-Of-Way
   
52.100   Definitions
   
52.101   Encroachment on right-of-way
Street Construction For New Homes
   
52.110   Requirements
   
52.111   Authority
 
   
52.999   Penalty
 
   
Appendix:  Forms and exhibits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTED PUBLIC STREET. Any street duly accepted by the Board of Trustees of
the village for maintenance by the village.
   ALLEY. A strip of land along the side of or in the rear of properties,
intended to provide access to these properties.
   APPROVED STREET. Any street, whether public or private, meeting standards
and specifications of the village.
   COLLECTOR STREET or SECONDARY STREET. Those existing streets designated as
such on the Official Plan of the village.
   CROSS-WALKWAYS. A strip of land dedicated to public use, which is reserved
across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by
a vehicle turnaround.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is a dead end, then all the property abutting on one side between an
intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A public or private marginal access roadway or paved parking
lot containing the necessary driveways or traffic ways which are located along
the frontage of multiple-family, business, or industrial zoning districts with
regulations for purposes of establishing minimum distances between points of
access to the accepted street, and eliminating parking of motor vehicles on the
accepted public street.
   IMPROVEMENT (PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT). Any facility for which the village or
other municipal body may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance
and operation or which is constructed for general public use or benefit.
   INDUSTRIAL STREET. Any street included in any subdivision or plot of ground
to be used for industrial purposes as defined in the Zoning Code of the
village.
   INTERSECTION STREET. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection
of the lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict. Where a highway includes two
roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such
divided highway by an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate
intersection. In the event such intersecting highway also includes two roadways
30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such highways
shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   LOT. A parcel of land in a subdivision separated from other parcels or
portions by virtue of a plat of subdivision recorded with the appropriate
county office, and identifiable by reference to said plat of subdivision and
not dependent for such identification by metes and bounds.
   MAJOR STREET. See PRIMARY STREET.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A street which is parallel to and adjacent to
primary streets and highways, and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection to local traffic from fast, through-moving traffic on the
primary streets.
   MINOR STREET. A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
   OWNER. The individuals, firms, associations, syndicates, co-partnerships,
corporations, trusts, or any other legal entities having sufficient proprietary
interest of record in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under the statutes of the state or under the
ordinances of the village.
   PRIMARY STREET. A street of considerable continuity which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic artery between the various sections of the
village area as shown on the Major Thoroughfare Plan, made a part of the
Official Plan.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Any public board created by authority of the Illinois Revised
Statutes.
   PUBLIC STREET. All primary, secondary, and minor streets which are dedicated
for public use.
   ROADWAY or ROAD. The paved areas existing on the street right-of-way and not
the street right-of- way width.
   STREET. The width of the street right-of-way or easement whether public or
private, and shall not be considered as the width of paving or other
improvement on the street right-of-way.
('79 Code, § 901) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.002 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT; SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   All public streets, alleys, sidewalks, and other public ways in the
village shall be under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works.
The Superintendent shall have supervision over all work thereon, and the
cleaning thereof. It shall be the duty of the Superintendent and all employees
of said Department to enforce all the provisions of this chapter and to
observe, obey, and carry out the orders and directions of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   The Superintendent and employees of the Public Works Department shall
receive as compensation for their services, amounts to be fixed by the Board of
Trustees from time to time.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.003 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the Board of Trustees
and as required in the Rural Subdivision Code, the Subdivision Code, or the
"Design and Construction Policy for Improvement".
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, lay, disturb, or alter any public street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public way, or to repair the same, without first
having secured a permit therefor as set forth in §§
52.070 and
52.071.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 REPAIRS.
   All public streets, alleys, and sidewalk pavements shall be kept in good
repair. Such repair work, whether done by the village or by the abutting owner,
shall be under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.006 DEFECTS.
   It shall be the duty of every village officer or employee, becoming
cognizant of any defect in any street, alley, or sidewalk, or any obstruction
thereof, to report the same to the Superintendent of Public Works and Board of
Trustees as soon as possible.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.007 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to cause, create,
or maintain any obstruction, such as but not limited to signs, tree and bush
limbs, rocks, boulders, or fencing, of any street, road, right- of-way, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, or otherwise create any immediate or potential
hazard, whether visual or physical, to any pedestrian or vehicle upon said
street, road, right-of-way, alley, sidewalk or other public way.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1991-O-16, passed 8-
6-91) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.008 PRIVATE USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk, or other public place as space for the display or sale of goods or
merchandise; or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on any such
pavements.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.009 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect or
maintain any building or structure which encroaches upon any public street or
property.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
Cross-reference:
   Encroachments on rights-of-way, see §§
52.100 and
52.101
§ 52.010 GASOLINE PUMPS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in any
public street, alley, or sidewalk without having first obtained a permit
therefor from the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.011 DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.012 OPENINGS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway in any
public sidewalk, street, or alley without a permit from the Board of Trustees.
All such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded and shall conform to the
requirements of this chapter, subject to approval of the Superintendent of
Public Works.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.013 DEDICATIONS AS A REQUIREMENT FOR ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   The dedication of a strip or strips of land for street purposes shall
conform to the requirements of the requirements of the Subdivision Code, Rural
Subdivision Code, or other applicable rules and regulations of the village.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
residence or other building on any property until the owner or owners thereof
shall have dedicated for street purposes a strip or strips of land not less
than 30 feet in width of the boundary line or lines thereof as shall from time
to time be determined by the Board of Trustees and until such land has been
duly approved and accepted by the village.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.014 FIRES IN STREETS; BURNING LEAVES OR RUBBISH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation or
unincorporated business entity to build or set any fire of any accumulation of
grass, shrubbery cutting, leaves, tree limbs, and other materials accumulated
as the result of the care of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees, or garbage,
sludge from waste treatment, water supply treatment or solid, liquid, semi-
solid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial,
agricultural, or residential operations, on or near any street, road, right-of-
way, sidewalk, alley, drainage ditch or other public place. However, where any
drainage ditch is immediately contiguous with the premises where such grass,
shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree limbs and other materials accumulated as the
result of the care of lawn, shrubbery, vines and trees were produced by nature,
then the burning of such landscape waste in said drainage ditch shall be
permissible if residue of such fire is removed from said drainage ditch within
48 hours of the setting of said fire.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such
a way as to create a fire hazard, or to store any refuse of any kind on any
street, alley, or other public place.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1991-O-16, passed 8-
6-91) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.015 INJURIES TO PAVEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon,
or injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded
by a warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft newly laid
pavement.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to injure any sidewalk, street, or alley
pavement.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 DEPOSITS ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit, spill,
or track any material on any street or sidewalk which may be harmful to the
pavement thereof, or other articles or waste material which may do injury to
any person, animal, or property, including glass, dirt, clods, cement, or mud.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017 SNOW ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit any snow on any street, sidewalk, or public
way whether said snow be deposited by plowing, shoveling, scraping, by use of a
snow blower, or in any other manner.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.018 MERCHANDISE FOR DELIVERY.
   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks preparatory to
delivery, provided that the usable width of the walk is not thereby reduced to
less than four feet, and provided that no articles shall remain on such walk
for more than one-half hour.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.019 POLES AND WIRES; TREE TRIMMING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or wires on or
over any public street, alley, or other public way without having first secured
permission from the Board of Trustees. All persons, firms, or corporations
having such permission shall conform to the rules and regulations of the
village as may be required. See also the Subdivision Code, Rural Subdivision
Code, and the Design and Construction Policy for Improvement.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation given the right to maintain poles and
wires in the streets, alleys, or other public places in the village shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
wires and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so
far as may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly
trimmed, subject to the supervision of the Public Works Committee, so that no
injury shall occur either to the poles or wires or to the shrubs and trees by
contact.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.020 GAS PIPES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation maintaining any gas pipe in the village
shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject,
keep such pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any trees or
shrubs.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021 HOUSE NUMBERING.
   (A)   All lots, buildings, and structures in the village shall be numbered
in accordance with the following plan:
      (1)   On streets running north and south, the numbering shall begin at
State Line Road, and 100 units allotted to each block, beginning with 100 at
the first lot on the southwest corner of the intersection with State Line Road.
Even numbers shall be on the west and odd numbers on the east side of the
street, increasing towards the south.
      (2)   For streets running east and west, the numbering shall begin at
what was formerly Lake Shore Drive. Even numbers shall be on the north side and
odd numbers on the south side of the street, increasing towards the west.
      (3)   All numbers shall be designated according to the street upon which
the lot faces as shown on the duly accepted and recorded plat thereof. On
unsubdivided property, the numbers shall be designated in accordance with the
house numbering plan on file with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall keep a chart showing the proper street number
of every lot in the village, which shall be open to inspection by anyone
interested.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the builder of every new house or new
commercial building in the village to have placed thereon, in a place visible
from the street, figures showing that number of the new house or commercial
building. After occupancy of the house or commercial building, it shall become
the owner's responsibility to maintain such figures placed on the building so
as to be visible from the street. Any builder or owner of property who shall
violate this section shall be fined $25 for the first offense, $50 for the
second offense, $100 for the third offense, and $200 for the fourth and any
subsequent offense.
('79 Code, § 903) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1986-O-32, passed
12-2-86; Am. Ord. 1999-O-17, passed 6-15-99) Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.022 STREET LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any person or firm may apply to the office of the Superintendent of
Public Works to request that the village undertake the cost (including cost of
electricity) of maintaining street lights installed within the village,
provided that:
      (1)   The person or firm making application has been instrumental in
contracting for the erection of said street lights and the payment thereof;
      (2)   The person or firm has incurred the cost for the maintenance and
the electricity for the street lighting caused to be erected for a period of
time not less than two years;
      (3)   The street lighting shall be in conformity with specifications set
forth or approved from time to time by the Board of Trustees of the village.
   (B)   In those instances where the street light criteria as set forth in
division (A) have been met, the Department of Public Works shall accept the
responsibility of maintaining said street lights, and the applicant shall be so
notified.
('79 Code, § 914) (Ord. 1983-O-16, passed 7-5-83)
§ 52.023 GAMES; PLAYING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to play any games upon any street, alley, or sidewalk,
where such games interfere with traffic or pedestrians.
('79 Code, § 902) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.024 GLASS, NAILS IN ROAD.
   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw, or propel any missile on any street,
alley, or public place; and it shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass,
nails, tacks, or other similar articles on any street, sidewalk, or other
public place.
('79 Code, § 1909(19)) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.025 SCAFFOLDING OR LADDERS.
   Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a position that they overhang or can
fall onto any public street, alley, or other public place in the village shall
be firmly and properly constructed and safeguarded. It shall be unlawful to
place or leave any tools or articles on any such place in such a manner that
the same can fall onto such street, sidewalk, or other public way from a
greater height than four feet.
('79 Code, § 1909(15)) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026 DRAINAGE DITCHES.
   (A)   All drainage ditches within the right-of-way shall be maintained by
the person, firm or corporation whose property adjoins said drainage ditch and
shall maintain said drainage ditch free from any refuse, and shall periodically
cut all plant material to a maximum height of six inches.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to install any culvert, drain, pipe, stone or
other material into any drainage ditch within the right-of-way without written
application to and approval from the Superintendent of Public Works.
   (C)   Any installation into the drainage ditch, or lack of property owner
maintenance of the drainage ditch within the right-of-way or easement which
shall result in the flooding or obstruction to natural drainage, or other
damage associated with excess water collection or detention in said drainage
ditch; or that promotes the growth of algae or any genus of marsh type plant,
shall be removed or corrected upon notice by the Superintendent of Public Works
or any other village official, by its' installer or owner of said premises.
(Ord. 1991-O-16, passed 8-6-91)
ADVERTISEMENTS AND NOTICES
§ 52.030 OFFENSIVE HANDBILLS.
   No person shall post, hand out, distribute, or transmit any sign or any
commercial or noncommercial handbill which:
   (A)   May reasonably tend to incite riot or other public disorder; advocates
disloyalty to or the overthrow of the government of the United States or of
this state by means of any artifice, scheme, or violence; urges any unlawful
conduct; or encourages or tends to encourage a breach of the public peace or
good order of the community.
   (B)   Contains obscene (according to the United States Supreme Court
standards of obscenity), libelous, or scurrilous language.
('79 Code, § 904) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.031 POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   No person shall post, stick, stamp, paint, or otherwise fix, or cause the
same to be done by any person, any notice, placard, bill, card, poster,
advertisement, or other paper or device to or upon any sidewalk, crosswalk,
curb, or any portion or part of any public way or public place, or to any lamp
post, electric light, telephone pole, railway structure, hydrant, tree, shrub,
bridge, viaduct, or other public structure, building, or fire alarm except such
as may be authorized or required by law or ordinance.
('79 Code, § 904) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.032 PLACING HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall deposit or throw any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any vehicle. This section does not prohibit the distributing of any
noncommercial handbills to the owner or other
occupant of any automobile or other vehicle who is willing to accept the same.
('79 Code, § 904) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
DRIVEWAYS
§ 52.040 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct a driveway for vehicles
across any public sidewalk or parkway in the village without having first
obtained a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
Village Clerk. No permit for construction of a driveway for commercial use, or
for the habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of the premises
served, shall be issued except upon the order of the Building Inspector. Any
person constructing a driveway under any permit shall save and keep the village
free, clear, and harmless from any loss or liability on account of any accident
or damages resulting from such occupation or use. The Building Inspector shall
inspect the construction of said driveway. All construction shall conform to
all rules and regulations of the village.
('79 Code, § 906) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1987-O-2, passed 1-
6-87; Am. Ord. 1990-O-2, passed 2-6-90) Penalty, see §
52.999
Cross-reference:
   Safety regulations, see §§
52.060 -
52.064
   Excavation and construction requirements, see §§
52.070 -
52.081
§ 52.041 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All driveways and vehicle parking areas shall be constructed using
concrete, asphalt, paving brick or comparable all-weather, dustless material of
equal character and quality. No driveway or vehicle parking area shall be
constructed or graded as to leave a step, sharp depression or other obstruction
in any sidewalk. The grade of any driveway or parking area shall be as nearly
as possible the same as that of any adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to
construct or finish the surface of any driveway or vehicle parking area in any
slippery or hazardous material, or to have the grade of the area adjoining a
sidewalk vary from the grade of the sidewalk, or be other than level. It shall
be unlawful to construct or maintain a driveway or vehicle parking area without
installing an adequate culvert in the street adjoining such driveway or vehicle
parking area, unless the street has curb and storm sewer. The minimum culvert
shall be a 12-inch TY-1 corrugated riveted metal pipe, unless other
specifications are approved or required by the Superintendent of Public Works,
and shall conform to all other rules and regulations of the village.
   (B)   All concrete driveways shall be a minimum of five-inches thick and
shall have wire mesh or rods approved by the Building Inspector for
reinforcement installed not less than one inch from the bottom or less than one
inch from the top of the concrete.
   (C)   All asphalt driveways shall be a minimum of two inches of asphalt
compacted to one-and-a-half-inches thick over a six-inch base course of grade 9
gravel or equivalent material approved by the Building Inspector.
   (D)   All driveways constructed of paving bricks or blocks shall be
installed over an eight-inch base course of compacted grade 9 gravel or
equivalent material, and shall further conform to the Interlocking Concrete
Paving Institute Specification No. 2, and the Building Inspector shall have the
sole discretion to approve the specific installation in order to ensure
stability, reliability and strength, given the widely-varying characteristics
of soils found within the village.
('79 Code, § 906) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1987-O-2, passed 1-
6-87; Am. Ord. 1990-O-2, passed 2-6-90; Am. Ord. 1991-O-27, passed 11-5-91; Am.
Ord. 2000-O-13, passed 10-17-00; Am. Ord. 2011-O-14, passed 7-19-11) Penalty,
see §
52.999
§ 52.042 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   Driveway approaches shall be the responsibility of the builder and
shall be completed, inspected and approved by the Building Inspector prior to
the issuance of an occupancy permit.
   (B)   All driveway approaches shall extend from the edge of the road
pavement to the lot line of the parcel and shall be constructed in accordance
with the specifications set forth in Section (B)(2)(b) of the Design and
Construction Policy For Improvement of the Village of Winthrop Harbor.
   (C)   All driveway approaches shall be not less than 12-feet wide and not
more than 24-feet wide at the point of intersection with the lot line of the
parcel.
   (D)   No driveway approach shall flare more than three feet past its width
at the lot line at the point of intersection with the road pavement, unless the
Director of Public Works shall have given specific written permission to do so
after finding a site-specific safety need that requires the same.
   (E)   The allowing or requiring of a driveway approach to connect to the
public street over village right-of-way constitutes a mere license to the owner
of the property served by the driveway. Nothing in this section, this chapter
or this code evidences any intent of the village to abandon its ownership or
any and all rights it has in the full right-of-way under its jurisdiction and
control.
   (F)   Construction over the village's right-of-way is subject to strict
compliance with the permit given under this section. Any driveway approach
shall be constructed of the same material as the driveway unless a waiver is
granted. The Superintendent of Public Works has the sole discretion to issue a
waiver allowing the use of alternative materials when he or she finds that the
waiver will not pose any danger to public health, safety, comfort or welfare.
Such a waiver will be in writing, and will be maintained on file with the
property's building file.
(Ord. 1990-O-2, passed 2-6-90; Am. Ord. 2002-O-22, passed 6-4-02; Am. Ord.
2011-O-14, passed 7-19-11)
§ 52.043 CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete or such other
materials as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 906) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1990-O-2, passed 2-
6-90)
§ 52.044 MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining a driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and the driveway and culvert free
from obstruction.
('79 Code, § 906) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1990-O-2, passed 2-
6-90) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.045 TEMPORARY AND CONSTRUCTION DRIVEWAYS.
   No construction, site clearing or other intensive use of land shall be begun
unless and until a temporary driveway permit shall have been applied for,
obtained and the driveway installed. The permit process shall be the same as
that described in §
52.040 of this code. A temporary or construction driveway shall be constructed
by coring (for example, excavating) a roadbed to a depth of not less than six
inches and a width of not less than 12 feet. The cored roadbed shall then be
filled with compacted clean crushed gravel (grade 9 or equivalent). All ditches
shall be protected by an appropriately-sized culvert and care shall be taken to
protect sidewalks, curbs, gutters and underground pipes and utilities. The
permittees shall be responsible for any damage to any public structures and/or
public utilities, and shall be responsible to clean up any mud, debris or other
materials deposited from the site, including any coming from the construction
of the driveway on the public way or in any ditches, gutters or sewers. Any
person violating this section shall be subject to the penalty provided for in §
52.999.
(Ord. 2002-O-20, passed 5-7-02)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046 PUBLIC CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIRS.
   From time to time, as part of its obligations to maintain its streets,
sewers, drains and water lines, the village is required to dig within its
right-of-way or alter the grade of its roads or sidewalks. In order to
accomplish that work at a reasonable expense to the taxpayers, while still
acknowledging the beautification of neighborhoods and properties by property
owners installing aesthetically pleasing pavement choices such as paving bricks
or blocks, textured concrete or other relatively expensive material, the
village adopts the following policy.
   (A)    As set forth in §
52.042 hereinabove, the village's position as the owner of the right-of-way or
the easements for the underground utilities shall not be diminished by any
resident's installation on the right-of-way of surface materials, such as
pavement, bricks or blocks;
   (B)   The village shall be obligated to reasonably restore the surface area
when its work is complete.
      (1)   In particular, with respect to driveways and approaches that lie,
or partially lie, in the right-of-way, the village shall not be obliged to
restore any paving other than by use of materials that are no more expensive
than those used in the adjoining roadway.
      (2)   If the property owner wishes to install or reinstall any more
expensive materials, the village will compensate him or her to the same extent
that the repairs would have cost and to no further extent whatsoever.
(Ord. 2011-O-14, passed 7-19-11)
SIGNS AND AWNINGS
§ 52.050 PERMIT; ANNUAL FEE.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall maintain any sign or signboard or
rigid canopy extending over any street, sidewalk, or other public way in the
village without obtaining a permit therefor as herein provided. Permits for
such signs shall be issued by the Village Clerk upon payment of the fees
provided by the Board of Trustees, and shall designate the location of the
proposed sign. No rigid canopy permit shall be issued except upon approval of
the Board of Trustees. Any person maintaining any sign, signboard, or rigid
canopy over any street, sidewalk, or public way, under any permit, shall save
and keep the village free, clear, and harmless from any loss or liability on
account of any accident or damages resulting from such occupation or use. All
signs and awnings shall conform to all rules and regulations of the village.
('79 Code, § 907) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.051 TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   Temporary permits may be issued for the maintenance of a temporary sign for
a short time, upon the payment of a fee provided by the Board of Trustees for
each week or fraction thereof that such sign is maintained.
('79 Code, § 907) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.052 CONSTRUCTION.
   All signs and awnings extending over any street, alley, or other public
place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will be no danger
of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from any other cause.
('79 Code, § 907) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
2002 S-11
§ 52.053 PERMIT TERM.
   The period for which permits required by §§
52.050 and
52.051 shall run shall be the same as the general license year.
('79 Code, § 907) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.054 HEIGHT ABOVE PUBLIC WAY.
   The lowest part of any such sign or awning or its support which extends over
any public way shall be at least eight feet above the level of the walk or
public way over which it extends; but no such sign shall be maintained over any
public way used by vehicles if any part of its support or if the sign is less
than 15 feet above the level of such public way.
('79 Code, § 907) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.055 INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to inspect at regular
intervals every sign, awning, or canopy which extends over any sidewalk,
street, alley, or public way in the village. If any such sign is found to be
insecurely fastened, he shall report this fact to the owner of the sign or to
the owner or occupant of the premises on which it is fastened. If the sign is
not made secure within ten days after such notice, it may be torn down upon the
order of the Village President.
('79 Code, § 907) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
SAFETY REGULATIONS
§ 52.060 BARRICADES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on a
street, sidewalk, or other public place, making an excavation or tunnel,
maintaining any opening or stairway, or maintaining any piece of equipment on
any village street, sidewalk, thoroughfare, or public property in the village
shall provide and maintain suitable protective devices such as traffic cones,
covers, railings, and barricades with night lights in order to prevent injury
to any person or vehicle by reason of the work.
('79 Code, § 908) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.061 DEFECTS IN PAVEMENT.
   Defects in any pavement shall be barricaded to prevent any injury. Any
person, firm, or corporation properly maintaining any opening or excavation in
any such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the same remains
open by protective devices as set forth in §
52.060 and shall have adequate liability insurance coverage to protect the
village.
('79 Code, § 908) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.062 DISTURBING BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricade or lights
lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement, excavation, or opening in
any public street, alley, or sidewalk.
('79 Code, § 908) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.063 FLAGMEN.
   At all times during which workers and/or equipment are working on or near
any public roadway, street, alley, or other public place, the firm, person, or
corporation so engaged in any road work, excavation, tree felling, or branch
trimming or removal shall furnish flagmen in such numbers as necessary to
provide proper and adequate protection to vehicular traffic, pedestrians, or
persons in the immediate vicinity or "danger zone".
('79 Code, § 908) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.064 NOTICE TO POLICE.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who makes any excavation or tunnel in or
under any street, alley, or public place; engages in the removal or trimming of
any tree or bushes; or engages in any other project that causes obstruction or
renders impassable any street, alley, road, or public place, shall:
   (A)   Notify the police at least 24 hours in advance.
   (B)   Provide suitable warning devices, as stated in §
52.060.
   (C)   Notify the police at the time any road or thoroughfare is closed to
vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notify the police at such time as the road or thoroughfare has been
re-opened to vehicular traffic.
('79 Code, § 908) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.070 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to make any
excavation in any street, alley, or public place; to tunnel under any street,
alley, or public place; or to lay any pavement in the village without first
having obtained a permit as herein required or without complying with the
regulations herein contained.
('79 Code, § 909) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.071 APPLICATION.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk, and shall
state thereon the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size
thereof, the purpose therefor, the person, firm, or corporation doing the
actual excavating, the name of the person, firm, or corporation for whom the
work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the applicant will
comply with all ordinances relating to the work to be done. No such permit
shall be issued except on the order of the Building Inspector and the
Superintendent of Public Works. No such permit shall be issued unless and until
the applicant therefor has complied with all requirements or applicable rules
and regulations of the village.
('79 Code, § 909) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.072 TUNNELING.
   Tunneling for a distance of not greater than six feet away may be permitted
in yards, courts, or driveways of a building site. All excavations required for
installation of a building sewer system, or any part thereof, within the walls
of a building shall be open trench work. All trenches and tunnels shall be kept
open until piping has been inspected, tested, and approved.
('79 Code, § 909) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.073 BACKFILLING.
   Unless otherwise directed or approved by the Superintendent or his
representative, all sewer trenches and excavations shall be backfilled in the
following manner: all piping shall be bedded and covered to a minimum depth of
three inches over the top of the pipe with sand or approved granular material;
the remainder of the backfill shall be free of clods, stones, frozen material,
or other debris in excess of two inches in diameter.
('79 Code, § 909) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.074 COMPACTING.
   Trench backfill shall be compacted by water jetting the ditches. The method
of jetting the ditches shall be by placing a one inch or larger steel pipe to
within two feet of the bottom of the trench at intervals not to exceed 20 feet
and allowing the water to saturate the ditch until the excess water comes to
the surface of the ditch section. The compacting method prescribed herein shall
be strictly adhered to. Any variance from the prescribed method shall be with
the approval of the Superintendent of Public Works or the Superintendent's
representative only. In lieu of the prescribed method of compaction, the trench
shall be backfilled and hand or mechanically tamped in one-foot layers.
('79 Code, § 909) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.075 TRENCHES UNDER PAVED AREAS.
   All backfill material shall be clean, dry sand or granular backfill and
shall be hand or mechanically tamped in layers not to exceed one foot each to a
density equal to or greater than that of the adjacent original material, so
that pavement can be placed immediately. Sand or granular material shall mean a
fine granular material, free of silt, rocks, and other foreign material,
capable of passing a #10 sieve and having a hardness of not less than 3.
('79 Code, § 909) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.076 RESTORATION.
   (A)   All surfaces, streets, pavements, ditches, lawns, and the like shall
be restored to their original state or better. Any variance from this procedure
must be by written request and approval only. Requests must be made to the
Superintendent or his representative and shall state the reasons for variations
and the alternate plans for restoration.
   (B)   All drain tile encountered in trenching or excavating for a sanitary
sewer connection shall upon completion of the sewer tile or pipe, be restored
to its original condition and caused to operate to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent of the system.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any street, alley, or public place in the village shall restore said
street, alley, or public place to its original condition, including the
surfacing, which shall be done promptly upon the completion of the work for
which the excavation or tunnel was made.
      (1) In case of any unreasonable delay in so doing, the Village President
shall give notice to the person, firm, or corporation that unless the
excavation or tunnel is refilled with sand and the surface relaid so as to be
in the same condition as it was prior to the excavation within ten days, then
the village will do the work and charge the expense of doing the same to such
person, firm, or corporation.
      (2) If within the time mentioned the conditions of the above notice have
not been met, the work shall be done by the village, an accurate account of the
expense involved shall be kept, and the total cost shall be charged to the
person, firm, or corporation who made the excavation or tunnel.
('79 Code, § 909) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.077 SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF SKETCH.
   (A)   A neat, proportional, legible sketch shall be prepared and submitted
to the village offices and shall have the approval of the Superintendent of
Public Works. It shall contain all pertinent facts, information, and
measurements to be taken during and upon completion of construction. This
sketch or "As Built", shall contain the present owner's name, the street
address of the construction site, and adjoining roads, driveways, walkways, and
buildings. The sketch shall show and describe any and all materials,
connections, piping (existing or installed), methods of connection made, depths
of various piping and connections, and triangulation of "main" connections and
stub ends. Triangulations are to be taken from permanent installations such as
permanent buildings, fire hydrants, manholes, and the like, and shall show the
point at which the measurement was taken. The sketch shall also contain all
relevant information as to house connections, existing septic systems, and
grease traps that should be encountered during construction and what steps were
taken, if any, to eliminate the latter.
   (B)   The above information shall be kept on file for future reference,
along with other relative information, including permit records and the like.
('79 Code, § 909) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.078 COMPLETION OF WORK.
   When the work is completed, all surplus material, earth, rubbish, and the
like shall be removed, and the area disturbed by construction shall be left in
as good condition as it was before the commencement of the work.
('79 Code, § 909) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.079 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY HAZARD ACT REQUIREMENTS.
   Trenches and excavations for a sanitary sewer and water system shall be in
accordance with the Occupational Safety Hazard Act and any other requirements
or applicable rules and regulations of the village.
('79 Code, § 909) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.080 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall from time to time inspect or
cause to be inspected all excavations and tunnels made in or under any public
street, alley, or other public place in the village to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   The work of refilling any such tunnel or excavation shall not commence
until such an inspection has been made and approval given.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall be notified when any such tunnel or
excavation is ready for inspection no less than 24 hours in advance between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon daily, Monday through Friday.
('79 Code, § 909) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.081 RESURFACING.
   Prior to the installation of a plant-mix bituminous surface, a street or
roadway will be inspected by the Village Engineer and Superintendent of Public
Works. Streets and roadways shall be upgraded as necessary to insure an
adequate base, proper ditching, and drainage. Existing streets and roadways
having a width of not less than 20 feet shall be eligible to receive plant-mix
bituminous surfaces.
('79 Code, § 911) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
COST RECAPTURE
§ 52.090 PREREQUISITE FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   In those instances where the village has constructed or otherwise contracted
for the construction of a street or has an active recapture agreement for a
privately constructed street on previously dedicated property, no building
permit shall be issued for the construction of a residence or other building on
property adjacent to said street until the owner or agent of said adjacent
property has reimbursed, in full, the village for a proportionate share of the
cost of construction of said street or streets as set forth in §
52.091.
('79 Code, § 910) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1984-O-26, passed
10-2-84)
§ 52.091 STREET PROPERTY CHARGE.
   (A)   With respect to property on both sides of the street lying adjacent to
a street constructed by the village, there shall be a minimum charge
(hereinafter designated a "street property charge") of $21 for each foot
abutting a gravel street constructed by the village and $32 for each foot
abutting a blacktop street constructed by the village. Such street property
charge (which does not include the cost of the driveway culvert) shall
reimburse the village for the cost of constructing said street. If the street
constructed by the village includes storm sewers required for proper drainage
of said street and abutting properties, the street property charge shall be $46
per foot for gravel streets and $57 per foot for paved streets.
   (B)   In no event is this subchapter to be construed as obligating the
village to construct new streets in areas not now served where the cost of said
construction is not feasible or where the street property charge herein set
forth will not adequately reimburse the village for the cost of such
construction in the immediate future.
('79 Code, § 910) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1988-O-32, passed 9-
20-88; Am. Ord. 1996-O-26, passed 12-17-96)
§ 52.092 ADDITIONAL CHARGES.
   The sums herein provided to be paid as street property charges shall be in
addition to and exclusive of all other charges required and affixed by
ordinance for other village improvements. Further, this provision for the
construction and pavement of new streets shall be considered to be an
alternative method of financing and constructing streets within the village and
shall not be deemed to supersede other ordinances of the village relative to
the construction of streets.
('79 Code, § 910) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.093 CORNER LOTS.
   (A)   The property owner who has previously paid in full the front footage
charge for road improvements shall be allowed a footage credit up to, but not
to exceed 135 feet, for road improvements when constructed on the second side
of their property.
   (B)   This credit shall be calculated on a footage basis rather than a
monetary value as road frontage rates change from time to time. Further,
frontage credit allowed on the second side of property shall not exceed the
number of feet paid for under the first improvement.
   (C)   In the event of subsequent subdivision, the credit shall only apply to
the new corner lot. Undeveloped non-corner lots created by such subdivision
shall be charged, in full, the front footage charge for road improvements.
   (D)   Credit will only be given for exactly the same improvement.
   (E)   This section shall in no way be construed to eliminate all property
charges on the second side of a corner lot where improvements are made.
   (F)   In no event is this section to be construed as obligating the village
to construct new improvements in areas not now served.
   (G)   The Village Clerk shall keep full and complete records with regard to
such properties, and credit allowed to such.
('79 Code, § 910)
§ 52.094 STREETS AND STORM SEWER EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   A property owner, hereinafter sometimes referred to as "the licensee,"
with the approval of the village shall be entitled to construct streets and
storm sewer extensions benefiting not only the property owner making
application but other property owners benefited by said construction.
   (B)   Said property owner shall be entitled to recapture that portion
expended for the benefit of other property owners provided in the model
agreement, as shown in Appendix § 2 following this chapter, executed between
the village and the property owner which includes provisions covering the
following items:
      (1)   Date of commencement and date of completion.
      (2)   Legal descriptions of the properties benefited, specifying which
have and have not contributed to the costs.
      (3)   Exact location of mains and/or extensions.
      (4)   The exact amount to be reimbursed under recapture. This amount is
to be the exact, documented, direct expense of said construction less the
prorated amount of benefit to the licensee based on actual front footages of
all properties benefited as recorded.
      (5)   Construction shall be in accordance with §§
52.110 and
52.111.
      (6)   The completed construction shall be deeded to the village upon
completion of the work.
      (7)   The licensee shall be responsible for all repairs and maintenance
for one year following the completion of the extension and bear the costs of
the same during said period.
      (8)   The licensee shall file with the Village Clerk suitable evidence
that the village is protected by surety bond or by suitable liability insurance
against all claims for personal injuries and property damage.
      (9)   Provision for disposition of amounts received.
      (10) All funds collected by the village for the benefited properties
shall be promptly paid to the licensee up to the amount to be reimbursed.
Additional funds collected shall accrue to the Sewer and Water Fund or the
General Fund.
   (C)   Subject to the limitations set forth in division (B)(10) above and the
requirements of division (D) below, all funds collected by the village for the
benefited properties during the period following the commencement of the
physical installation of the street but prior to the passage of the final
recapture agreement shall be paid over to the licensee promptly upon passage of
the recapture agreement.
   (D)   It shall be the burden of the licensee to present a draft recapture
agreement in substantial conformity with the Model Recapture Agreement set
forth in Appendix 2 to this chapter to the Village Board for approval. The
licensee must present such a draft agreement and all necessary supporting
documents not sooner than the time at which the public improvements are
accepted by the village and not later than one year thereafter. Should the
licensee fail to present such a draft recapture agreement within that time
period, the licensee shall forfeit his or her right to payment for any funds
that would otherwise come due to him or her under division (C) of this section.
('79 Code, § 910) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1984-O-28, passed
10-16-84; Am. Ord. 2002-O-49, passed 12-3-02)
Cross-reference:
   Cost recapture (water/sewer), see §
50.086
ENCROACHMENTS ON RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 52.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT. That area lying between the project right-of-way
limits and the roadway right-of-way limits. The village will permit the state
and the county to enter within this area to perform all necessary construction
operations in connection with this improvement.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign, or other structure or object of any
kind (with the exception of utilities, public road signs, and municipally-owned
parking meters) which is placed, located, or maintained in, on, under, or over
any portion of the roadway right-of-way.
   PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT. Existing awnings, marquees, advertising signs, and
similar overhanging structures supported from buildings immediately adjacent to
the roadway right-of-way at locations where there is a continuous sidewalk
extending to and through the frontage of the building line, and which do not
impair the free and safe flow of traffic on the highway, may be permitted, upon
the approval of the State Department of Public Works and Buildings, to remain
under a permit issued by the State Department of Public Works and Buildings.
   ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes; also the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
('79 Code, § 912) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.101 ENCROACHMENT ON RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect or
cause to be erected, or to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment
within the limits of the project right-of-way or roadway right-of-way where no
project right-of-way lines have been established.
   (B)   Project right-of-way lines will hereafter be established, pursuant to
the agreement heretofore entered into by and between the village and the county
on June 20, 1972.
   (C)   The village agrees that it will cause to be removed all encroachments
less permanent in nature, such as overhanging structures supported by poles or
similar structures, movable signs, or advertising displays which are
encroachments within the roadway right-of-way.
   (D)   This subchapter is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be
construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinances or part of any
ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
('79 Code, § 912) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
52.999
STREET CONSTRUCTION FOR NEW HOMES
§ 52.110 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When a person constructs one or more homes in a single block of a
previously platted subdivision, that person shall improve the street roadway in
accordance with the requirements given herein and shall connect said street
roadway to a primary street as defined in § 152.05, said connection being in
accordance with the requirements given herein.
   (B)   The roadway cross section shall be as shown in Appendix § 1 following
this chapter. All materials and construction procedures shall be in accordance
with the "Standard Specifications of Road and Bridge Construction," State of
Illinois, Department of Transportation, adopted July 1, 1976, or the latest
revision thereof.
   (C)   General plans for roadway improvements shall be submitted with the
application for a building permit. Building permits shall not be issued until
roadway improvements are complete or a sum of money equal to 125% of the
estimated cost of the street is put into escrow.
   (D)   The line and grade as well as drainage provisions of the proposed
roadway shall be subject to the review of the Village Engineer and the Public
Works Superintendent.
   (E)   When roadway construction is completed, an inspection by the
Superintendent of Public Works and the Engineer shall be requested. The
inspection shall be performed between 20 and 35 days after the date of request.
The purpose of this time lapse is to allow some exposure to weather and
traffic. Any defects noted during the inspection shall be remedied within 30
days after written notice by the Superintendent or the Village Engineer. When
the corrective work has been performed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent and the Engineer, the Village Board of Trustees may grant
tentative approval. At this time, monies escrowed as security against road
construction will be released. The developer will be required at the same time
to post a corporate surety bond in the amount of 10% of the cost of roadway
construction to guarantee maintenance of the roadway for a period of two years
from the date of tentative acceptance. Cash or suitable bank letter of credit
may be substituted for the surety bond. When the aforesaid two years has
lapsed, the Superintendent and the Engineer shall perform a final inspection.
Any remaining defects shall be remedied within 15 days of final inspection.
When this corrective work has been performed, the Village Board shall grant
final acceptance, and at that time the surety bond shall be released. Where
unusual conditions so warrant, the Village Board may alter the terms set forth
in this section.
   (F)   Where it is intended that sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and/or water
mains be constructed as part of the complete street improvement, subgrade and
ditches shall be cut in prior to sewer and water main construction.
('79 Code, § 913) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 2001-O-5, passed 3-
6-01) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.111 AUTHORITY.
   Nothing contained in §
52.110 shall be construed so as to circumvent the requirements of Chapter 152
Subdivisions.
('79 Code, § 913) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not than
$500 for each offense plus the cost to the village for repair or correction of
the violation, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs.
(Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 1991-O-16, passed 8-6-91)
APPENDIX: FORMS AND EXHIBITS
Section
   
1.   Road cross section
   
2.   Model recapture agreement
§ 1 ROAD CROSS SECTION.
   The following is the road cross section as referred to in §
52.110(B):
(Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
§ 2 MODEL RECAPTURE AGREEMENT.
   The following is a "model recapture agreement" as set forth in §
52.094:
   MODEL RECAPTURE AGREEMENT
AN ORDINANCE REQUIRING THE PAYMENT OF FEES UPON COLLECTION TO ENABLE DEVELOPER
LICENSEE TO RECAPTURE THE COST OF WATER, SANITARY SEWER, AND STREET
IMPROVEMENTS BENEFITTING OTHER THAN HIS OWN PROPERTY.
   WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the Village of Winthrop Harbor to
cooperate with Developers in providing safety and adequate streets, and sewer
and water facilities in the Village.
   WHEREAS, the Village of Winthrop Harbor does not have funds available to
develop unimproved areas of the Village and wants to encourage Developers to
improve developing areas beyond improving just the property owned by them.
   WHEREAS, The Village of Winthrop Harbor will reimburse the Developer, for
funds expended for improvement of properties not owned by the Developer, from
funds to be received by the Village for changes, charges and fees as a result
of the improvements.
   WHEREAS, the Developer will dedicate the improvements to the Village of
Winthrop Harbor.
   WHEREAS, the Developer has, at the request of and under the authority and
direction of the Village of Winthrop Harbor, been installing water and sanitary
sewer facilities with improved roads, in accordance with plans and
specifications heretofore approved by the Village of Winthrop Harbor, on
(insert street name) in the Village of Winthrop Harbor.
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF WINTHROP HARBOR, LAKE COUNTY, ILLINOIS,
   Section 1: A license is hereby granted unto (insert Developer's Name), the
Developer, individually and as agent for certain property owners, hereinafter
referred to as "Licensee", for a period of five years from the date of passage
of this Ordinance and automatically expiring at the expiration of such time
unless renewed or extended by Ordinance of the Village of Winthrop Harbor, for
the construction of an improved road, a water main and sanitary sewer extension
in and upon (insert street name and/or location) in the Village of Winthrop
Harbor, Illinois, the construction area being more specifically described as
follows: (insert street name and/or location).
   Section 2: The property which Licensee does not presently own but which will
benefit from the streets or sewers and water mains, is legally described with
Permanent Identification Numbers as follows:
   (insert applicable P.I.N.'s)
   Section 3: It should be noted that the property which the Licensee has been
paid already, to wit: (insert all applicable properties and total dollar
amounts for such properties).
   Section 4: The following described property, to wit: (insert property
description(s)) has been and is being benefited by such improvements and has
not contributed to the cost thereof and is not owned by Licensee.
   Section 5: Licensee has constructed or caused to be constructed, at their
expense, water main and sanitary sewer in and upon (insert street name and/or
location) and improved the roadway upon (insert street name and/or location)
all in the Village of Winthrop Harbor.
   Section 6: That the construction of the (insert street name and/or location)
street, water main, and sanitary sewer improvements and extension have been in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by appropriate officials of
the Village and have been deeded to the Village of Winthrop Harbor upon the
completion of all work, final inspection with engineering approval and
acceptance will be by the Village of Winthrop Harbor, not sooner than one year
following the date of completion of such work.
   Section 7: That the construction of the street, water main, and sanitary
sewer extensions shall be in accordance with plans and specifications approved
by the Village of Winthrop Harbor.
   Section 8: Before the Licensee proceeded further with the construction of
the water main and sanitary sewer extensions, they or their agent must give
their written approval of the terms and conditions of this Ordinance by signing
acceptance thereof (attached hereto). The construction of said water main, and
sanitary sewer extensions together with its connection to the existing system,
now or at any time in the future, shall be subject to the inspection and
approval of the Village of Winthrop Harbor.
   Section 9: That the Licensee and other owners desiring to connect with the
proposed extension shall make application therefor to the Village of Winthrop
Harbor and shall pay therewith to the Village of Winthrop Harbor tap on fees
and water and sewer front foot assessments as specified by the Ordinances of
the Village of Winthrop Harbor. Licensee shall receive credit on such front
foot assessments for property owned by the Licensee as per section 2 above.
   Section 10: The Licensee, their heirs and assigns shall, from time to time,
elect one of their group as Treasurer, and shall from time to time notify the
Village Clerk of such officer. The Village Clerk shall pay all water and sewer
front foot assessment charges collected on (insert street name and/or location)
from each property connecting to said proposed sewer and water connection and
road frontage until such time as Licensee has been reimbursed to the extent of
(insert total cost of project) to such Treasurer upon collection thereof. The
Village of Winthrop Harbor, or the Village Clerk shall have no responsibility
or obligation towards said Licensee or anyone else concerning the collection
and disbursement of said water and sewer connection charges, except that the
Village, through the Village Clerk, shall be obligated to make the appropriate
disbursement to said Treasurer of the Licensee if and when such funds are paid
into the Village of Winthrop Harbor for that purpose. The Village of Winthrop
Harbor and the Village Clerk shall have no responsibility or obligation to the
Licensee for the proper disbursement of the funds after payment to the
Treasurer so designated.
   Section 11: The water main, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, and road extensions
were completed, tested and connected to the present systems within two years
from the date hereof; Licensee was responsible for obtaining all necessary
permits including permits required by the Environmental Protection Agency.
   Section 12: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance, the
Village of Winthrop Harbor shall have the sole ownership and control of any
portion of the proposed extension which is located on any street, alley or
other public way within the present or future corporate limits of the Village
of Winthrop Harbor.
   Section 13: The said Licensee shall execute a written acceptance of this
Ordinance within thirty (30) days and shall thereby be deemed to have jointly
and severally bound themselves and their heirs and assigns and successors in
title, to all of the provisions of this Ordinance. The rights and obligations
of said Licensee shall be deemed to run with the land and shall inure to and be
binding upon said lots now owned by the Licensee. This Ordinance shall be
effective immediately upon its passage and approval and shall constitute an
agreement, when accepted, between the Village of Winthrop Harbor and said
Licensee.
   PASSED by the Board of Trustees this     day of        , 19  .
   APPROVED:
                                
             MAYOR
   ATTEST:
                                
               VILLAGE CLERK
THE UNDERSIGNED hereby accepts and approves the foregoing Ordinance.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereto affixed our hand and seals this     day of
            ,
      LICENSEE:                                     
CHAPTER 53: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
53.01   Purpose and scope
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Annual registration required
   
53.04   Permit required; applications and fees
   
53.05   Action on permit applications
   
53.06   Effect of permit
   
53.07   Revised permit drawings
   
53.08   Insurance
   
53.09   Indemnification
   
53.10   Security
   
53.11   Permit suspension and revocation
   
53.12   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
53.13   General construction standards
   
53.14   Traffic control
   
53.15   Location of facilities
   
53.16   Construction methods and materials
   
53.17   Vegetation control
   
53.18   Removal, relocation or modification of utility facilities
   
53.19   Clean-up and restoration
   
53.20   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
53.21   Variances
   
53.22   Enforcement
   
53.23   Severability
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the village's residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   APPLICANT.  A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE.  The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE.  The Municipal Code of the Village of Winthrop Harbor, Illinois.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER.  The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or
conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY.  Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the
safety of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT.  Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION.  The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter.
For purposes of this chapter, FACILITY shall not include any facility owned or
operated by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Engineer and/or the Superintendent of Public Works to pose an
unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health or safety of persons or
property or to the ecological balance of the environment, including, but not
limited to explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products
or gases, poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any
substance determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law,
statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE.  The Illinois Highway Code, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 5 §§ 1-101 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 21-401.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY.  The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY.  Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or
sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
53.04 and
53.05 of this chapter.
   PRACTICABLE.  That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but riot limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
   PROMPT.  That which is done within a period of time specified by the
village. If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY.  Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and
other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in
the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY.  That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to §
53.10.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT.  A decision(s) consistent with generally
accepted engineering principles, practices and experience.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Village Superintendent of Public Works
or his or her designee.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or' more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. Sections 521 and following), as now or hereafter
amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an open video system
fee payable to the village through an open video system as defined in the Rules
of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. § 76.1500 and following),
as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER.  Means and includes every person engaged in
making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in § 21-201(v) of the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 21-201(v).
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Winthrop Harbor, Illinois.
   WATER LINES.  Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING.  Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to
soften the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Superintendent of Public Works (with a copy
of all materials provided to the Village Clerk), providing the utility's name,
address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of one or
more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection with
emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-
hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of insurance as
required in §
53.08 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required.  
      (1)   No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter) any facility
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any village right-of-way
which:
         (a)   Changes the location of the facility;
         (b)   Adds a new facility;
         (c)   Disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter); or
         (d)   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Superintendent of Public Works and
obtaining a permit from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
      (2)   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the Village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
53.08 of this chapter;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
53.10 of this chapter;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see §
53.21); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific utility that
is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any certificate of public
convenience and necessity or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District (other local or state entities with jurisdiction), have been
satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant's duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $250. No application fee is required
to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure
Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.05 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Village review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Superintendent
of Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the Superintendent of Public Works shall reject such
application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the Superintendent of
Public Works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements
of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations,
the Superintendent of Public Works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as
practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Public Works, that
the construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional village review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 65
§ 4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the Village that it intends to
commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the village not less than ten days prior to the commencement of
work requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the
commencement of work requiring excavation. The Superintendent of Public Works
shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be
placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Superintendent of Public Works fails to
provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either:
         (a)   Ten days after service of notice to the village by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction; or
         (b)   Twenty-five days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
53.04 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   Additional village review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted 45 days after
submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village, provided
the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances, and
regulations.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights-of-way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the village with
such village representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.07 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it be treated as a request for
variance in accordance with §
53.21 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits.  
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the village, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents, and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) and (b) below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X," "C," and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any
one accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability;
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker's compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
"It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of
a written notice addressed to the Village Clerk of such intent to cancel or not
to renew."
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in
no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) above, or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) above,
such as evidence that the utility is a "private self insurer" under the Workers
Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility's liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.10 SECURITY.
   (A)    Purpose. The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this division shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Superintendent of Public Works, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs that the village estimates are
likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where
the construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Superintendent
of Public Works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee
to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of
the construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this division for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The village, upon 14 days' advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division, may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the 14-day
notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the
permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in division
(C) above.
   (F)   Interest.  The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) above.
   (G)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which-may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. 
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such
removal to the village within ten days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
      (2)   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this division.
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or the suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A)
above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. 
      (1)    If the permittee fails to comply with the provisions of division
(C) above, the village or its designee may, at the option of the village:
         (a)   Correct the deficiencies;
         (b)   Upon not less than 20 days notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   After not less than 30 days notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the village.
      (2)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the Village for all
costs of removal.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the village no less
than 30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-
of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or
the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right-
of-way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding.  All required insurance coverage or bonding
must be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
      (7)   Flagger's Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Village Engineer and/or the Superintendent of Public Works shall
determine, in the exercise of sound engineering judgment, which principles
apply and such decision shall be final. If requested, the Village Engineer and/
or the Superintendent of Public Works shall state which standard or principle
will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to § 53.20 of this chapter,
the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division.
      (1)   No interference with village facilities. No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the Superintendent of Public Works
determines that the proposed location will require the relocation or
displacement of any of the village's utility facilities or will otherwise
interfere with the operation or maintenance of any of the village's utility
facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right- of- way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
      (3)   Ninety degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90 degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines" (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations. (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989)).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer and/or the Superintendent of Public Works from the edge of the
pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be excavated no more than 48 hours
in advance of boring or jacking operations and backfilled within 48 hours after
boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be
clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of Section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction."
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Village Engineer (Superintendent of Public
Works).
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction." When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Engineer (Superintendent of Public Works), the utility, at its
expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the
installed facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and
restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as
determined by the Engineer (Superintendent of Public Works).
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division is
permitted under § 53.21, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Village Engineer and/or the Superintendent of Public Works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
            1.   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair and
            2.   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                        Minimum Cover
Electric lines                          30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service   18 to 24 inches (0.6 m, as determined
lines                                   by village)
Gas or petroleum products               30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                              Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                        protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                    protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled "Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines," and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
               A.   The crossing is installed by the use of "moles," "whip
augers," or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation or
               B.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops.  All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of "moles," "whip augers," or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rightsof-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR § 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction," and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rightsof-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code for
Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-B 31.4).
      (5)   Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois."
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Superintendent of Public Works. With the
approval of the Superintendent of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for
ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards.  The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction," the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Superintendent of
Public Works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way
prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public
or an obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and
other property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval
must be obtained from the village.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Superintendent of Public
Works when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of
construction are those set forth in § 150.006 of this code.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence
and location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the
rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make
its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying
possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the
village or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its
underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in
accordance with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 50 § 1 et seq.)
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.17 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities - compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities - tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in the following paragraph, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Superintendent of Public Works that such spraying is the only
practicable method of vegetation control.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 2-14-07)
§ 53.18 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon,
the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the Village Engineer
(Superintendent of Public Works) determines that such removal will be in the
best interest of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the
village does not direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it,
by giving notice of abandonment to the village, the abandoning utility shall be
deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the
facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.19 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration
of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made
using materials and methods approved by the Superintendent of Public Works.
Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may be
extended by the Superintendent of Public Works for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.20 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Superintendent of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.21 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Superintendent
of Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Village Engineer and the
Superintendent of Public Works shall decide whether a variance is authorized
for each provision of this chapter identified in the variance request on an
individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Village Engineer and the
Superintendent of Public Works may authorize a variance only if the utility
requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Village Engineer and the Superintendent of Public
Works may require the utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable
standards and conditions that may or may not be expressly contained within this
chapter but which carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Village
Engineer and the Superintendent of Public Works under the provisions of this
chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Village Board. The application
for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Village Clerk within 30 days
after the date of such order, requirement, decision or determination. The
Village Board shall commence its consideration of the appeal at the Board's
next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven days after the filing
of the appeal. The Village Board shall timely decide the appeal.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.022 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies at law or in equity that the village may have for enforcement
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.23 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the village
will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 2007-O-33, passed 12-4-07)
CHAPTER 54: CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
Section
   
54.01   Customer service and privacy protection law
   
54.02   Enforcement
   
54.03   Customer credits
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW.
   (A)   Adoption. The regulations of ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 22-501 are hereby
adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video providers
offering services within the village’s boundaries.
   (B)   Amendments. Any amendment to the Cable and Video Customer Protection
Law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 2007-O-34, passed 12-4-07)
§ 54.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the Cable and Video
Protection Law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
village.
(Ord. 2007-O-34, passed 12-4-07)
§ 54.03 CUSTOMER CREDITS.
   The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5
§ 22-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for the next
billing cycle following the violation or following the discovery of the
violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for providing the credits
and the customer is under no obligation to request the credit.
(Ord. 2007-O-34, passed 12-4-07)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   The village, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 22-501(r)(1), does hereby
provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the Cable and
Video Protection Law by cable or video providers in addition to the penalties
provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a competitively
neutral basis and shall not exceed $750 for each day of the material breach,
and shall not exceed $25,000 for each occurrence of a material breach per
customer.
   (A)   Material breach means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   (B)   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least 30
days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material breach.
   (C)   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in division (B) above.
(Ord. 2007-O-34, passed 12-4-07)
CHAPTER 55: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
Section
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   Cable/video service provider fee imposed
   
55.03   PEG access support fee imposed
   
55.04   Applicable principles
   
55.05   No impact on other taxes due from holder
   
55.06   Audits of cable/video service provider
   
55.07   Late fees/payments
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   COMMISSION. The Illinois Commerce Commission.
   GROSS REVENUES. All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
      (1)   GROSS REVENUES shall include the following:
         (a)   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
         (b)   Event-based charges for cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges.
         (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
         (d)   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including but not limited to activation, installation, and
repair charges.
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service, including but not limited to service order and service
termination charges.
         (f)   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges,
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments.
         (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
         (h)   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to division (i) below.
         (i)   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications,
the portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
         (j)   The service provider fee permitted by ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 21-
801(b).
      (2)   GROSS REVENUES do not include any of the following:
         (a)   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad
debt, subject to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 21 -801(c)(1)(vi).
         (b)   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state-issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
         (c)   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
         (d)   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser's subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that
it will resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 5 § 21-801(b) with respect to the service.
         (e)   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state-issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes.
         (f)   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
         (g)   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service.
      (3)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 21-801(b) which would
otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the Commission pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5 § 21-401.
   PEG. Public, education and governmental.
   PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE. The amount paid under this chapter and ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5 §21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service areas within its
territorial jurisdiction.
   SERVICE. The provision of cable service or video service to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the Commission
pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE. The amount paid under this chapter and ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5 § 21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas within its
territorial jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE. Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d) or any video
programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables users to
access content, information, electronic mail, or other services offered over
the public internet.
(Ord. 2007-O-35, passed 12-4-07)
§ 55.02 CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Fee imposed. A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be 5% of the
holder's gross revenues.
   (C)   Notice to the village. The holder shall notify the village at least
ten days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the village.
   (D)   Holder's liability. The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following 30 days after receipt of the
ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the
holder's application notice sent pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 21-401(b)(6)
to the village.
   (E)   Payment date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (F)   Exemption.  The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   (G)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 21-301(c)
with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the
amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under division (B)
above.
(Ord. 2007-O-35, passed 12-4-07)
§ 55.03 PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   PEG fee imposed. A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the village in addition to
the fee imposed pursuant to §
55.02.
   (B)    Amount of fee. The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed
hereby shall be 1% of the holder's gross revenues or, if greater, the
percentage of gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the village
or its designee for PEG access support in the village.
   (C)   Payment. The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the
village or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG access. The
holder's liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date
set forth in §
55.02(D).
   (D) Payment due. The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation bf the fee.
   (E)   Credit for other payments.  An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5 § 21-301(c)
shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary payments for PEG
access that would have been due during the remaining term of the agreement had
it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments made by an
incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited
against the fees that that operator owes under division (B) above.
(Ord. 2007-O-35, passed 12-4-07)
§ 55.04 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES.
   All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 2007-O-35, passed 12-4-07)
§ 55.05 NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state-issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state-issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges.
(Ord. 2007-O-35, passed 12-4-07)
§ 55.06 AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.
   (A)   Audit requirement. The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act, ILCS Ch. 50,
Act 45 § 1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an
accord that the amounts are correct.
   (B)   Additional payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within 30 days after the village's submission of an invoice for the sum.
(Ord. 2007-O-35, passed 12-4-07)
§ 55.07 LATE FEES/PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this village pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of
Rights Act, ILCS Ch. 50, Act 45 § 1 et seq.
(Ord. 2007-O-35, passed 12-4-07)
CHAPTER 56: ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
56.01   Purpose; intent
   
56.02   Definitions
   
56.03   Responsibility for administration
   
56.04   Applicability
   
56.05   Compatibility with other regulations
   
56.06   Ultimate responsibility
Discharge Regulations
   
56.15   Discharge prohibitions
   
56.16   Suspension of MS4 access
   
56.17   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
56.18   Monitoring of discharges
   
56.19   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by
use of BMPs
   
56.20   Watercourse protection
   
56.21   Notification of spills
Violations; Enforcement
   
56.30   Notice of violation
   
56.31   Appeal of notice of violation
   
56.32   Enforcement
   
56.33   Cost of abatement of violation
   
56.34   Injunctive relief
   
56.35   Compensatory action
   
56.36   Violation deemed public nuisance
   
56.37   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
56.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewer and Water, see
Chapter 50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 56.01 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the Village of Winthrop Harbor through the
regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the stormwater drainage system to
the maximum extent practicable, as required by federal and state law. This
chapter establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into
the village’s municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply
with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit program.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08)
§ 56.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the municipal
agency designated to enforce this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, stormwater pollution prevention
and educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or
indirectly to stormwater, receiving waters, and stormwater drainage systems.
BMPs also include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to
control site runoff, spillage, leaks, sludge and wastewater disposal, and
drainage from raw materials storage areas.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to an NPDES construction site
activities permit. Currently, these activities include construction projects
resulting in a land disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities include,
but are not limited to, clearing, grubbing, grading, excavating, and
demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics, may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
stormwater drainage system, except as exempted in §
56.15.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the stormwater drainage system,
including, but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater
discharges such as sewage, process wastewater, and wash water, to enter the
stormwater drainage system and any connections to the stormwater drainage
system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether the drain or
connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized
enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the stormwater drainage system which has not been documented in
plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement
agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.  Activities subject to an NPDES industrial activities
permit as defined in 40 CFR § 122.26(b)(14).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). The system of stormwater
drainage facilities, including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems,
municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels and
storm drains, owned and operated by the Village of Winthrop Harbor and used for
collecting and/or conveying stormwater. The MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER
SYSTEM is not used for collecting and/or conveying sewage.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the stormwater drainage system
that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, solvents, oil and other
automotive fluids, non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes, yard wastes, refuse,
rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordnances,
accumulations that may cause or contribute to pollution, floatables,
pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, hazardous substances and wastes, sewage,
fecal coliform and pathogens, dissolved and particulate metals, animal wastes,
wastes and residues that result from construction activity, and noxious or
offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water resulting from any form of natural precipitation.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The facilities by which stormwater is collected
and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, sidewalks, roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, receiving waters, and
stormwater drainage systems to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from any premises.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08)
§ 56.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Village of Winthrop Harbor shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the authorized
enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of
or in the employ of the Village of Winthrop Harbor.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08)
§ 56.04 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the stormwater drainage
system and generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly
exempted by the authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08)
§ 56.05 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule,
regulation, or other provision of law. The requirements of this chapter are in
addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law, and where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher
protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08)
§ 56.06 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth in this chapter and promulgated pursuant to this
chapter are minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend, nor
imply, that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no
contamination or pollution of stormwater or unauthorized discharge of
pollutants to the stormwater drainage system or to waters of the United States.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08)
DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
§ 56.15 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. 
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
stormwater drainage system or waters of the United States any materials,
pollutants, or waters containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a
violation of applicable water quality standards.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct, or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the stormwater drainage system is prohibited except as described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing, fire hydrant flushing,
discharges from potable water sources, landscape irrigation, lawn watering,
rising groundwater, groundwater infiltration, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, diverted stream flows, natural riparian habitat and wetland flows,
springs, storm sewer cleaning water, street wash water from streets where
spills or leaks of pollutants or toxic or hazardous materials has not occurred
(unless the pollutants or toxic or hazardous materials have been removed),
foundation drains, footing drains, crawl space pumps, air conditioning
condensation, non-commercial vehicle washing, routine external building washing
that does not use detergents, dechlorinated swimming pool discharges
(discharges must contain less than one part per million chlorine), fire
fighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants or
toxic or hazardous materials.
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test.
         (d)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and all other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted by the authorized enforcement agency for the discharge to the
stormwater drainage system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections. The construction, use,
maintenance, or continued existence of illicit connections to the stormwater
drainage system is prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, without
limitation, illicit connections made in the past, regardless of whether the
connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at
the time of connection. A person is considered to be in violation of this
chapter if the person connects a line conveying sewage or any other non-
stormwater discharge to the MS4, or allows such a connection to continue.
Improper connections in violation of this chapter must be disconnected and
redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater management system or
the sanitary sewer system upon approval of the authorized enforcement agency.
Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps or
equivalent, and which may be connected to the stormwater drainage system, shall
be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written
notice of violation from the authorized enforcement agency requiring that such
locating be completed. Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within
which the location of the drain or conveyance is to be determined, that the
drain or conveyance be identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and
that the outfall location or point of connection to the stormwater drainage
system, sanitary sewer system or other discharge point be identified. Results
of those investigations are to be documented and provided to the authorized
enforcement agency.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08)
§ 56.16 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Emergency cease and desist orders. When the Village of Winthrop Harbor
finds that any person has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, or any order issued hereunder, or that the person’s past
violations are likely to recur, and that the person’s violation(s) has/have
caused or contributed to an actual or threatened discharge to the MS4 or waters
of the United States which reasonably appears to present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or to the
environment, the Village of Winthrop Harbor may issue an order to the violator
directing such person immediately to cease and desist all such violations and
directing the violator to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements of this chapter; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
Village of Winthrop Harbor may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, to the health or welfare of persons, to the MS4, or
to waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or
waters of the United States and to minimize danger to persons.
   (C)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator, in writing, of the
proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the
authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
   (D)   A person violates this chapter if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior written
approval of the authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.17 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an NPDES construction site activities permit or NPDES
industrial activities permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
The person shall submit to the Village of Winthrop Harbor a copy of the notice
of intent (NOI) that was provided to the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency (IEPA). Additional proof of compliance with an NPDES construction site
activities permit or NPDES industrial activities permit may be required, in a
form acceptable to the Village of Winthrop Harbor, prior to the allowing of
discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.18 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The authorized enforcement agency shall be permitted to enter and
inspect premises subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency.
   (B)   Facility operators shall allow the authorized enforcement agency ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination, copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an
NPDES permit, and the performance of any additional duties as required by state
and federal law.
   (C)   The authorized enforcement agency shall have the right to set up on
any premises such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the authorized
enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the premises’
stormwater discharge.
   (D)   The authorized enforcement agency has the right to require the
discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
premises to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the authorized enforcement agency
and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by
the operator.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the authorized enforcement agency
access to a premises is a violation of this chapter. A person who is the
operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated
with industrial activity commits a violation of this chapter if the person
denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted
facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by
this chapter.
   (G)   If the authorized enforcement agency has been refused access to any
part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and it is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter
or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety,
and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.19 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
USE OF BMPs.
   The owner, or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall
provide, at his or her own expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal stormwater
drainage system or waters of the United States through the use of structural
and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or
premises which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be
required to implement, at the person’s expense, additional structural and non-
structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a
valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliant with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.20 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse so that
such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.21 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or any person responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation, has information regarding any known or suspected
release of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or
in pollutants entering stormwater, the stormwater drainage system, or waters of
the United States, the person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a
release of hazardous materials, the person shall immediately notify emergency
response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the
event of a release of non-hazardous materials, the person shall notify the
authorized enforcement agency in person, by phone, or by facsimile no later
than the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be
confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the Village of Winthrop
Harbor within three business days of the phone call or personal notice. If the
discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years. Failure to
provide notification of a release as provided above is a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08) Penalty, see §
56.99
VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT
§ 56.30 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Village of Winthrop Harbor finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the
authorized enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of
violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require, without
limitation:
      (1)    The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)    That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
      (4)    The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)    Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)    The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. The notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work may be performed by the authorized enforcement agency and the expense
thereof shall be charged to the violator.
   (C)   In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public
health or public safety, the authorized enforcement agency is authorized to
enter upon the subject private property, without giving prior notice, to take
any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the
property. The authorized enforcement agency is authorized to seek the costs of
the abatement as outlined in §
56.33.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08)
§ 56.31 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
15 days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before
a hearing officer of the Village of Winthrop Harbor, or other designated
administrative body, shall take place within 30 days from the date of receipt
of the notice of appeal. The decision of the designated hearing officer shall
be final.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08)
§ 56.32 ENFORCEMENT.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days
of the decision of the designated hearing officer, then the authorized
enforcement agency reserves the right to enter upon the subject private
property and to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/
or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the authorized
enforcement agency or designee to enter upon the premises for the purposes set
forth above. The authorized enforcement agency may extend the period for
corrective action upon a showing of good cause for extension of the corrective
action period.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.33 COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation by the authorized
enforcement agency, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of
abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may file a
written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment within 15 days. If
the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by the decision
of the designated management agency or by the expiration of the time in which
to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the
property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall
become liable to the Village of Winthrop Harbor by reason of such violation.
The liability shall be paid in not more than 12 equal monthly payments.
Interest at the rate established by ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-1303 shall be
assessed on the balance beginning on the first day following discovery of the
violation.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.34 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the authorized
enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.35 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions including, but not limited to, storm drain
stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops and cleanup activities.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.36 VIOLATION DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.37 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
within the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies.
   (B)   The authorized enforcement agency may recover all attorney’s fees
court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter,
including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08)
§ 56.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall
be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall
be subject to a criminal penalty of not less than $50 and not more than $500
per violation per day.
   (B)   Each violation and each day upon which an individual violation occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-O-3, passed 3-4-08)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   EQUIPMENT; LOADS; TRUCKS
      
76.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
77.   VEHICLE TOWING REGULATIONS
      
78.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
79.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.10   Obedience to police officers
   
70.11   Public officers and employees to obey traffic code; exceptions
   
70.12   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
70.13   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
Traffic Signs, Signals and Markings
   
70.30   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.32   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.33   Lane-control signals
   
70.34   Flashing signals
   
70.35   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings, or advertising signs
   
70.36   Interference with official traffic-control devices or structures
   
70.37   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances, and structures
   
70.38   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.39   Zones of quiet
   
70.40   No-turning signs and turning markers
   
70.41   Stop and yield signs
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ALLEY. A public way a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots or
buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-102)
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled-access
highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated
by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major
arterial system of streets or highways. (ILCS Ch. 70, Act 1205, § 3-9)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper state,
county, or local authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the Fire Department;
vehicles of a HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board
under  ILCS Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1127; ambulances; vehicles of the Illinois
Department of Corrections; vehicles of the Illinois Department of Juvenile
Justice; vehicles of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency; vehicles of the
Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal; mine rescue and explosives emergency
response vehicles of the Department of Natural Resources; vehicles of the
Illinois Department of Public Health; vehicles of the Illinois State Toll
Highway Authority identified as Highway Emergency Lane Patrol; vehicles of the
Illinois Department of Transportation identified as Emergency Traffic Patrol;
and vehicles of a municipal or county emergency services or disaster agency, as
defined by ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having 2  tandem wheels, either of which is more than 16 inches in
diameter. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten persons. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway, when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks, or office
buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction  over
the highway, street, or roadway. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112)
   CROSSWALK.  
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.  A self-balancing, 2 non-tandem
wheeled device designed to transport only 1 person with an electric propulsion
system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 miles per hour or
less. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 §, 1-117.7)
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-120)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of load thereon. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 1-125)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-126)
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock rasing operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers, or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry, provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer, or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000
pounds, shall be included hereunder. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone, or gravel. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131)
   IN-LINE SPEED SKATES. A manufactured or assembled device consisting of an
upper portion that is intended to be secured to a human foot, with a frame or
chassis attached along the length of the bottom of the upper portion, with the
frame or chassis holding two or more wheels that are longitudinally aligned and
used to skate or glide by means of human foot and leg power while having the
device attached to each foot or leg. The upper portion may not extend more than
two inches above the wearer’s ankle joint. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131.5)
   INTERSECTION.  
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132)
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control, and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver’s license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit;
      (3)   Any nonresident’s driving privilege as defined herein.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, village, and other local board or body
having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution and
laws of this state. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States mail properly addressed and with
postage prepaid. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141)
   MOPED. A motor-driven cycle, with or without optional power derived from
manually operated pedals, whose speed attainable in one mile is at least 20
m.p.h. but not greater than 30 m.p.h., and is equipped with a motor that
produces two brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is
used, the displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and
the power drive system shall not require the operator to shift gears. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-148.2)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, except for vehicles
moved solely by human power, motorized wheelchairs, low speed electric
bicycles, and low-speed gas bicycles. For this section, motor vehicles are
divided into two divisions:
      (1)   First division. Those motor vehicles which are designed for
carrying not more than ten persons.
      (2)   Second division. Those motor vehicles which are designed for
carrying more than ten persons, those designed or used for living quarters,
those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or
cargo, and those motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and
used as motor vehicles of the second division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider, and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding an autocycle or tractor. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle, including a three-wheeled
vehicle, designed for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable
of a speed in excess of eight m.p.h. on level ground. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
1-148.3)
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.6)
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not-for-hire. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic. (ILCS
Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-155)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156)
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
persons. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates or riding a
skateboard, including a person with a physical, hearing, or visual disability.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158)
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a licensed physician assistant, by a licensed advanced practice
registered nurse, or by a licensed physical therapist: (1) cannot walk without
the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane, crutch, another person,
prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive device; (2) is restricted by
lung disease to such an extent that his or her forced (respiratory) expiratory
volume for one second, when measured by spirometry, is less than one liter, or
the arterial oxygen tension is less than 60 mm/hg on room air at rest; (3) uses
portable oxygen; (4) has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s
functional limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV,
according to standards set by the American Heart Association; (5) is severely
limited in the person’s ability to walk due to an arthritic, neurological,
oncological, or orthopedic condition; (6) cannot walk 200 feet without stopping
to rest because of one of the above five conditions; or (7) is missing a hand
or arm or has permanently lost the use of a hand or arm.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts his
principal business, or where he makes up and approves his payroll, maintains a
central file of records, and maintains his principal executive offices. In the
event that not all of these functions are performed in one place, then that
place where a majority of these functions are performed, or the place where the
person does in fact principally transact and control his business affairs shall
be considered as the principal place of business. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
163)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166)
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device, other than an
official traffic-control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws
governing the same, and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad
tracks or the approach of a railroad train or railroad track equipment. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 167)
   RAILROAD TRACK EQUIPMENT. All vehicles operated upon rails for the purpose
of the maintenance of railroads including, but not limited to, all hi-rail
vehicles and on-track roadway maintenance machines, as defined in 49 CFR, Part
214.7. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 167.5)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars. (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 1-168)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper, or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169)
   REGISTRATION. The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of this state pertaining to the registration of
vehicles. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER. A device to be attached to a registration plate that
will renew the registration and registration plate or plates for a
predetermined period, not to exceed one registration year. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 1-171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering, or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals, or a fire department,
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances and associated with some unit of
government. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.6)
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured, and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life- endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not
comprising a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business. For purposes of establishing maximum speed
limits, a RESIDENCE DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with
residences or residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more
than 500 feet apart. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172)
   RETAIL SALE. The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 1-174)
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
Secretary, of a person’s license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration, except that an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the Secretary after the expiration of at least one year after the
date of revocation. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn. (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-178)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-179)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of the entity:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private, or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition does not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, village corporation, or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when the bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
            1. On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying passengers;
            2. Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with special events; or
            3. Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the First Division.
         (c)   A multifunction school-activity bus.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-182)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-187)
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION.
      (1)   A conviction when operating a motor vehicle for:
         (a)   A violation of §
76.05(A), relating to a motor vehicle crash involving damage to a vehicle;
         (b)   A violation of §
76.04, relating to failure to stop and exchange information after a motor
vehicle collision, property damage only;
         (c)   A violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-502(a), relating to
illegal transportation, possession, or carrying of alcoholic liquor within the
passenger area of any vehicle;
         (d)   A violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101 relating to
operating a motor vehicle without a valid license or permit;
         (e)   A violation of §
76.04, relating to failure to stop and exchange information or give aid after a
motor vehicle collision involving personal injury or death;
         (f)   A violation relating to excessive speeding, involving a single
speeding charge of 26 miles per hour or more above the legal speed limit;
         (g)   A violation relating to reckless driving;
         (h)   A violation of §
71.047(D), relating to passing in a no-passing zone;
         (i)   A violation §
71.095(B), relating to limitations on backing upon a controlled access highway;
         (j)   A violation of §
71.047(B), relating to driving on the left side of a roadway in a no-passing
zone;
         (k)   A violation of §
74.02(E), relating to failure to yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian at an
intersection;
         (l)   A violation of §
74.09, relating to failure to yield to a pedestrian on a sidewalk; or
         (m)   A violation of §
71.080, relating to failure to stop for an approaching railroad train or
railroad track equipment or signals; or
      (2)   Any other similar violation of a law or local ordinance of any
state relating to motor vehicle traffic control, other than a parking
violation.
      (3)   A violation of any of these defined serious traffic offenses shall
not preclude the defendant from being eligible to receive an order of court
supervision under Section 5-6-1 of the Unified Code of Corrections. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 1-187.001)
   SHOULDER. That portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-
187.1)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-188)
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a province of the Dominion of
Canada. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may from
time to time be amended. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois state police. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-197)
   STOP. The complete cessation from movement. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-199)
   STOP or STOPPING. Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-201)
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. That portion of any city, village, or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-203)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5 § 1-205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow, or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline, or
auxiliary axle, or to render assistance to disabled vehicles, except for any
truck tractor temporarily converted to a tow truck by means of a portable
wrecker unit attached to the fifth wheel of the truck tractor and used only by
the owner to tow a disabled vehicle also owned by him or her and never used for
hire. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-205.1)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically, or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS. Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-209)
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5
§ 210.01)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, travel, or camping use. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5 § 1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn, or a power unit that carries as
property motor vehicles when operating in combination with a semitrailer in
transporting motor vehicles or any other commodity, including cargo or general
freight, on a backhaul. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 §1-212)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5
§ 1-214.8)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of 1/4 mile or
more. (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-214)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-101(d), except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and snowmobiles as
defined in the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a vehicle until such time it either comes
within the definition of a “junk vehicle”, as defined under this section, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For this section vehicles are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   First division. Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons;
         (b)   Second division. Those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons; those designed or used for living quarters; those which
are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight, or cargo and those
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as vehicles of the
second division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 1-217)
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.10 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, firefighter, person authorized by a local
authority to direct traffic, or uniformed adult school crossing guard invested
by law with authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, the state, or any county, city, town, district,
or any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this
section, and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals meeting the
requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 12-215.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL- DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who,
having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing the
driver or operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, willfully fails or refuses
to obey that direction, increases his speed, extinguishes his lights, or
otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer. The signal given by the
police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or a red or blue light. However,
the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and, if driving a
vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official police
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
§ 70.30 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed or held in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this chapter for which official traffic-control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no devices
are erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter and
purports to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining to such device, such
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this
chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic control signal on which
no signal light facing such vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a stop
sign. This provision does not apply to the driver of a vehicle approaching a
pedestrian hybrid beacon.
   (F)   Any violation of division (A) above that occurs within a designated
highway construction zone or maintenance zone shall result in a fine of no less
than $100 and no more than $1,000.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (B-5)   Flashing yellow arrow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a flashing yellow arrow indication may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a flashing yellow arrow indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in § 70.32, may
proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk that crosses
the lane or lanes used to depart the intersection by traffic controlled by the
flashing yellow arrow indication. Pedestrians shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the flashing yellow
signal indication is first displayed.
   (C)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) and (4) of this section,
vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection; and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) and (4) of this section,
vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the
intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering
the intersection to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection; and shall remain standing
until an indication permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and the village
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street
into a one-way street, after stopping as required by division (C)(1) or (C)(2)
of this section. After stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or
within the intersection or junction or roadways. The driver shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   After stopping as required by division (C)(1) and (2), the driver
of a motorcycle or bicycle, facing a steady red signal which fails to change to
a green signal within a reasonable period of time not less than 120 seconds
because of a signal malfunction or because the signal has failed to detect the
arrival of the motorcycle or bicycle due to the vehicle's size or weight, shall
have the right to proceed, after yielding the right-of-way to oncoming traffic
facing a green signal, subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign as required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204.
      (5)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow signal alone shall
not enter the roadway.
   (D)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their nature can
have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made; or, in the absence of
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Don't Walk" or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   "Walk" or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   "Don't Walk" or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed his crossing on the "Walk" signal or upraised palm symbol
shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the "Don't Walk" signal or
upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady, or flashing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings:
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow normal
safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise he
shall obey all other traffic controls, and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in conjunction
with a traffic-control device, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (C)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS, OR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person may place or maintain, nor may any public authority permit,
upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising.
   (C)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is empowered
to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in this village which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (F)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection of Illinois
Adopt-A- Highway signs by the village as provided in the Illinois Adopt-A-
Highway Act, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-310) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control
device, or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any other part thereof.
   (B)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other penalties which
may be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-311)
§ 70.37 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any
public highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage,
injure, or remove any sign, signpost, or structure upon or used or constructed
in connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or
for the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper, or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction, or
removal thereof.
   (B)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine of at least $250 in addition to any other penalty which may
be imposed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-312) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The village, with reference to traffic-control signs, signals, or markers
owned by the village, is authorized to indicate the ownership of the signs,
signals, or markers in letters not less than inch, or more than ¾ inch in
height, by use of a metal stamp, etching, or other permanent means. Except for
employees of the village police officers, contractors and their employees
engaged in a highway construction contract or work on the highway approved by
the village, it is unlawful for any person to possess a sign, signal, or marker
so identified.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-313) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device except in an emergency.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.40 NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign. When authorized marks, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
§ 70.41 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorman of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersection roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which another
penalty is not already otherwise provided, shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine of not more than $500.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 16-104)
   (B)   It is unlawful to violate any part of §
71.080.
      (1)   A violation of this section is a petty offense for which a fine of
$500 shall be imposed for a first violation, and a fine of $1,000 shall be
imposed for a second or subsequent violation. The court may impose 25 hours of
community service in place of the $500 fine for the first offense.
      (2)   For a second or subsequent violation, the Secretary of State may
suspend the driving privileges of the offender for a minimum of six months.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201(e))
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
74.08(E) or (F) may pay the fine and costs in accordance with the schedule
hereinafter set forth by mailing the amount thereof by check, money order, or
by leaving the amount thereof with the Police Department of the village. The
remittance must be accompanied by a signed plea of guilty and waiver of
hearing.
      (1)   Fines and costs shall be remitted as follows:
 
Section 74.08(E) and (F)
Penalty Schedule
                                                           For the 3rd Offense
Fine and Costs     For the 1st Offense For the 2nd Offense (and all subsequent
                                                           offenses)
If paid within 10
days after date of $35                 $50                 $75
issuance of arrest
ticket
If paid later than
10 days after date $50                 $75                 $100
of issuance of
arrest ticket
 
      (2)   Police officers, after making note of the name of the offender
(where possible), may issue a violation ticket notifying the offender to appear
in court at a time designated for hearing the cases. The officer may sign a
complaint for issuance of a warrant if the offender does not appear at the time
and place so notified. In either event, the court may tax the costs as are
provided for by law in these instances.
(Ord. 2003-O-33, passed 12-2-03)
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
Speed Restrictions
   
71.001   Speed limits
   
71.002   Special speed limits while passing schools and while traveling through
highway construction or maintenance zones
   
71.003   Maximum attainable operating speed
   
71.004   Minimum speed regulation
Seat Belts Required
   
71.010   Seat belts required
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
71.020   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.021   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.022   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.023   When signal required
   
71.024   Signal by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.025   Method of giving hand and arm signals
Overtaking and Passing
   
71.040   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.041   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.042   Overtaking vehicles on the left
   
71.043   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
71.044   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.045   Meeting or overtaking school bus
   
71.046   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.047   No-passing zones
   
71.048   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Right-of-Way
   
71.060   Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   
71.061   Vehicle turning left
   
71.062   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
71.063   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.064   Merging traffic
   
71.065   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.066   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.067   Funeral processions
Special Stops Required
   
71.080   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train or railroad track
equipment
   
71.081   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.082   Emerging from alley, building, private road, or driveway
   
71.083   Stop when traffic obstructed
Prohibitions
   
71.095   Backing
   
71.096   Following vehicle too closely
   
71.097   Obstruction of driver's view or driving mechanism
   
71.098   Opening vehicle doors
   
71.099   Coasting
   
71.100   Following fire apparatus; driving over fire hose
   
71.101   Driving upon sidewalk
   
71.102   Use of roller skates, coasters, or similar devices
   
71.103   Putting glass or other hazardous materials on highway prohibited
   
71.104   Obstructing person in highways
   
71.105   Farm tractor operation
   
71.106   Driving on controlled-access highway
Parades
   
71.120 Definitions
   
71.121 Permit required
   
71.122 Application for permit
   
71.123 Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.124 Notice of rejection of permit application
   
71.125 Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.126 Alternative permit
   
71.127 Notice to village and other officials when permit issued
   
71.128 Contents of permit
   
71.129 Duties of permittee
   
71.130 Public conduct during parades
   
71.131 Revocation of permit
 
   
71.999 Adoption of Illinois Vehicle Code
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.001 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this village at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or which endangers the safety of any
person or property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway, or when a special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any street at a speed which is
greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit established by
divisions (C) and (D) below, by §
71.002, or by a regulation or ordinance made under this chapter.
   (C)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district (as defined in §
70.01) for all vehicles is:
      (1)   Thirty miles per hour; and
      (2)   Fifteen miles per hour in an alley.
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in a non-urban district shall be as determined under
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601) Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-40-1 and 11-604
§ 71.002 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS AND WHILE TRAVELING THROUGH
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE ZONES.
   (A)   School zones.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL means the following
entities:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school.
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution.
         (c)   A public, private, or religious nursery school.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, a SCHOOL DAY begins at 6:30 a.m.
and concludes at 4:00 p.m.
      (3)   On a school day when school children are present and so close
thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the
motorized traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of 20 miles per hour while passing a school zone, or while traveling on a
local, county, or state roadway on public school property or upon any public
thoroughfare where children pass going to and from school.
      (4)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets wherein the school zone is located. With regard to the
special speed limit while passing schools, such signs shall give proper due
warning that a school zone is being approached, and shall indicate the school
zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during school days when school
children are present.
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed zone
indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence obtained
thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding, provided the use of
the device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in the
special school speed zone.
      (6)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(6)(b) of this section, a
person who violates this section is guilty of a petty offense. Violations of
this section are punishable with a minimum fine of $150 for the first
violation, a minimum fine of $300 for the second or subsequent violation, and
community service in an amount determined by the court.
         (b)   A person committing a violation of this section is guilty of
aggravated special speed limit while passing schools when he or she drives a
motor vehicle at a speed that is:
            1.   Twenty-six miles per hour or more but less than 35 miles per
hour in excess of the applicable special speed limit established under this
section or a similar provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor; or
            2.   Thirty-five miles per hour or more in excess of the applicable
special speed limit established under this section or a similar provision of a
local ordinance and is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605)
   (B)   Highway construction or maintenance zones.
      (1)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance speed zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit when
workers are present.
      (2)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance speed zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit when
workers are not present.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a construction or maintenance
speed zone indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence
obtained by use of those devices be inadmissible in any prosecution for
speeding, provided the use of the device shall apply only to the enforcement of
the speed limit in the construction or maintenance speed zone.
      (4)   (a)   As used in this section, a CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE SPEED
ZONE is an area in which the Department, toll highway authority, a local
agency, or the city has posted signage advising drivers that a construction or
maintenance speed zone is being approached, or in which the Department,
authority, local agency or the city has posted a lower speed limit with a
highway construction or maintenance speed zone special speed limit sign after
determining that the preexisting established speed limit through a highway
construction or maintenance project is greater than is reasonable or safe with
respect to the conditions expected to exist in the construction or maintenance
speed zone.
         (b)   If it is determined that the preexisting established speed limit
is safe with respect to the conditions expected to exist in the construction or
maintenance speed zone, additional speed limit signs which conform to the
requirements of this division (B)(4) and (5) shall be posted.
      (5)   Highway construction or maintenance speed zone special speed limit
signs shall be of a design approved by the Department. The signs must give
proper due warning that a construction or maintenance speed zone is being
approached and must indicate the maximum speed limit in effect. The signs must
also state the amount of the minimum fine for a violation.
      (6)   (a)   1.   Except as provided under division (B)(6)(a)2. of this
section, a person who violates this section is guilty of a petty offense.
Violations of this section are punishable with a minimum fine of $250 for the
first violation and a minimum fine of $750 for the second or subsequent
violation.
            2.   A person committing a violation of this section is guilty of
aggravated special speed limit while traveling through a highway construction
or maintenance speed zone when he or she drives a motor vehicle at a speed that
is:
               a.   Twenty-six miles per hour or more but less than 35 miles
per hour in excess of the applicable special speed limit established under this
section or a similar provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor; or
               b.   Thirty-five miles per hour or more in excess of the
applicable special speed limit established under this Section or a similar
provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605.1(a) - (d-5))
         (b)   The Transportation Safety Highway Hire-back Fund, which was
created by Public Act 92-619, shall continue to be a special fund in the State
Treasury. Subject to appropriation by the general assembly and approval by the
secretary, the Secretary of Transportation shall use all moneys in the
Transportation Safety Highway Hire-back Fund to hire off-duty Illinois State
Police Officers to monitor construction or maintenance zones.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605.1(f))
§ 71.003 MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE OPERATING SPEED.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or highway
in this village where the minimum allowable speed on that street or highway, as
posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of the vehicle.
Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the manufacturer of
the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of specifications and
operation, or it shall be determined by applicable rule and regulation
promulgated by the Secretary of State.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-611) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.004 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and regular movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation of his or her vehicle or in compliance with law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)) Penalty, see §
70.99
SEAT BELTS REQUIRED
§ 71.010 SEAT BELTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All persons driving motor vehicles shall wear seat belts while the
vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   All passengers in motor vehicles shall wear seat belts while the
vehicle is in motion unless that person is an infant, in which case, the parent
or other person caring for that child shall have the infant duly restrained in
a proper, federally approved child seat while the vehicle is in motion.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined pursuant to the chart set forth
herein below:
 
1st Offense $35
2nd Offense $35
3rd Offense $35
 
(Ord. 2002-O-36, passed 9-3-02; Am. Ord. 2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06)
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 71.020 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The State Department of Transportation and local authorities in
their respective jurisdictions may cause official traffic-control devices to be
placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that
a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles
turning at an intersection, and when such devices are so placed no driver of a
vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and
required by such devices.
   (B)   Two-way left turn lanes. Where a special lane for making left turns by
drivers proceeding in opposite directions has been indicated by official
traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane.
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making
a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.021 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where the
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-802) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.022 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked,
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-803) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.023 WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the highway as required in §
71.020, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, or move right or left upon a roadway
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may
so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, change lanes, otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, move left or right upon a highway, or when
required must be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle within a business or residence district, and the signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
   (D)   The electric turn signal device required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 12-
208 must be used and operated as prescribed in division (B) above to indicate
an intention to turn, change lanes, turn a vehicle from a direct course, move
right or left upon a highway, or start from a parallel parked position. Unless
the conditions of division (B) are met, an electric turn signal device required
in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208 shall not be left in the on position and must
not be flashed on one side only on a parked or disabled vehicle, or flashed as
a courtesy or “do pass” signal to operators of other vehicles approaching from
the rear. However, signal devices may be flashed simultaneously on both sides
of a motor vehicle to indicate the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring unusual care in approaching, overtaking, and passing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-804) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.024 SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to
the requirements provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 12-208.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-805) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.025 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner, and the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn - hand and arm extended horizontally.
   (B)   Right turn - hand and arm extended upward, except that a person
operating a bicycle may extend the right hand and arm horizontally and to the
right side of the bicycle.
   (C)   Stop or decrease of speed - hand and arm extended downward.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-806) Penalty, see §
70.99
OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 71.040 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing those movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic;
      (5)   Whenever there is a single-track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on the pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic, and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the
lanes, or except as permitted under division (A) (2). However, this division
shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making
a left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.041 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least 1/2 of
the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.042 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and special
rules otherwise stated in this chapter:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall the movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit the passing maneuver safely.
   (D)   The operator of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle or individual
proceeding in the same direction on a highway shall leave a safe distance, but
not less than three feet, when passing the bicycle or individual and shall
maintain that distance until safely past the overtaken bicycle or individual.
   (E)   A person driving a motor vehicle shall not, in a reckless manner,
drive the motor vehicle unnecessarily close to, toward or near a bicyclist,
pedestrian, or a person riding a horse or driving an animal-drawn vehicle.
   (F)   Every person convicted of division (E) of this section shall be guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor if the violation does not result in great bodily harm
or permanent disability or disfigurement to another. If the violation results
in great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to another, the
person shall be guilty of a Class 3 felony.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.043 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle;
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than eight
feet. This division does not apply to devices propelled by human power.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. Such movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.044 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   Passing on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter, and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705)
   (B)   Conditions where passing on the left is prohibited.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under
the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction.
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
         (c)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
      (2)   The limitations in division (B)(1) above do not apply upon a one-
way roadway, nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction, nor to the driver of
a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road, or driveway when
the movements can be made with safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.045 MEETING OR OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped on a highway,
roadway, private road, parking lot, school property, or at any other location,
including, without limitation, a location that is not a highway or roadway for
the purpose of receiving or discharging pupils on a highway, on a roadway on
school property, or upon a private road within an area that is covered by a
contract or agreement executed pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-209.1. The
stop is required before reaching the school bus when there is in operation on
the school bus the visual signals as specified in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-
803 and 12-805. The driver of the vehicle shall not proceed until the school
bus resumes motion or the driver of the vehicle is signaled by the school bus
driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated.
   (B)   The stop signal arm required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 12-803 shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is
placed in motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other
time.
   (C)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 12-805 shall be actuated after
the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time
except as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 12-805 shall be actuated
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the school bus
before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils within an
urban area, and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by the school
bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall remain actuated until
the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be actuated at any
other time.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four or more lanes which
permits at least two lanes of traffic to travel in opposite directions need not
stop the vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is stopped in the opposing
roadway; and need not stop the vehicle when driving upon a controlled access
highway when passing a school bus traveling in either direction that is stopped
in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled
access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to cross.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1414(a) - (e)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.046 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of the island.
   (C)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or
section except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing section,
or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (D)    The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved non-curbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.047 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to determine those portions of any
highway within the village where overtaking and passing or driving on the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and may by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of the zones, and when
signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant
person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) no driver may at any time drive on the left side of
the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any pavement
striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (C)   This section does not apply under the conditions described in §
71.040 (A) (2), nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an
alley, private road, or driveway. The pavement striping designed to mark the
no-passing zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose of
completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the
driver's direction of travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.048 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for two-
way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
On multi-lane controlled access highways with three of more lanes in one
direction or on any multi-laned highway with two or more lanes in one
direction, the State Department of Transportation may designate lanes of
traffic to be used by different types of motor vehicles. Drivers must obey lane
designation signing except when it is necessary to use a different lane to make
a turning maneuver.
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
   (E)   A person is not in violation of this section if he or she is complying
with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 §§ 11-907, 11-907.5, or 11-908.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-709) Penalty, see §
70.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.060 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different roadways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left must
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right. This rule may be modified
at through highways or streets and where otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions of this traffic code.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.061 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed
as soon as a safe interval occurs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902) Penalty, see §
70.99  
§ 71.062 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection, or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of- way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of- way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.063 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway, or which
is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, of
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield right-of-way.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.064 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in §
71.060, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging
traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to
adjust his vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with
another vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.065 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on the highway to be entered.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.066 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this code or a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal:
      (1)   The driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and shall,
if necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop and
remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer; and
      (2)   The operator of every streetcar shall immediately stop such car
clear of any intersection and keep it in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
   (C)   (1)   Upon approaching a stationary authorized emergency vehicle or
emergency scene, when the stationary authorized emergency vehicle is giving a
signal by displaying alternately flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and
blue lights or amber or yellow warning lights, a person who drives an
approaching vehicle shall:
         (a)   Proceeding with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a
lane change into a lane not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency
vehicle, if possible with due regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a
highway having at least four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in
the same direction as the approaching vehicle and reduce the speed of the
vehicle to a speed that is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway to avoid a collision and leaving a safe
distance until safely past the stationary emergency vehicle; or
         (b)   If changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe, proceeding with
due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle to a speed that is reasonable and
proper with regard to traffic conditions and the use of the highway to avoid a
collision, maintaining a safe speed for road conditions and leaving a safe
distance until safely past the stationary emergency vehicles.
      (2)   The visual signal specified under this division (C) given by a
stationary authorized emergency vehicle is an indication to drivers of
approaching vehicles that a hazardous condition is present when circumstances
are not immediately clear. Drivers of vehicles approaching a stationary
authorized emergency vehicle in any lane shall heed the warning of the signal,
reduce the speed of the vehicle, proceed with due caution, maintain a safe
speed for road conditions, be prepared to stop, and leave a safe distance until
safely passed the stationary emergency vehicle.
      (3)   As used in this division (C), AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE includes
any vehicle authorized by law to be equipped with oscillating, rotating, or
flashing lights under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215, while the owner or
operator of the vehicle is engaged in his or her official duties. As used in
this division (C), EMERGENCY SCENE means a location where a stationary
authorized emergency vehicle as defined by herein is present and has activated
its oscillating, rotating, or flashing lights.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907(a) - (c)) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for violation of division (C) of this section, see ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-907(d) through (h)
§ 71.067 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising the procession have their headlights and hazard lights
lighted, subject to the following conditions and exceptions:
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal;
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer;
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic-control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with the signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in the procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do so by
a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights or hazard lights or both
lighted for the purpose of securing the right-of-way granted by this section to
funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   (E)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when such vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may
utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers or flashing hazard
warning signal flashers to identify the individual vehicles in such a
procession.
   (F)   In the absence of law enforcement traffic control assistance for a
funeral procession, a funeral director or his or her designee may direct
traffic during a funeral procession.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.080 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN OR RAILROAD TRACK
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing where the driver is not always required to stop, the person must
exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a
highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in
this section, the driver shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not proceed until he can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad
track equipment;
         (c)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a
highway crossing emits a warning signal and the train or railroad track
equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
         (d)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing;
         (e)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
      (2)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing where the driver is not always required to stop but must slow down,
the person must exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad
track across a highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the
circumstances stated in this section, the driver shall slow down within 50 feet
but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not
proceed until he or she checks that the tracks are clear of an approaching
train or railroad track equipment.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   When stop signs are erected at railroad grade crossings, the driver of
any vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of the railroad, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
   (D)   At any railroad grade crossing provided with railroad crossbuck signs,
without automatic, electric, or mechanical signal devices, crossing gates, or a
human flagman giving a signal of the approach or passage of a train or railroad
track equipment, the driver of a vehicle shall in obedience to the railroad
crossbuck sign, yield the right-of-way and slow down to a speed reasonable for
the existing conditions and shall stop, if required for safety, at a clearly
marked stopped line, or if no stop line, within 50 feet but not less than 15
feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or
she can do so safety. If a driver is involved in a collision at a railroad
crossing or interferes with the movement of a train or railroad track equipment
after driving past the railroad crossbuck sign, the collision or interference
is prima facie evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way. No
person shall, while driving a commercial vehicle, fail to negotiate a railroad
highway grade railroad crossing because of sufficient undercarriage clearance.
   (E)   Authorities of municipal corporations regulating operators of vehicles
that fail to obey signals indicating the presence, approach, passage, or
departure of a train or railroad track equipment shall impose fines as
established in §
70.99.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.081 CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop that vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail, and while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment, and shall not
proceed until that movement can be made with safety:
      (1)   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school buses
in ILCS 625, Act 5, §§ 12-801, 12-803, and 12-804. The driver of the bus, in
addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this division
(A), must also (1) turn off all noise producing accessories, including heater
blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary fans, and radios, and (2) open the service
door and driver’s window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before
crossing a railroad track or tracks at grade, stop such vehicle within 50 feet
but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail and, while so stopped, shall
listen and look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment and
shall not proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
         (a)   A commercial motor vehicle, as defined in ILCS 625, Act 5, § 6-
500, carrying passengers for hire;
         (b)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school
buses in ILCS 625, Act 5, §§ 12-801, 12-803, and 12-805 and is designed to
transport 16 or more persons, including the driver. The driver of the bus, in
addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this division
(B), must also (i) turn off all noise producing accessories, including heater
blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary fans, and radios, and (ii) open the service
door and driver's window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks;
         (c)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to
be placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo hazardous material as
defined in the Illinois Hazardous Materials Transportation Act.
      (2)   After stopping as required in this section, the driver shall
proceed only in a gear not requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and
the driver shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (C)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or flagperson;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which, under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping,
except that division (A) of this section shall apply to any school bus;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      (4)   At any abandoned industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.082 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD, OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road, or
driveway within an urban area shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance,
road, or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.083 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or railroad grade crossing to accommodate
the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles,
pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
   (B)   No driver shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed. Any person found in violation of division
(B) of this section shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of
community service.
   (C)   No driver operating a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in ILCS
625, Act 5, § 6-500, shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
   (D)   The Secretary of State shall suspend for a period of one month the
driving privileges of any person convicted of a violation of division (B) of
this section; the Secretary shall suspend for a period of three months the
driving privileges of any person convicted of a second or subsequent violation
of division (B) of this section if the second or subsequent violation occurs
within five years of a prior conviction for the same offense. In addition to
the suspensions authorized by this section, any person convicted of violating
division (B) of this section shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 or 50
hours of community service. Any person given a disposition of court supervision
for violating subdivision (B) of this section shall also be subject to a
mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community service. Upon a second or
subsequent violation, in addition to the suspensions authorized by this
section, the person shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 and 50 hours
community service. The Secretary may also grant, for the duration of any
suspension issued under this division, a restricted driving permit granting the
privilege of driving a motor vehicle between the driver’s residence and place
of employment or within other proper limits that the Secretary of State shall
find necessary to avoid any undue hardship. A restricted driving permit issued
hereunder shall be subject to cancellation, revocation and suspension by the
Secretary of State in like manner and for like cause as a driver’s license may
be cancelled, revoked or suspended; except that a conviction upon one or more
offenses against laws or ordinances regulating the movement of traffic shall be
deemed sufficient cause for the revocation, suspension, or cancellation of the
restricted driving permit. The Secretary of State may, as a condition to the
issuance of a restricted driving permit, require the applicant to participate
in a designated driver remedial or rehabilitative program. Any conviction for a
violation of this division shall be included as an offense for the purposes of
determining suspension action under any other provision of this code, provided
however, that the penalties provided under this division shall be imposed
unless those penalties imposed under other applicable provisions are greater.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1425) Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.095 BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled- access highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1402) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.096 FOLLOWING VEHICLE TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and conditions of the street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-710) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.097 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in a position as to
interfere with the driver's or motorman's view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (C)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver's view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1406) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.098 OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1407) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.099 COASTING.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the gears or transmission of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a truck or bus when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1410) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.100 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or stop the vehicle within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1411)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street, private road, or driveway to be used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1412) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.101 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by human
power, to any electric personal assistive mobility device, nor to any motorized
wheelchair. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to limit or preempt the
authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of local government from
regulating or prohibiting the use of electric personal assistive mobility
devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1412.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:  
Electric personal assistive mobility devices, see §
74.14
§ 71.102 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS, OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play
streets when authorized by the traffic authority.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.103 PUTTING GLASS OR OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway any bottle, glass,
nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any litter (as defined in Section 3 of the Litter
Control Act).
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) of this section upon any highway
shall immediately remove such material or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris, except any hazardous substance as defined in
Section 3.215 of the Environmental Protection Act, hazardous waste as defined
in Section 3.220 of the Environmental Protection Act, and potentially
infectious medical waste as defined in Section 3.360 of the Environmental
Protection Act dropped upon the highway from the vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1413) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.104 OBSTRUCTING PERSON IN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct, or delay, or
willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within this
village, or offer for barter or sale merchandise on the highway so as to
interfere with the effective movement of traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1416) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.105 FARM TRACTOR OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway in this village
unless the tractor is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection
with farming operations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the use of a farm tractor as an
implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to
include use of the tractor in connection with the transportation of
agricultural products and of farm machinery, equipment, and supplies, as well
as the transportation of tractors in connection with the obtaining of repairs
thereto, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than 8,000 pounds for
use as return transportation after the tractor is left at the place of work or
repair.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1418) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.106 DRIVING ON CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-711) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARADES
§ 71.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the village, or “CRUISING” as defined above.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
§ 71.121 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized village official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.122 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Procedure. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the Chief of Police or other authorized village official on
forms provided by such officer.
   (B)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than 5 days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (C)   Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10) The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area or areas;
      (11) The interval of space to be maintained between units of the parade;
      (12) If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13) Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the Board of Trustees as set
forth in Title XVII of this code.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.123 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official shall issue a
permit when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the village to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the village;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
village other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.124 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.125 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the Board of Trustees. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The Board of Trustees shall act on the appeal within 30 days
after its receipt.
§ 71.126 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.127 NOTICE TO VILLAGE AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The President;
   (B)   The Fire Chief.
§ 71.128 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.129 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.130 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police or other authorized
village official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to
prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public
thoroughfare or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade.
Signs shall be posted to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall
be liable for parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs
have been posted in accordance with this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.131 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The village shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.999 ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. Pursuant to the authority and in accordance with the
provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-204 and all other applicable police
powers and authority, the village hereby adopts in its entirety the Illinois
Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq., as it currently exists,
and as it may hereafter be amended, and the same are adopted as ordinance
provisions of the village. Any ticket or complaint charging a violation of the
provisions of the Rules of the Road incorporated herein may note that the
offense is being charged as a violation of municipal law, but may also describe
the specific offense using the statutory section number from the Vehicle Code.
   (B)   Penalty. Any violation of the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code
shall hereafter be considered a violation of this chapter and each such
violation shall subject the violator thereof to the penalty provisions provided
in the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 2002-O-1, passed 1-15-02)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended motor vehicles
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
72.10   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.11   Stopping, standing, or parking outside business or residence district
   
72.12   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities
   
72.13   All-night parking
   
72.14   Fire Department parking spaces
   
72.15   Snow removal
Violations
   
72.25   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
72.26   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
 
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by ordinance, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the
curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic movement,
with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close
as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder, or with its left-
hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand curb or as close as practicable
to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   The village may permit angle parking on any roadway, except that angle
parking shall not be permitted on any federal-aid or state highway unless the
State Department of Transportation has
determined that the roadway is of sufficient width to permit angle parking
without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
   (D)   The State Department of Transportation with respect to highways under
its jurisdiction may place signs prohibiting, limiting or restricting the
stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway where in its opinion
such stopping, standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the highway or
where the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere
with the free movement of traffic thereon. No person shall stop, stand, or park
any vehicle in violation of the restrictions indicated by such devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1304) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except for a law enforcement officer or an operator of an unauthorized
emergency vehicle performing his or her official duties, no person driving or
in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without
stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition,
effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. An
unattended motor vehicle shall not include an unattended locked motor vehicle
with the engine running after being started by a remote starter system.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1401) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
§ 72.10 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway, or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers;
         (l)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic- control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign-posted);
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
         (c)   On any lawn, grass, dirt or other area in any residential
district which has not been improved and maintained as required by §§
154.178 and
154.179, unless the vehicle has RV license plates and:
            1.   Unless the area is located behind an imaginary line drawn
parallel with the street and even with the rear of the residence; and
            2.   In the case of corner properties only, the area is also
located behind an imaginary line drawn parallel with the side street and even
with the closest corner of the house to that side street.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(Am. Ord. 2002-O-47, passed 11-19-02) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1303
§ 72.11 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park,
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave the vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the highway.
   (B)   The village, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for
the maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway where
in its opinion stopping, standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the
highway, or where stopping, standing, or parking vehicles would unduly
interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any regulations adopted by
the village regarding the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles upon any
specific street, streets, or highways become effective at the time of the
erection of appropriate signs indicating the regulations. Such regulations
shall be set forth in Title XVII of this code.
   (C)   This section and §
72.10 and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304 shall not apply to the driver of any
vehicle which is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in such
position.
   (D)   Any second division vehicle used exclusively for the collection of
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material may stop or stand on the road in a
business, rural, or residential district for the sole purpose of collecting
garbage, refuse, or recyclable material. The vehicle, in addition to having its
hazard lights lighted at all times that it is engaged in stopping or standing,
shall also use its amber oscillating, rotating, or flashing light or lights as
authorized under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215(b), if so equipped.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
properly displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with
disabilities, as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2, or to
a veteran with a disability pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609, as
evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a person with disabilities or a
veteran with a disability, in any parking place, including any private or
public off-street parking facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an
official sign as designated under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301, for motor
vehicles displaying such registration plates. It shall be prohibited to park
any motor vehicle in a designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place
specifically reserved for persons with disabilities, by the posting of an
official sign as designed under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301, for motor
vehicles displaying such registration plates. When using the parking privileges
for persons with disabilities, the parking decal or device must be displayed
properly in the vehicle where it is clearly visible to law enforcement
personnel, either hanging from the rearview mirror or placed on the dashboard
of the vehicle in clear view. Disability license plates and parking decals and
devices are not transferable from person to person. Proper usage of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device requires the authorized
holder to be present and enter or exit the vehicle at the time the parking
privileges are being used. It is a violation of this section to park in a space
reserved for a person with disabilities, if the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device does not enter or exit the
vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being used. Any motor vehicle
properly displaying a disability license plate or a parking decal or device
containing the international symbol of access issued to persons with
disabilities by any local authority, state, district, territory or foreign
county shall be recognized by state and local authorities as a valid license
plate or device and receive the same parking privileges as residents of this
village.
      (2)   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates
or parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability under
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2 or to a veteran with a
disability under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609 is in violation of this section
if:
         (a)   The person using the disability license plate or parking decal
or device is not the authorized holder of the disability license plate or
parking decal or device or is not transporting the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device to or from the parking
location; and
         (b)   The person uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decals or devices under this code.
      (3)   A driver of a vehicle displaying disability license plates or a
parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability under
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1, 11-1301.2 or to a veteran with a
disability under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609 is in violation of this section
if:
         (a)   The person to whom the disability license plate or parking decal
or device was issued is deceased; and
         (b)   The driver uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through a disability license plat or
parking decal or device under this chapter.
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section
shall be fined as set forth in §
72.99 in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage
of any motor vehicle authorized under this section. The village shall display
signs indicating the fine imposed, and if the amount of the fine is
subsequently changed, the village shall change the sign to indicate the current
amount of the fine. It shall not be a defense to a charge under this section
that the sign posted pursuant to this section does not comply with the
technical requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301 or local ordinance if a
reasonable person would be made aware by the sign or notice on or near the
parking place that the place is reserved for a person with disabilities.
   (D)   As used in this section, AUTHORIZED HOLDER means an individual issued
a person with disabilities license plate under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616 or
an individual issued a person with disabilities parking decal or device under
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2 or an individual issued a license plate for
veterans with disabilities under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(a) - (e)) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 ALL-NIGHT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle and leave the same unattended
in or along the sides of any street or parkway in the village at any time from
November 1 through April 1 of each year between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m. Any vehicle so parked and left unattended between said hours shall be
towed away by the Police Department, and any towing charges thus incurred shall
be charged to and paid by the owner of such vehicle.
('79 Code, § 1804(1)) (Ord. 1983-O-9, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 FIRE DEPARTMENT PARKING SPACES.
   At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicles to stand in any of
the parking spaces in the parking lots adjoining the fire station that are
posted "Fire Department Parking Only."
('79 Code, § 1804(5)) (Ord. 1979-O-25, passed 6-19-79; Am. Ord. 1980-O-4,
passed 4-15-80; Am. Ord. 2000-O-7, passed 6-6-00) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 SNOW REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street in the village
at any time within 12 hours after a snowfall of two inches or more has
occurred.
('79 Code, § 1804(4)) Penalty, see §
72.99
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.25 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle, or
require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same,
to a position off the roadway.
   (B)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to a
place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing upon any
highway, bridge, causeway, or in a tunnel, or in a position or under
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner, or
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal, or
      (3)   When the person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay, or
      (4)   When the registration of the vehicle has been suspended, canceled,
or revoked.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302)
§ 72.26 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases a vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter or a parking regulation of the city involving such vehicle, shall
upon request provide such police officers as have authority of the offense, and
the court having jurisdiction thereof, with a written statement of the name and
address of the lessee at the time of such offense and the identifying number
upon the registration plates or digital registration plates and registration
sticker or stickers or digital registration sticker or stickers of such
vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter or Chapter 70 for which
no specific penalty is otherwise provided and who does not prepay his parking
citation as set forth in division (C) below, shall be fined not more than $500
for each offense. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
('79 Code, § 1813(c)) (Ord. 1985-O-1, passed 2-5-85; Am. Ord. 1999-O-2, passed
1-19-99)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates the following series of code sections shall be
fined pursuant to the chart set forth hereinbelow:
Offense Section Number     1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
§                         $25         $25         $25
72.02
§                         $25         $25         $25
72.01
§                         $250        $250        $250
72.12(A)(1)
72.13                      $25         $25         $50
§                         $100        $250        $500
72.14
§                         $25         $50         $50
72.15
Chapter 79, Schedule I (A) $25         $25         $25
Chapter 79, Schedule I (B) $25         $25         $25
Chapter 79, Schedule I (C) $25         $25         $25
 
      (2)   Whoever violates §
72.12(A)(2) shall be fined $500 or any higher amount set by the state
legislature for such violations and may have his or her driving privileges
suspended or revoked by the Secretary of State for a period of time determined
by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State may also suspend or revoke
the disability license plates or parking decal or device for a period of time
determined by the Secretary of State. Two hundred and fifty dollars of the $500
fine imposed on any person who is found guilty of or pleads guilty to violating
this section, including any person placed on court supervision for violating
this section, shall be distributed to the law enforcement agency that issued
the citation or made the arrest. If more than one law enforcement agency is
responsible for issuing the citation or making the arrest, the $250 shall be
shared equally.
   (C)   Any person violating this chapter (except for §
72.12(A)(2)) or Chapter 79 may pay a fine and costs in accordance with the
schedule set forth in §
72.99(B)(1) by mailing the amount thereof by check, money order, or currency
to, or by leaving the amount thereof with the Police Department of the village.
Such remittance must be accompanied by a signed plea of guilty and waiver of
hearing. The fines and costs set in the charts set forth in §
72.99(B)(1) shall be doubled if not paid within ten days of issuance of any
ticket or citation. In addition to the foregoing provisions of fines:
      (1)   Police officers, after making not of the license number of the
vehicle and the name of the offender (where possible) may issue a traffic
violation ticket notifying the offender to appear in court at a time designated
for hearing such cases. Such officer may sign a complaint for issuance of a
warrant of the offender does not appear at the time and place so notified. In
either such event, the court may tax such costs as are provided for by law in
such instances.
      (2)   Police officers are empowered to cause vehicles parked in violation
of this chapter to be towed away and impounded. Fees charged for the towing
service shall be paid by the owner of the vehicle before the impounded vehicle
is released.
      (3)   In the event any person issued a ticket subject to the doubling
provided for in division (C)(1) hereinabove shall timely file a request for a
hearing in the village’s adjudication court system, such filing shall stay the
running of the ten day period. In the event the adjudication hearing officer
finds that the running of the ten day period. In the event the adjudication
hearing officer finds that a violation occurred as alleged in the ticket, the
ten day period shall resume running immediately, provided that the filing of
any appeal to the circuit court shall similarly stay the running of th period
until final adjudication on the merits of the ticket.
('79 Code, § 1804(6)) (Ord. 1980-O-1, passed 2-19-80; Am. Ord. 1999-O-1, passed
1-19-99; Am. Ord. 2001-O-34, passed 12-18-01; Am. Ord. 2009-O-2, passed 2-17-
09; Am. Ord. 2009-O-18, passed 9-2-09)
   (D)   A violation of any part of §
72.10(A)(1)(h) shall result in a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of
community service.
(Am. Ord. 2006-O-19, passed 10-7-06; Am. Ord. 2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06; Am.
Ord. 2015-O-25, passed 11-3-15)
Statutory Reference:
   For provisions concerning similar state law, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-
1301.3(c-1) and ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1303.
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND SNOWMOBILES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.02   Riding on bicycles
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.04   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.05   Carrying articles
   
73.06   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
   
73.07   Lamps on mopeds
   
73.08   Riding on mopeds
Motorcycles
   
73.20   Riding on motorcycles
   
73.21   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles
   
73.22   Required equipment on motorcycles
   
73.23   Operating motorcycle on one wheel
Snowmobiles
   
73.30   Definitions
   
73.31   Muffler and noise requirements
   
73.32   Age requirements
   
73.33   Hours of permitted operation
   
73.34   Restricted areas
   
73.35   Littering
   
73.36   Towing
   
73.37   Reckless operation
   
73.38   Driving while under the influence
   
73.39   Racing
   
73.40   Use on trails
   
73.41   Registration; insurance; fees
   
73.42   State Snowmobile Code adopted
Boating
   
73.50   State Boating Safety Code adopted
   
73.90   Enforcement of chapter
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway shall be granted all of the
rights, including, but not limited to, rights under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, Art.
11, and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this traffic
code, and those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature can have
no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his person in a back pack or sling.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable to the right-hand
curb or edge of the roadway except under the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedalcycle,
or vehicle proceeding in the same direction; or
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedalcycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards, or substandard
width lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge.
For purposes of this division (3), a SUBSTANDARD WIDTH LANE means a lane that
is too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle and a vehicle to travel
safely side by side within the lane; or
      (4)   When approaching a place where a right turn is authorized.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedalcycle upon a one-way
highway with two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand
curb or edge of the roadway as practicable.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505)
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedalcycles upon a roadway shall
not ride more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for their exclusive use. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a
single lane subject to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above. (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the
bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the
handlebars at all times.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the department which shall be visible from all distances from 100 feet to
600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps
on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle, any siren. This division does not apply to a bicycle that is a police
vehicle or fire department vehicle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold the bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the State Department of Transportation, on each pedal, visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. The reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet, and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle. The requirements of this
division may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least 3/16 inch
wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible the
continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims of the bicycle, and
which reflective materials may be of the same color on both the front and rear
tire or rim. The reflectors shall conform to specifications prescribed by the
State Department of Transportation.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 LAMPS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by
the State Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when in front of lawful, low-
powered beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 RIDING ON MOPEDS.
   (A)   The operator of a moped shall ride only astride the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit two persons to ride thereon
at the same time, unless the moped is designed to carry two persons. Any moped
designed for two persons must be equipped with a passenger seat and footrests
for use of a passenger.
   (B)   Neither the operator nor any passenger on a moped shall be required to
wear any special goggles, shield, helmet, or glasses.
   (C)   The provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.07 shall be applicable to the operation of mopeds, except for those
provisions which by their nature can have no application to mopeds.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1) Penalty, see §
73.99
MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.20 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebar grips higher
than the height of the head of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
   (D)   The operator of any motorcycle shall keep at least one hand on a
handlebar grip at all times the motorcycle is in motion.
   (E)   The operator of a motorcycle may not transport a passenger unless the
passenger is capable of resting a foot on the footrest while the motorcycle is
in motion.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   The operator and every passenger of a motorcycle shall be protected by
glasses, goggles, or a transparent shield. This equipment shall meet the
requirements based upon those set forth in Vehicle Equipment Safety Commission
Regulation VESC-8, "Minimum Requirements for Motorcyclists' Eye Protection."
   (B)   For purposes of this section, glasses, goggles, and transparent
shields are defined as follows:
      GLASSES. Ordinary eye pieces such as spectacles or sunglasses worn before
the eye, made of shatter-resistant material. Shatter-resistant material, as
used in this section, means material so manufactured, fabricated, or created
that it substantially prevents shattering or flying when struck or broken.
      GOGGLES. A device worn before the eyes, the predominant function of which
is protecting the eyes without obstructing peripheral vision. Goggles shall
provide protection from the front and sides, and may or may not form a complete
seal with the face.
      TRANSPARENT SHIELD. A windshield attached to the front of a motorcycle
that extends above the eyes when an operator is seated in the normal, upright
riding position, made of shatter-resistant material, or a shatter-resistant
protective face shield that covers the wearer's eyes and face at least to a
point approximately to the tip of the nose.
   (C)   Contact lenses are not acceptable eye protection devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed
cab, shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE ON ONE WHEEL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorcycle on one wheel.
   (B)   A person commits aggravated operating a motorcycle on one wheel when
he or she violates division (A) above while committing a violation of §
71.001.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law regarding operation of motor driven
cycles or mopeds, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.2
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE. To control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual control of a snowmobile.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice in a
natural terrain powered by a drive belt and steered by skis or runners or
similar devices.
('79 Code, § 1810(1))
§ 73.31 MUFFLER AND NOISE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to use a snowmobile propelled by a motor or machine
unless same is provided with a serviceable muffler capable of adequately
muffling the sounds of exhaust of the engine. The phrase "adequately muffling"
shall mean that the motor exhaust at all times be so muffled or suppressed as
not to create excessive or unusual noise. No other excessive or unusual noise
created through operation of said devices is allowed.
('79 Code, § 1810(2)) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   State registration requirements, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 3-2 through 3-
11
   Equipment requirements, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 4-1 et seq.
§ 73.32 AGE REQUIREMENTS.
   An operator of a snowmobile must be at least 14 years of age and carry
either a valid drivers license or a certificate of instruction issued by the
Illinois Department of Conservation.
('79 Code, § 1810(2)) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.33 HOURS OF PERMITTED OPERATION.
   The operation of snowmobiles shall only be permitted in the village during
the following hours and days:
Day       Time
Monday    8:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Tuesday   8:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Wednesday 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Thursday  8:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Friday    8:00 a.m. - midnight
Saturday  8:00 a.m. - midnight
Sunday    8:00 a.m. - midnight
 
('79 Code, § 1810(2)) (Ord. 1999-O-5, passed 1-19-99) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.34 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any snowmobile on any
village street, roadway, alley, right-of-way or highway, provided, however,
that it shall not be unlawful to cross a village street, roadway, alley, right-
of-way or highway in a line perpendicular thereto, for the sole purpose of
obtaining access to an area which is available for use by snowmobiles across
that street, roadway, alley or highway.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile within 75 feet of
areas cleared for skating, tobogganing, or other winter activities.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile on private property of
another without the express written permission to do so by the owner or tenant
of said property.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile on public school
grounds, park property, play grounds and recreational areas without express
written provision or permission to do so by the proper public authority or
individual, except that snowmobiles may be operated without written permission
in the 38-acre park on the northwest corner of 9th Street and Russell Avenue
legally described as follows:
         (a)   Parcel 1: That part of Lot 9 of Winthrop Harbor in the South
Half of the North East Quarter of Section 9, Township 46 North, Range 12, East
of the 3rd P.M., lying west of Johnston's Winthrop Park Subdivision recorded as
Document 782151, and West of Westfield Park, a Subdivision recorded as Document
1102605 (except the East 672.0 feet thereof), in Lake County, Illinois.
         (b)   Parcel 2: The East 465.5 feet of the South Half of Lot 12 in the
North West Quarter of Section 9, Township 46 North, Range 12, East of the 3rd
P.M., in Lake County, Illinois.
      (4)   Snowmobiles must be operated on the above-described park property
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and without damage to
existing park property. The Recreation Director of this village is specifically
empowered to post “No Snowmobiling” signs upon this park, which posting shall
revoke the privilege of all persons to operate any snowmobile upon the park
property, rendering such use unlawful.
('79 Code, § 1810(2)) (Ord. 1998-O-1, passed 1-6-98) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.35 LITTERING.
   No person shall be allowed to cast, throw, or deposit bottles, glass, caps,
garbage, refuse, or debris in the village while operating or riding as a
passenger on a snowmobile.
('79 Code, § 1810(2)) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.36 TOWING.
   Stiff bar towing of snowmobile trailers shall be permitted but no towing of
skiers, skaters, toboggans, or other types of towing from snowmobiles shall be
allowed.
('79 Code, § 1810(2)) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.37 RECKLESS OPERATION.
   No person shall operate any snowmobile in a careless, willful, heedless,
reckless, or wanton manner so as to endanger, harass, or annoy persons or
endanger property. It shall be deemed reckless operation per se for any person
to operate any snowmobile on the private property of another without having
first obtained the express written permission to do so from the landowner or
tenant in possession thereof.
('79 Code, § 1810(2)) (Ord. 1998-O-1, passed 1-6-98) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.38 DRIVING WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   No persons shall operate any snowmobile or be in actual physical control of
any snowmobile who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic
drug.
('79 Code, § 1810(2)) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.39 RACING.
   There shall be no sanctioned racing of snowmobiles within the village except
with the express authority of the village Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 1810(2)) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.40 USE ON TRAILS.
   Snowmobile trails within the village shall be used for access to and from
adjacent trails and there shall be no stopping or congregating upon said
trails.
('79 Code, § 1810(4)) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.41 REGISTRATION; INSURANCE; FEES.
   (A)   All residents with snowmobiles shall be required to be registered with
the Village Clerk and shall have affixed to said snowmobile on each side of
cowling the current registration sticker.
   (B)   In order to be eligible for a registration sticker, all operators must
have at least $50,000 in liability and property damage insurance.
   (C)   The fee for a three-year sticker shall be $15 and must be purchased by
January 1 of each subsequent three-year period thereafter.
('79 Code, § 1810(5)) (Ord. 1979-O-18, passed 5-15-79; Am. Ord. 1994-O-3,
passed 3-15-94) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.42 STATE SNOWMOBILE CODE ADOPTED.
   Pursuant all applicable police powers and authority, the village hereby
adopts in their entirety the sections of the State of Illinois Vehicle Code
relating to operation, registration and safety relative to snowmobiles as set
forth ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, § 1-1 et seq. (Article I), ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, §§
2-1 et seq. (Article II), ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 3-1 et seq. (Article III),
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 4-1 et seq. (Article IV), and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, §§
5-1 et seq. (Article V) as they currently exist, and as they may hereafter be
amended, and the same are adopted as ordinance provisions of the village. Any
ticket or complaint charging a violation of this chapter and the adopted
provisions incorporated herein may note that the offense is being charged as a
violation of municipal law, but may also describe the specific offense using
the statutory section number from the state statutes.
('79 Code, § 1810(6)) (Am. Ord. 2002-O-13, passed 4-2-02)
BOATING
§ 73.50 STATE BOATING SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   Pursuant all applicable police powers and authority, the village hereby
adopts in their entirety the sections of the State of Illinois Vehicle Code
relating to operation, registration and safety relative to boats and other
watercraft as set forth in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 45, § 4-1 et seq. (Article IV),
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 45, §§ 5-1 et seq. (Article V) as they currently exist, and
as they may hereafter be amended, and the same are adopted as ordinance
provisions of the village. Any ticket or complaint charging a violation of this
chapter and the adopted provisions incorporated herein may note that the
offense is being charged as a violation of municipal law, but may also describe
the specific offense using the statutory section number from the state
statutes.
(Ord. 2002-O-13, passed 4-2-02)
§ 73.90 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   The Police Department or any special police, including any snow safety
patrol, bicycle safety patrol or water safety patrol authorized by the village
shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have full and complete jurisdiction for
the purpose of enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-O-13, passed 4-2-02)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any section of this chapter for which another
penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be subject to the following
schedule of minimum fines:
 
Violation            Fine
First                $100
Second               200
Third and subsequent 300
 
   (B)   Whoever violates the following series of code sections shall be fined
pursuant to the chart set forth herein below:
 
Offense Section Number 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
§                     $25         $25         $25
73.06
§                     $25         $50         $50
73.32
§                     $25         $50         $50
73.33
§                     $100        $200        $300
73.34
§                     $25         $50         $50
73.35
§                     $25         $25         $25
73.36
 
   (C)   In addition to the fines set forth hereinabove, any person who shall
be convicted of violating any part of §§
73.31 through
73.42 a second time in any one 12-month period shall be prohibited from
operating any snowmobile in the village for a period of one calendar year next
following the second conviction.
   (D)   Any person found to have violated division (C) of this section shall,
in addition to all other penalties, be fined $500.
('79 Code, § 1810(8)) (Ord. 1998-O-1, passed 1-6-98; Am. Ord. 1999-O-5, passed
1-19-99; Am. Ord. 2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic control devices and traffic regulations
   
74.02   Pedestrians' right-of-way at crosswalks
   
74.03   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   
74.04   Drivers to avoid colliding with pedestrians
   
74.05   Pedestrian with disabilities; right-of-way
   
74.06   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
74.07   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
74.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
   
74.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks
   
74.10   Pedestrians yield to authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.11   Pedestrians under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
74.12   Bridge and railroad signals
   
74.13   Motorized wheelchairs
   
74.14   Electric personal assistive mobility devices
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in §§
70.31 and
70.32 of this traffic code; but at all other places, pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001)
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of
the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety,
and walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) shall not apply under the condition stated in §
74.03 (B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in §
71.062.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic- control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
   (E)   Pedestrians with disabilities may cross a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk where the
intersection is physically inaccessible to them but they shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO AVOID COLLIDING WITH PEDESTRIANS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated,
or intoxicated person.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 PEDESTRIAN WITH DISABILITIES; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian with
clearly visible disabilities.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
Electric personal assistive mobility devices, see §
74.14
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle, unless expressly permitted by
village ordinance. The village in which the solicitation takes place shall
determine by ordinance where and when solicitations may take place based on the
safety of the solicitors and the safety of motorists. The decision shall also
take into account the orderly flow of traffic and may not allow interference
with the operation of official traffic control devices. The soliciting agency
shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the State Attorney General as a charitable
organization as provided by the Solicitation for Charity Act.
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fundraising activity.
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (D)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (E), where a sidewalk is provided and
its use is practicable, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (E), where a sidewalk is not available,
any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder,
as far as practicable from the edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E), where neither a sidewalk nor a
shoulder is available, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall
walk as near as practicable to an outside edge of a roadway, and, if on a two-
way roadway, shall walk only on the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Upon highways where the maximum posted speed limit is 45 miles per
hour or less, and during the period from sunrise to sunset, a pedestrian who is
18 years of age or older and wearing in-line speed skates may travel upon the
roadway as near as practicable to an outside edge of the roadway. Pedestrians
wearing in-line speed skates upon a roadway may not impede or obstruct other
vehicular traffic. Pedestrians wearing in-line speed skates shall be subject to
all other rights and duties under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1001 et seq.
Nothing in this code shall be construed to prevent a pedestrian wearing in-line
speed skates from using a lane designated for bicycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007)
   (F)   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay,
or willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any street or roadway
within the village.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416)
   (G)   No person shall stand or loiter in any street or roadway within the
village other than in a safety zone, if the act interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic.
(Ord. 2003-O-33, passed 12-2-03) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrians on a
sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 PEDESTRIANS YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
an audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5 § 12-601, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the
authorized emergency vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway, except on a
sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.12 BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall enter, remain upon, or traverse over a railroad
grade crossing or pedestrian walkway crossing a railroad track when an audible
bell or clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device is operational
giving warning of the approach of a railroad train or railroad track equipment.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.13 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway
shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1)
§ 74.14 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   Operation on a sidewalk or roadway. Every person operating an electric
personal assistive mobility device upon a sidewalk or roadway has all the
rights and is subject to all the duties applicable to a pedestrian. Nothing in
this section shall be deemed to limit or preempt the authority of any home rule
or non-home rule unit of local government from regulating or prohibiting the
use of electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1005.1)
   (B)   Speed of operation on a sidewalk. A person may not operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device upon a public sidewalk at a speed greater
than eight miles per hour. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or
preempt the authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of local
government from regulating or prohibiting the use of electric personal
assistive mobility devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1412.2)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the following series of code sections shall be fined
pursuant to the chart set forth hereinbelow:
 
Offense Section Number 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
§                     $25         $25         $25
74.08
 
(Ord. 2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06)
CHAPTER 75: EQUIPMENT; LOADS; TRUCKS
Section
Statutory Provisions
   
75.01   Adoption of Illinois Statutory Rules of the Road
Loads, Generally
   
75.10   Overweight and/or overdimension vehicles; escorts
   
75.10A   Permits for overweight and/or overdimension vehicles
   
75.11   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.12   Protruding members of vehicles
   
75.13   Spilling loads prohibited
   
75.14   Pushing of disabled vehicles
Trucks
   
75.25   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
75.26   Limited load streets
   
75.27   Exceeding load limits; exception
   
Appendix: Oversize/weight vehicle permit application
STATUTORY PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS STATUTORY RULES OF THE ROAD.
   Pursuant to the authority and in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5 § 1-3-2 regarding the incorporation by reference of public records,
the definitions, terms and provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, Subchapter 1
(definitions) and Subchapter 11 (Rules of the Road) are hereby adopted insofar
as such definitions, terms and provisions may be applicable and not
inconsistent with any specific terms, provisions, or definitions contained in
this chapter, the same as if set out in length in this chapter, for the purpose
of regulating traffic on the roadways of the village. Any ticket or complaint
charging a violation of the provisions of the Rules of the Road incorporated
herein may note that the offense is being charged as a violation of municipal
law, but may also describe the specific offense using the statutory section
number from ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5.
(Ord. 2000-O-3, passed 3-7-00)
LOADS, GENERALLY
§ 75.10 OVERWEIGHT AND/OR OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES; ESCORTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in control of, to drive, to
park or move on, upon or across or for the owner to cause or knowingly permit
to be parked, driven, or moved upon or across any street or highway under the
jurisdiction of the village, any vehicle or combination of vehicles exceeding
the size and weight limitations stated in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 15-102 (width),
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 15-103 (height), ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 15-107 (length),
and ILCS 625, Act 5 § 15-111 (weight).
   (B)   Size and weight limitations while operating on village streets shall
not apply to fire apparatus or equipment for snow or ice removal operations
owned or operated by or for any governmental body, or to implements of
husbandry temporarily operated or towed in a combination in the furtherance of
a farm or agricultural endeavor, and to any vehicle or combination of vehicles
operating under the terms of a valid oversize and/or dimension permit issued by
the village under the authority of §
75.10A.
   (C)   Where lower size and weight limits or other restrictions are imposed
by ordinance under authority of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 §§ 15-316 and 15-317, and
signs indicating such limitations or restrictions are posted, it shall be
unlawful to operate any vehicle or combination of vehicles in excess of such
size or weight limitations or in violation of such restrictions.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate any construction vehicle, as defined
herein, on any street in the municipality when signs are posted on that street
prohibiting construction vehicles. CONSTRUCTION VEHICLE shall be defined as any
vehicle over 10,000 pounds actual weight, registered gross weight, or G.V.W.R.,
that is required to comply with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 §§ 12-712 and 12-713 on
identification required to be displayed.
   (E)   Whenever any vehicle or combination of vehicles is operated in
violation of this section, the owner and/or driver of such vehicle shall be
deemed guilty of such violation and either or both the owner or driver of such
vehicle(s) may be prosecuted for such violation.
(Ord. 2000-O-3, passed 3-7-00)
   (F)   (1)   One vehicle escort is required:
         (a)   For all moves that exceed 14 feet 6 inches in width;
         (b)   For all moves that exceed 110 feet in length;
         (c)   For all moves that exceed 14 feet 6 inches in height.
         (d)   For any move either across, upon, or along a highway when
additional warning is required to alert the traveling public. For instance, if
a movement is required to travel during darkness or on a weekend to respond to
an emergency situation, a civilian escort will be required.
      (2)   Anything which exceeds those prescribed above and larger will be
required an escort. The number of police escorts shall be determined by the
village, based on the density of the area and other safety concerns, and as may
be further required by Ill. Adm. Code Title 92, Chapter 1, Subchapter f, Part
554.407. The fees for the escort shall be $40 per hour, with a two-hour minimum
payment required.
(Am. Ord. 2000-O-3, passed 6-6-00)
Statutory reference:
   Power of village to regulate loads, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 § 11-40-l
§ 75.10A PERMITS FOR OVERWEIGHT AND/OR OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES.
   (A)   The village, with respect to any street or highway under its
jurisdiction, may upon application to the Village Engineering Department on
forms provided by the village, and good cause being shown therefore, issue a
special permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles of the size or weight or vehicle or load exceeding the
maximum specified in §
75.10. The applicant shall furnish the following information in the special
permit application:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or lessee of the vehicle;
      (2)   Applicant's name;
      (3)   Type of permit requested, whether it be for a single trip, round
trip, or multiple routing;
      (4)   The description and registration of the power unit;
      (5)   Description of the object or vehicle to be moved;
      (6)   The number of axles of the vehicle or combination of vehicles;
      (7)   The axle weights of all single, tandem or series axles;
      (8)   Gross weight of vehicle;
      (9)   The width, length and height of the vehicle and load;
      (10) The origin of the load within Illinois or state line if the origin
is outside the jurisdiction of the village. Copies of all county and/or State
of Illinois permits must be attached to the application prior to approval and
issuance of a village special permit; and
      (11) Requested routing over village streets and to specific location.
   (B)   Application fees and procedures.
      (1)   All overdimension and/or overweight vehicles shall pay a fee for
the use of the village’s roadways to cover the increased costs of making
repairs thereof and to defray the expense of providing special police services.
Any vehicle which is both overdimension and overweight shall pay a fee for two
permits, for example, one for the overdimension and one for the overweight.
      (2)   The owner of any overdimension vehicle or his agent shall submit an
application fee of $25 for a single routing which will be valid for seven
calendar days, $40 for a round trip routing valid for 14 calendar days, $120
for a multiple routing valid for a period not to exceed 120 calendar days and
$300 for multiple routing valid for an entire calendar year.
      (3)   The owner of any overweight vehicle or his agent shall submit an
application fee of $25 for a single routing, which will be valid for seven
calendar days; $40 for a round-trip routing, valid for 14 calendar days; and
$120 for a multiple routing, valid for a period not to exceed 120 calendar days
and $300 for multiple routing valid for an entire calendar year. All fees
stated shall apply to trucks or truck and trailer combinations of a gross
weight of not more than 100,000 pounds.
      (4)   Fleet discounts for haulers purchasing multiple permits shall be
available on the following schedule: For haulers with four to eight trucks, the
fees shall be reduced by 12%; for haulers with nine to 12 trucks, the fees
shall be reduced by 14%; for haulers with 13 to 15 trucks, the fees shall be
reduced by 16% and for haulers with 16 or more trucks, the fees shall be
reduced by 20%. The discounts shall be calculated on a per-truck basis, for
example, by the motorized power unit and the trailers shall not be counted.
      (5)   Any truck or truck and trailer combination with a gross weight in
excess of 100,000 pounds shall be charged an additional 25% road damage tariff,
and no fleet discount shall be available to such vehicle.
      (6)   Permits are valid only for the dates specified on the permit and
for the specific vehicle, load and routing as established by the Village
Engineer or designee.
      (7)   No substitution of vehicle, load or routing is permitted without
expressed written permission by the Village Engineer or his designee and
carried in the vehicle to which the permit applies.
   (C)   (1)   The Village Engineer or his designee is authorized to approve
the application for approved routes. Upon approval and payment of all required
fees the Village Engineer shall issue a permit allowing passage of the oversize
and/or overweight vehicle(s) over village streets. The permit shall be specific
and contain:
         (a)   Permit number;
         (b)   The date(s) the permit is valid;
         (c)   Whether the permit is single, round-trip or multiple routing;
         (d)   The description of object or vehicle to be moved;
         (e)   Authorized gross weight, axle weights, width, length and height;
         (f)   The authorized routing over village streets, including the
origin and termination point within the village;
         (g)   The fee paid; and
         (h)   The date and signature of the Village Engineer or his designee.
      (2)   In addition, the permit will specify general conditions that the
designee must comply with that are consistent and reasonable for the protection
of the general public and village streets. A copy of all permits issued will be
provided to the Chief of Police or his designee, for information and
compliance.
   (D)   It is the duty of the permittee to read and familiarize himself or
herself with the permit provisions upon receipt. Undertaking of the permit move
is deemed prima facie evidence of acceptance of the permit and that:
      (1)   The permittee is in compliance with all operation requirements;
      (2)   All dimension and weight limitations specified in the permit will
not be exceeded;
      (3)   All operation, registration and license requirements have been
complied with;
      (4)   All financial responsibilities, obligations and other legal
requirements have been met; and
      (5)   The permittee assumes all responsibility for injury or damage to
persons or to public or private property, including his own, or to the object
being transported, caused directly or indirectly by the transportation or
movement of vehicles and objects authorized under the permit. He agrees to hold
the village harmless from all suits, claims, damages, or proceedings of any
kind, and to indemnify the village for any claim it may be required to pay
arising from the movement.
   (E)   The permit shall be carried in the vehicle to which the permit applies
at all times while operating on streets within the village, and shall be
exhibited upon demand to any enforcement officer, police officer or other
authorized official of the village.
   (F)   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of a
village permit, whether it be by size, weight or general provisions, either or
both the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty, and either or
both the owner or the driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted for such
violation.
(Ord. 2000-O-3, passed 3-7-00; Am. Ord. 2002-O-14, passed 4-2-02)
§ 75.11 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
the vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders
on the right side thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 15-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.12 PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig, or other protruding component shall be
operated upon any highway in this state unless the protruding component is
fastened so as to prevent shifting, bouncing, or moving in any manner.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 15-106) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.13 SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the highway.
   (C)   The State Department of Transportation shall adopt those rules and
regulations it deems appropriate which require the securing of steel rolls and
other objects on flatbed trucks so as to prevent injury to users of highways
and damage to property. Any person who operates a flatbed truck on any highway
in violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the State Department
of Transportation under this division shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 15-109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.14 PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any highway outside an urban area in this village, except
in an extreme emergency, and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than
is reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate
hazard that exists.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 15-114) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRUCKS
§ 75.25 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a truck upon any street unless such street
has been designated for truck traffic by ordinance, except that a truck may be
driven on such street for not more than the minimum distance necessary for the
purpose of making deliveries or picking up loads of materials or merchandise.
Such delivery or pickup must constitute a direct service or benefit to the
occupant of the premises where made.
('79 Code, § 1807) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.26 LIMITED LOAD STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street in the
village when the gross weight on the surface of the road through any axle of
such vehicle exceeds 16,000 pounds. Where lower limits are imposed by ordinance
and signs indicating such limitations are posted, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except for the
purpose of making delivery or picking up a load of materials or merchandise
where such transportation constitutes a direct service or benefit to the
occupant of the premises where the delivery or pickup is made, in which case a
vehicle may be driven on such street for not more than the minimum distance
necessary for the specified service or benefit to the occupant of the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on the following streets
in the village when the gross weight on the surface of the road from such
vehicle exceeds 12,000 pounds:
      (1) On Fourth Street from its intersection with Sheridan Road to its
intersection with College Avenue.
      (2)   On College Avenue from its intersection with Third Street to its
intersection with Fourth Street.
      (3)   On Holdridge Avenue from its intersection with Third Street to its
intersection with Fourth Street.
('79 Code, § 1807(a)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.27 EXCEEDING LOAD LIMITS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The transportation of materials or merchandise by vehicles exceeding
the load limits as prescribed by §
75.26 beyond the boundaries of the village, shall be prohibited except under
the specific conditions set forth in §
75.26.
   (B)   The above weight limitation of 12,000 pounds per vehicle on the
aforesaid streets shall not apply to any truck engaged in the act of lawfully
collecting refuse according to a predetermined schedule.
('79 Code, § 1807(b) - (d)) Penalty, see §
70.99
APPENDIX: OVERSIZE/WEIGHT VEHICLE PERMIT APPLICATION
VILLAGE OF WINTHROP HARBOR
830 Sheridan Road
Winthrop Harbor, IL 60096
(847) 872-3846
OVERSIZE/WEIGHT VEHICLE PERMIT APPLICATION
____________________________________________________________________________________________
Account No.                              Date
____________________________________________________________________________________________
Permittee (owner or lessee of vehicle)
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Applicant's Name or Work Order (optional)               Type of Permit
Applicant's Address                      ______      Single Trip
                           ______      Round Trip
                           ______      Multiple Routing
____________________________________________________________________________________________
Power Unit Description                           License No.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Description of Object or Vehicle to be Moved
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Number of Axles       Gross Weight          Axle Weights (beginning with steer
axle)
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Width          Length          Height          From
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Routes
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
To (specify destination)
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
(Do Not Write Below This Line - For Village Use Only)
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Date   Permit Number         Authorized Movement as Described Above with the
Following
Exceptions/Conditions
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Gross Weight   Axle Weights   Front Tandem (or axle) _________________ No. Axle
Exceeds______________
         _____Legal or Rear Tandem (or axle) ________________ No. Axle
Exceeds______________
2002 S-11
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Width      Length      Height      From
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
To         Effective         Expires               Fee
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Permit Must Comply with General Provisions on back and Special Provision
Numbers
____________________________________________________________________________________________
FOR POLICE USE ONLY      Ext. No.            Effective         Expires
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
For verification of permit, call one of the above numbers.
This permit must be carried in the vehicle and must be available for inspection
by police or Village officials.
If it is found that this permit does not cover the move, the permittee must
contact the Village and have the permit corrected prior to starting the move.
Check by: ofc. __________________________________
Agency: ________________________________________
Date: ___________________________________________
________________________________________________
         AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE
CHAPTER 76: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
76.01   Reckless driving
   
76.02   Street racing; street sideshows
   
76.03   [Reserved]
   
76.04   Duty to give information and render aid
   
76.05   Crash involving damage to vehicle
   
76.06   Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or other property
   
76.07   Duty to report accident
   
76.08   False reports
   
76.09   When driver fails to report
   
76.10   Driving under the influence of alcohol or other drug
Impoundment and Forfeiture
   
76.25   Impoundment
   
76.26   Title recovery by owner upon payment of costs and penalty
   
76.27   Forfeiture of property
   
76.28   Proceeds of sale, forfeiture, or other disposition
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 76.01 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   A person commits reckless driving if he or she:
   (A)   Drives any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the safety
of persons or property; or
   (B)   Knowingly drives a vehicle and uses an incline in a roadway, such as a
railroad crossing, bridge approach, or hill, to cause the vehicle to become
airborne.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-503(a)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.02 STREET RACING; STREET SIDESHOWS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall engage in street racing on any street or highway
of this state.
      (2)   No person shall engage in a street sideshow on any street or
highway of this state.
   (B)   (1)   No owner of any vehicle shall acquiesce in or permit his or her
vehicle to be used by another for the purpose of street racing or a street
sideshow.
      (2)   A person may not knowingly interfere with or cause the movement of
traffic to slow or stop for the purpose of facilitating street racing or a
street sideshow.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.:
      ACQUIESCE or PERMIT. Actual knowledge that the motor vehicle was to be
used for the purpose of street racing or a street sideshow.
      MOTOR VEHICLE STUNT. I\includes, but is not limited to, operating a
vehicle in a manner that causes the vehicle to slide or spin, driving within
the proximity of a gathering of persons, performing maneuvers to demonstrate
the performance capability of the motor vehicle, or maneuvering the vehicle in
an attempt to elicit a reaction from a gathering of persons.
      STREET RACING.
         (a)   The operation of two or more vehicles from a point side by side
at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to outdistance each other; or
         (b)   The operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected
course, each starting at the same point, for the purpose of comparing the
relative speeds or power of acceleration of such vehicle or vehicles within a
certain distance or time limit; or
         (c)   The use of one or more vehicles in an attempt to outgain or
outdistance another vehicle; or
         (d)   The use of one or more vehicles to prevent another vehicle from
passing; or
         (e)   The use of one or more vehicles to arrive at a given destination
ahead of another vehicle or vehicles; or
         (f)   The use of one or more vehicles to test the physical stamina or
endurance of drivers over long-distance driving routes.
      STREET SIDESHOW. An event in which one or more vehicles block or impede
traffic on a street or highway, for the purpose of performing unauthorized
motor vehicle stunts, motor vehicle speed contests, or motor vehicle
exhibitions of speed.
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of divisions (A)(1), (A)
(2) or (B)(2) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor for the first offense
and shall be subject to a minimum fine of $250. Any person convicted of a
violation of divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or (B)(2) a second or subsequent time
shall be guilty of a Class 4 felony and shall be subject to a minimum fine of
$500. The driver's license of any person convicted of division (A)(1) shall be
revoked in the manner provided by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-205.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of division (B)(1) shall
be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Any person who is convicted of division (B)
(1) for a second or subsequent time shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (3)   Every person convicted of committing a violation of division (A)(1)
shall be guilty of aggravated street racing if the person, in committing a
violation of division (A)(1) was involved in a motor vehicle crash that
resulted in great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to
another, where the violation was a proximate cause of the injury. Aggravated
street racing is a Class 4 felony for which the defendant, if sentenced to a
term of imprisonment, shall be sentenced to not less than one year nor more
than 12 years.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-506)
§ 76.03 [RESERVED].
§ 76.04 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall give the driver’s name, address, registration
number, and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating, and shall upon
request and if available, exhibit the driver’s license to the person struck or
the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with, and
shall render to any person injured in the crash reasonable assistance,
including the carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of the
person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment,
if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is
requested by the injured person.
   (B)   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
section is in condition to receive and understand the information and no police
officer is present, the driver, after rendering reasonable assistance, shall
forthwith report the crash at the Police Department, disclosing the information
required by this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.05 CRASH INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall
immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the motor vehicle crash or as
close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every event
shall remain at the scene of the motor vehicle crash until the requirements of
this chapter have been fulfilled. A driver does not violate this section if the
driver moves the vehicle as soon as possible off the highway to the nearest
safe location on an exit ramp shoulder, a frontage road, the nearest suitable
cross street, or other suitable location that does not obstruct traffic and
remains at that location until the driver has fulfilled the requirements of §
76.04. Every stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the
vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved
so as not to block the traffic lanes.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, and in
such case a statement of this finding shall be reported to the Secretary of
State with the report of conviction.
   (C)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds a vehicle
standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a prohibition,
limitation or restriction on stopping, standing or parking imposed under this
traffic code, or a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway or a highway or
toll highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to
move the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle
to the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted, or to
public parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under
the direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the
peace officer or highway authority official shall follow appropriate procedures
as provided under state law.
   (D)    A towing service, its officers, and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (C).
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.06 DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a
motor vehicle crash with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to such other vehicle or property shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle or other property of the driver's name, address, registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach
securely in a conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a
written notice giving the driver's name, address, registration number and owner
of the vehicle the driver was driving and shall without unnecessary delay
notify the nearest office of a duly authorized police authority and shall make
a written report of such crash when and as required in §
76.07. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the
vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved
so as not to block the traffic lanes.
   (B)   Any person failing to comply with this section shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (C)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds (i) a vehicle
standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a prohibition,
limitation, or restriction on stopping, standing, or parking imposed under this
code or (ii) a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a highway or toll
highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to move
the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle to
the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted, or to
public parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under
the direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the
peace officer or highway authority official shall follow appropriate
procedures, as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203.
   (D)   A towing service, its officers, and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (C) above, as provided
in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.07 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within this village, resulting in injury to or death of any person or in which
damage to the property of any one address, person, including himself, in excess
of $250 is sustained shall, as soon as possible but not later than ten days
after the accident, file with the Police Department a copy of the accident
report required to be filed with the state under state law.
   (B)   Whenever a school bus is involved in an accident in this village,
caused by a collision, a sudden stop, or otherwise, resulting in any property
damage, personal injury, or death, and whenever an accident occurs within 50
feet of a school bus in this village resulting in personal injury to or the
death of any person while awaiting or preparing to board the bus or immediately
after exiting the bus, the driver shall as soon as possible, but not later than
ten days after the accident, forward a written report to the Police Department.
If a report is also required under division (A) above, that report and the
report required by this division (B) shall be submitted on a single form.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may require any driver, occupant, or owner of a
vehicle involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in
this section or §
76.09 to file supplemental reports whenever the original report is insufficient
in the opinion of the Chief of Police and may require witnesses of the accident
to submit written reports. The report may include photographs, charts,
sketches, and graphs.
   (D)   Should the Police Department learn through other reports of accidents
required by law of the occurrence of an accident reportable under §§
76.03  through
76.09  and the driver, owner, or witness has not reported as required under (A)
or (C) above or §
76.09  within the time specified, the person is not relieved of the
responsibility and the Police Department shall notify the person by first class
mail directed to his last known address of his legal obligation. However, the
notification is not a condition precedent to impose the penalty for failure to
report as provided in (E) below.
   (E)   The Secretary of State shall suspend the driver's license or any
nonresident's driving privilege of any person who fails or neglects to make
report of a traffic accident as herein required or as required by any other law
of this state.
Statutory reference:
   Authorization for village to require accident reports, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 11-415
§ 76.08 FALSE REPORTS.
   Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
§§
76.03  through
76.09  with knowledge or reason to believe that the information is false shall
be fined as provided in §
70.99 .
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-409)
§ 76.09 WHEN DRIVER FAILS TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a
required written accident report and if there was another occupant in the
vehicle at the time of the motor vehicle accident capable of making a written
report, the occupant shall make or cause the written report to be made. If the
driver fails for any reason to make the report the owner of the vehicle
involved in the motor vehicle accident shall, as soon as practicable, make the
report to the Police Department.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-410)
Editor’s note:
   ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-410 was repealed by P.A. 102-560, effective 8-20-
2021.
§ 76.10 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR OTHER DRUG.
   (A)   A person shall not drive or be in actual physical control of any
vehicle within this village while:
      (1)   The alcohol concentration in such person’s blood or breath is 0.10
or more based on the definition of blood and breath units in ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 11-501.2;
      (2)   Under the influence of alcohol;
      (3)   Under the influence of any other drug or combination of drugs to a
degree which renders such person incapable of safely driving;
      (4)   Under the combined influence of alcohol and any other drug or drugs
to a degree which renders such person incapable of safely driving;
      (5)   There is any amount of drug, substance or compound in such person’s
blood or urine resulting from the unlawful use or consumption of cannabis
listed in the Cannabis Control Act, (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.), or a
controlled substance listed in the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, (ILCS
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.).
   (B)   The fact that any person charged with violating this section is or has
been legally entitled to use alcohol, or other drugs, or any combination of
both, shall not constitute a defense under any charge of violating this
section.
   (C)   Except as provided under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501(d), every
person convicted of violating this section or a similar provision of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and, in
addition to any other criminal or administrative action, for any second
conviction of violating this section or a similar provision of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes committed within five years of a previous violation of this
section or a similar provision of the Illinois Compiled Statutes shall be
mandatorily sentenced to a minimum of 48 consecutive hours of imprisonment
within the Lake County jail, or, be assigned to a minimum of ten days of
community service as may be determined by the court. The imprisonment or
assignment shall not be subject to suspension nor shall the person be eligible
for probation in order to reduce the sentence or assignment.
   (D)   After a finding of guilt and prior to any final sentencing, or an
order for supervision, for an offense based upon arrest for violation of this
section or a similar provision of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, individuals
shall be required to undergo a professional evaluation to determine if any
alcohol or other drug abuse problem exists and the extent of such a problem.
Programs conducting these evaluations shall be licensed by the Department of
Alcoholism and Substance Abuse. The cost of any such professional evaluation
shall be paid for by the individual required to undergo such professional
evaluation.
   (E)   Every person found guilty of violating this section or similar
provision of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, whose operation of a vehicle while
in violation of this section or a similar provision of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes, proximately caused any incident resulting in an appropriate emergency
response, shall be allowable for the expense of an emergency response as
provided under ILCS Ch. 730, Act 5, § 5-5-3.
   (F)   The Secretary of State shall revoke the driving privileges of any
person convicted under this section or a similar provision of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
(Am. Ord. 1992-O-14, passed 6-16-92)
IMPOUNDMENT AND FORFEITURE
§ 76.25 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any motor vehicle may be impounded by the village as a result of a violation
of §
76.01, driving while under the influence of alcohol, other drug, or combination
thereof or a violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501 or ILCS Ch. 720, Act
570, § 505. The arresting police officer shall immediately notify the village
Police Department and have the vehicle removed and stored at the lot located
behind the village ESDA Center pursuant to the provisions ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 4-203.
(Ord. 1989-O-18, passed 6-6-89; Am. Ord. 2008-O-2, passed 3-4-08)
§ 76.26 TITLE RECOVERY BY OWNER UPON PAYMENT OF COSTS AND PENALTY.
   Unless recovery is prohibited by any state statute or local ordinance, any
motor vehicle or part(s) thereof removed and impounded by the village pursuant
to this subchapter may be recovered by the owner or operator thereof upon the
payment of all costs incident to the removal and impounding of such vehicle or
part(s) in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203.
Payment of such recovery costs shall be in addition to the penalty that may be
imposed upon conviction of a violation of this subchapter as hereinafter
provided. A $25 per day storage charge shall be assessed by the village.
(Ord. 1989-O-18, passed 6-16-89; Am. Ord. 2008-O-2, passed 3-4-08)
§ 76.27 FORFEITURE OF PROPERTY.
   All property, including but not limited to vehicles, are subject to
forfeiture pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 36-1 et seq. and ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 570, § 505(a)(3) for any violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances
Act occurring within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 1989-O-18, passed 6-16-89)
§ 76.28 PROCEEDS OF SALE, FORFEITURE OR OTHER DISPOSITION.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the village is
authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth
in this subchapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in a
special account of the village.
(Ord. 1989-O-18, passed 6-16-89)
CHAPTER 77: VEHICLE TOWING REGULATIONS
Section
   
77.01   Vehicle code adopted by reference
   
77.02   Levy of administrative fee
   
77.03   Fee schedule
   
77.04   Impound
   
77.05   Applicability
   
77.06   Violation
   
77.07   Reserved
   
77.08   Reserved
   
77.09   Reserved
   
77.10   Procedures
   
77.11   Abandonment
 
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village adopts the provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201 through
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-214 and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.7 as the basic
regulations to be applied by the Police Department in arranging for motor
vehicles described therein to be removed from the public streets of this
village.
(Ord. 2009-O-11, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. 2011-O-20, passed 12-20-11)
§ 77.02 LEVY OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   The registered owner or agent of the owner of a vehicle impounded pursuant
to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.7 and this chapter shall be liable to the
village for payment of an administrative fee in the amount set forth in §
77.03.
(Ord. 2009-O-11, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. 2011-O-20, passed 12-20-11) Penalty,
see §
77.99
§ 77.03 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The administrative fee charged for all acts and record-keeping relating to
the towing of vehicles within the village by the Police Department shall be
$500 per vehicle, per tow.
(Ord. 2009-O-11, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. 2010-O-9, passed 5-4-10; Am. Ord.
2011-O-20, passed 12-20-11; Am. Ord. 2014-O-18, passed 10-21-14; Am. Ord. 2020-
O-13, passed 7-21-20) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.04 IMPOUND.
   No towing company or tow operator shall release any vehicle towed at the
request of the Police Department to any person, unless that person shall first
provide a receipt to the towing company or tow operator demonstrating that the
administrative fee described and levied in this chapter shall have been paid in
full, or an order from the village's duly designated administrative hearing
officer certifying that the fees do not apply to the towing of this particular
vehicle.
(Ord. 2009-O-11, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. 2011-O-20, passed 12-20-11) Penalty,
see §
77.99
§ 77.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter and the fees described herein shall apply to vehicles being
towed as a result of one or more violations of the Illinois Vehicle Code set
forth in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.7(b), and further shall not apply to a
simple traffic accident, roadway breakdown or other, similar reason wholly
unrelated to any of the violations.
(Ord. 2009-O-11, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. 2011-O-20, passed 12-20-11) Penalty,
see §
77.99
§ 77.06 VIOLATION.
   No person or company shall violate any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-O-11, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. 2011-O-20, passed 12-20-11) Penalty,
see §
77.99
§ 77.07 RESERVED
§ 77.08 RESERVED
§ 77.09 RESERVED
§ 77.10 PROCEDURES. 
   The following procedures shall be used in assessing any fees under this
chapter:
   (A)   Hearing. The registered owner or his or her agent shall be afforded
the opportunity for a hearing as described in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3
and Chapter 39 of this code.
   (B)   Notice. The registered owner or his or her agent shall be notified as
follows:
       (1)   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor
vehicle is subject to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of
the vehicle to a facility authorized by the municipality.
      (2)   At the time the vehicle is towed, the municipality shall notify or
make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee or person identifying
himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is
found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of
the fact of the seizure, and of the vehicle owner's or lessee's right to an
administrative hearing.
      (3)   The municipality shall also provide notice that the motor vehicle
will remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing,
unless the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder posts with the
municipality a bond equal to the administrative fee as provided by ordinance,
and pays for all towing and storage charges.
   (C)   Form of notice. The notice required by division (B) hereinabove shall
conform to the following regulations:
      (1)   It shall be served upon the owner, lessee and any lienholder of
record, either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested
party's address as registered with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   It shall be served upon interested parties within 10 days after a
vehicle is impounded by the municipality; and
      (3)   It shall contain the date, time and location of the administrative
hearing. An initial hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than 45
days after the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
   (D)   Hearings.  In addition to the general administrative procedures set
forth in Chapter 39 of this code and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3, the
following specific procedures shall apply to vehicle towing and impoundment
cases under this chapter:
      (1)   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by a hearing officer who
is an attorney licensed to practice law in this state for a minimum of 3 years;
      (2)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing
officer shall issue a written decision, either sustaining or overruling the
vehicle impoundment;
      (3)   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
administrative hearing officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the
release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the municipality;
      (4)   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law; and
      (5)   Unless the administrative hearing officer overturns the basis for
the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee or
lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid.
   (E)    Enforcement and appeal. Unless stayed by a court of competent
jurisdiction, any fine, penalty or administrative fee imposed under this
section that remains unpaid, in whole or in part, after the expiration of the
deadline for seeking judicial review under the Administrative Review Law, may
be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2011-O-20, passed 12-20-11)
§ 77.11 ABANDONMENT.  
   Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility within
35 days after the administrative hearing officer issues a written decision
shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of Chapter 4 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-
201 et. seq.).
(Ord. 2011-O-20, passed 12-20-11)
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   A person or company found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined $350, and shall further be liable for any unpaid portion of any
administrative fee charged on any vehicle. In addition to any fine or charge
imposed by this section, any tow company or tow operator found guilty of
violating any provision of this chapter shall lose the right to conduct tows
within the village for a period of three months for a first offense, for a
period of six months for a second offense, and permanently for any third or
subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2009-O-11, passed 6-16-09; Am. Ord. 2011-O-20, passed 12-20-11)
CHAPTER 78: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   Yield right-of-way intersections
   
III.   One-way streets
   
IV.   Speed limits
   
V.   No trailered boat traffic allowed
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following street intersections are hereby declared to be "stop"
intersections:
Intersection Description Ord. No. Passage Date
Intersection Description                   Ord. No.             Passage Date
Adams Avenue stopping traffic at 11th      1986-O-28            10-7-86
Street
Aiken Alley stopping northbound traffic at 1986-O-28            10-7-86
12th Street
Aiken Alley stopping southbound traffic at 1986-O-28            10-7-86
13th Street
Aiken Court stopping northbound traffic at 1989-O-3             1-17-88
13th and 14th Streets
Aiken Court stopping southbound traffic at 1989-O-3             1-17-88
14th Street
Alton Court stopping traffic at 9th Street 1986-O-28            10-7-86
East Broadway Avenue stopping traffic at   1986-O-28            10-7-86
9th Street
West Broadway Avenue stopping traffic at   1986-O-28            10-7-86
9th Street
West Broadway Avenue stopping northbound   1986-O-28            10-7-86
traffic at 13th Street
Cavin Avenue stopping southbound traffic   2008-O-1             2-5-08
at 3rd Street
Cavin Avenue stopping traffic at 1st
Street, southbound traffic at6thStreet and 1989-O-44; 1990-O-10 12-5-89; 4-3-90
northbound traffic at 4th Street
Cedar Court stopping traffic at Ravine     1986-O-28            10-7-86
Drive
Charles Avenue stopping traffic at 9th     1986-O-28            10-7-86
Street
Chesapeake Bay stopping traffic at Old     1992-O-29            12-15-92
Darby Lane
Chestnut Circle stopping traffic at Ravine 1986-O-28            10-7-86
Drive
Clearview Court stopping traffic at        1987-O-24            6-24-87
Prairie Avenue
College Avenue stopping traffic at 1st,    1986-O-28            10-7-86
7th, 8th, and 9th Streets
Creekside Court stopping northbound        2008-O-1             2-5-08
traffic at 13th Street
Danbury Cove stopping traffic at Old Darby 1992-O-29            12-15-92
Lane
Deerpath Circle stopping traffic at Ravine 1986-O-28            10-7-86
Drive
 
Intersection Description Ord. No. Passage Date
Intersection Description                 Ord. No.             Passage Date
Deerpath Drive stopping traffic at       1986-O-28            10-7-86
Ravine Drive
Ellis Avenue stopping traffic at 9th     1986-O-28            10-7-86
Street
English Lane stopping traffic at         1986-O-28            10-7-86
Washington Avenue
Fifth Street stopping westbound traffic  1993-O-03            3-2-93
at Roberts Road
Fossland Avenue stopping southbound      2008-O-1             2-5-08
traffic at 5th Street
Franklin Avenue stopping traffic at 7th, 1986-O-28; 1990-O-31 10-7-86; 11-20-90
9th, 10th, and 12th Streets
Fulton Avenue stopping traffic at 7th,   1986-O-28            10-7-86
8th, 9th, 11th, 13th, and 14thStreets
Funderburk Drive stopping traffic at     1986-O-28            10-7-86
14th Street
Garnett Avenue stopping traffic at 1st,  1986-O-28; 1991-O-29 10-7-86; 11-5-91
5th and 7th Streets
Garnett Avenue stopping southbound       1986-O-28            10-7-86
traffic at3rd Street
Geddes Avenue stopping traffic at 1st    1986-O-28            10-7-86
and 7th Streets
Geddes Avenue stopping northbound        1989-O-28            8-1-89
traffic at 3rd and 5th Streets
Holdridge Avenue stopping traffic at     1986-O-28            10-7-86
1st, 7th, and 9th Streets
Holdridge Avenue stopping northbound     1986-O-28            10-7-86
traffic at 5th Street
Ja-Lor Court stopping traffic at         1986-O-28            10-7-86
Holdridge Avenue
Kimberly Lane stopping traffic at 9th    1986-O-28            10-7-86
Street
Kimberly Lane stopping southbound        1989-O-3             1-17-88
traffic at 10th Street
Kirkwood Avenue stopping traffic at 1st, 1986-O-28            10-7-86
2nd, 5th, 6th, 8th, and9thStreets
Kirkwood Avenue stopping northbound      1986-O-28            10-7-86
traffic at 3rd Street
Landon Avenue stopping traffic at 7th,   1986-O-28            10-7-86
9th, 11th, and 13th Streets
Landon Avenue stopping northbound        1990-O-31            11-20-90
traffic at 14th Street
Mary Avenue stopping traffic at 11th     1986-O-28            10-7-86
Street
Meadow Court stopping traffic at Meadow  1987-O-24            6-24-87
Lane
Megan Place stopping southbound traffic  2008-O-1             2-5-08
at 5th Street
Monroe Avenue stopping traffic at 9th    1986-O-28            10-7-86
and 11th Streets
Monroe Avenue stopping southbound        1986-O-28            10-7-86
traffic at 15th Street
North Avenue stopping traffic at 1st     1986-O-28            10-7-86
Street
Oakdale Avenue stopping traffic at 3rd   1986-O-28            10-7-86
Street
Old Darby Lane stopping traffic at       1992-O-29            12-15-92
Roberts Road
Park Avenue stopping traffic at 10th,    1986-O-28            10-7-86
12th, 13th, and 15th Streets
Potomac Lane stopping traffic at Old     1992-O-29            12-15-92
Darby Lane
Prairie Avenue stopping traffic at 5th   1987-O-24            6-24-87
Street
 
Intersection Description Ord. No. Passage Date
Intersection Description                                 Ord. No.  Passage Date
Prairie Ridge Drive stopping southbound traffic at 5th   2008-O-1  2-5-08
Street
Rachel Court stopping westbound traffic at Megan Place   2008-O-1  2-5-08
Ravine Drive stopping traffic at 7th Street and Sheridan 1986-O-28 10-7-86
Road
Ravine Apartments, at driveway, 830 Park Avenue,         1986-O-28 10-7-86
stopping trafficat 9th Street
Roberts Road stopping traffic at 9th Street and James    1989-O-28 8-1-89
Avenue
Runyard Avenue stopping traffic at 4th Street            1986-O-28 10-7-86
Russell Avenue stopping traffic at 1st, 3rd, 6th, and    1986-O-28 10-7-86
9th Streets
Sarah Court stopping westbound traffic at Megan Place    2008-O-1  2-5-08
Shields Avenue stopping traffic at 9th Street            1986-O-28 10-7-86
Thompson Avenue stopping traffic at 1st, 3rd, and 6th    1986-O-28 10-7-86
Streets
Washington Avenue stopping traffic at 9th Street         1986-O-28 10-7-86
Whitney Avenue stopping traffic at 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th,   1987-O-21 6-2-87
and 9th Streets
Wilson Avenue stopping traffic at 4th Street             1986-O-28 10-7-86
1st Street stopping traffic at Sheridan Road             1986-O-28 10-7-86
2nd Street stopping traffic at College and Geddes        1986-O-28 10-7-86
Avenues
2nd Street stopping traffic at Garnett Avenue            2008-O-1  2-5-08
2nd Street stopping westbound traffic at Cavin Avenue    2008-O-1  2-5-08
2nd Street stopping westbound traffic at Sheridan Road,  1992-O-15 6-16-92
RussellAvenue and Holdridge Avenue
2nd Street stopping eastbound traffic at Russell Avenue  1992-O-15 6-16-92
3rd Street stopping traffic at Holdridge Avenue          1986-O-28 10-7-86
3rd Street stopping westbound traffic at Sheridan Road   1986-O-28 10-7-86
3rd Street stopping eastbound traffic at College Avenue  1986-O-28 10-7-86
3rd Street stopping traffic at Geddes and Holdridge      1991-O-17 7-16-91
Avenue
4th Street stopping eastbound traffic at Fossland Avenue 2008-O-1  2-5-08
4th Street stopping eastbound traffic at Sheridan Road   1986-O-28 10-7-86
4th Street stopping traffic at Thompson and Wilson       1986-O-28 10-7-86
Avenues
4th Street stopping westbound traffic at Prairie Ridge   2008-O-1  2-5-08
Drive
5th Street stopping traffic at Thompson, Russell,        1989-O-44 12-5-89
College and CavinAvenues
5th Street stopping eastbound traffic at Sheridan Road   1986-O-28 10-7-86
6th Street stopping traffic at Geddes, College and       1986-O-28 10-7-86
HoldridgeAvenues
6th Street stopping westbound traffic at Garnett Avenue  1986-O-28 10-7-86
6th Street stopping eastbound traffic at Sheridan Road   1986-O-28 10-7-86
 
Intersection Description Ord. No. Passage Date
Intersection Description                                 Ord. No.  Passage Date
7th Street stopping traffic at Sheridan Road by light,   1989-O-20 8-1-89
and by signonThompson, Russell, and Kirkwood Avenues
8th Street stopping traffic eastbound on 8th at          1989-O-20 8-1-89
Sheridan, Geddes,and Landon
8th Street stopping traffic westbound on 8th Street at   1989-O-20 8-1-89
Russell andLandon
8th Street pedestrian/bicycle walkway stopping traffic
at Holdridge,Thompson (east and westbound), and          1987-O-31 9-1-87
eastbound trafficat Russell Avenue
8th Street stopping westbound traffic at Russell Avenue  1986-O-28 10-7-86
9th Street stopping traffic at Lewis Avenue and Sheridan 1986-O-28 10-7-86
Road (light)
10th Street stopping traffic at East Broadway Avenue     1986-O-28 10-7-86
10th Street stopping westbound traffic at Monroe Avenue  1989-O-3  1-17-88
10th Street stopping traffic at Ellis Avenue             1992-O-29 12-15-92
11th Street stopping traffic at Sheridan Road, Monroe,   1986-O-28 10-7-86
East Broadway, and West Broadway Avenues
12th Street stopping traffic at Sheridan Road and Adams  1986-O-28 10-7-86
Avenue
13th Street stopping traffic at Monroe and Lewis Avenues 1986-O-28 10-7-86
13th Street stopping eastbound traffic at West Broadway  2004-O-6  3-16-04
14th Street stopping traffic at Monroe Avenue            1986-O-28 10-7-86
14th Street stopping eastbound traffic at Park Avenue    1990-O-31 11-20-90
14th Street stopping traffic at Franklin Avenue          1990-O-31 11-20-90
2100 and 2120 11th Street stopping traffic on apartment  1986-O-28 10-7-86
drivewaysat11th Street
 
('79 Code, § 1801(28)(d))
   (B)   The following street intersections are hereby declared to be "four-way
stop" intersections:
Intersection Description Ord. No. Passage Date
Intersection Description        Ord. No.  Passage Date
Franklin Avenue and 13th Street 1987-O-8  2-3-87
Franklin Avenue and 14th Street 1997-O-28 11-4-97
Fulton Avenue and 10th Street   1997-O-28 11-4-97
Geddes Avenue and 3rd Street    1991-O-17 7-16-91
Kirkwood Avenue and 6th Street  1998-O-21 9-15-98
Monroe Avenue and 11th Street   1987-O-8  2-3-87
Roberts Road and James Avenue   1989-O-20 8-1-89
Thompson Avenue and 5th Street  1999-O-33 12-21-99
6th Street and Holdridge Avenue 2005-O-22 10-4-05
7th Street and College Avenue   1987-O-8  2-3-87
11th Street and Fulton Avenue   2008-O-24 11-18-08
13th Street and Aiken Court     1987-O-8  2-3-87
13th Street and Monroe Avenue   1989-O-20 8-1-89
 
('79 Code, § 1801(28)(e)) (Ord. 1998-O-21, passed 9-15-98)
   (C)   The following street intersections are hereby declared to be "three-
way stop" intersections:
Intersection Description Ord. No. Passage Date
Intersection Description                                 Ord. No.  Passage Date
Camden Cove stopping traffic at Fairhaven Drive          1990-O-29 10-16-90
Casco Bay stopping traffic at Fairhaven Drive            1990-O-29 10-16-90
Cedar Court stopping traffic at Ravine Drive             1990-O-29 10-16-90
Chestnut Circle stopping traffic at Ravine Drive         1990-O-29 10-16-90
Deerpath Drive stopping traffic at Ravine Drive          1990-O-29 10-16-90
Meadow Lane stopping traffic at 5th Street               1987-O-24 6-24-87
Park Avenue and 14th Street                              1997-O-27 11-4-97
Roberts Road and Fifth Street                            1995-O-15 10-17-95
Roberts Road and Old Darby Lane (north end)              1995-O-15 10-17-95
5th Street and Prairie Avenue                            2005-O-17 8-16-05
5th Street stopping east and westbound traffic at Meadow 1987-O-24 6-24-87
Lane
6th Street stopping traffic at College Avenue            1990-O-26 9-4-90
7th Street stopping traffic at Kirkwood Avenue           1987-O-8  2-3-87
10th Street stopping southbound traffic at Shields       1989-O-3  1-17-88
Avenue
10th Street stopping westbound and eastbound traffic at  2004-O-17 9-21-04
Kimberly Avenue
10th Street stopping westbound and eastbound traffic at  1989-O-3  1-17-88
Shields Avenue
 
('79 Code, § 1801(28)(g))
   (D)   Penalty. Every person who is convicted of a violation of this schedule
shall be punished by a fine as set forth in §
70.99.
SCHEDULE II. YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following intersections are hereby declared to be yield right-of-
way intersections:
   (B)   Traffic on the following streets will stop at 9th Street west of
Sheridan Road (IL Route 173) to the village limits (covered by County Highway
Regulations):
 
Street               Ord. No.  Passage Date
Alton Court          1986-O-28 10-7-86
Charles Avenue       1986-O-28 10-7-86
College Avenue       1986-O-28 10-7-86
East Broadway Avenue 1986-O-28 10-7-86
 
Street Ord. No. Passage Date
Street               Ord. No.  Passage Date
Ellis Avenue         1986-O-28 10-7-86
Holdridge Avenue     1986-O-28 10-7-86
Kimberly Lane        1986-O-28 10-7-86
Kirkwood Avenue      1986-O-28 10-7-86
Monroe Avenue        1986-O-28 10-7-86
Russell Avenue       1986-O-28 10-7-86
Shields Avenue       1986-O-28 10-7-86
Washington Avenue    1986-O-28 10-7-86
West Broadway Avenue 1986-O-28 10-7-86
Whitney Avenue       1986-O-28 10-7-86
 
   (C)   Traffic on the following streets will stop at 1st Street, also known
as Russell Road, (covered by County Highway Regulations):
Street Ord. No. Passage Date
Street           Ord. No.  Passage Date
Cavin Avenue     1986-O-28 10-7-86
College Avenue   1986-O-28 10-7-86
Garnett Avenue   1986-O-28 10-7-86
Geddes Avenue    1986-O-28 10-7-86
Holdridge Avenue 1986-O-28 10-7-86
Kirkwood Avenue  1986-O-28 10-7-86
North Avenue     1986-O-28 10-7-86
Old Darby Lane   1992-O-29 12-15-92
Thompson Avenue  1986-O-28 10-7-86
 
   (D)   Traffic on the following streets will stop at Sheridan Road (IL Route
173), covered by County Highway Regulations:
Street Ord. No. Passage Date
Street                            Ord. No.  Passage Date
Alley between 6th and 7th Streets 1986-O-28 10-7-86
Burke Drive                       1986-O-28 10-7-86
Park Avenue                       1986-O-28 10-7-86
1st Street (Russell Road)         1986-O-28 10-7-86
2nd Street                        1986-O-28 10-7-86
3rd Street                        1986-O-28 10-7-86
4th Street                        1986-O-28 10-7-86
6th Street                        1986-O-28 10-7-86
 
Street Ord. No. Passage Date
Street      Ord. No.  Passage Date
7th Street  1986-O-28 10-7-86
8th Street  1986-O-28 10-7-86
9th Street  1986-O-28 10-7-86
10th Street 1986-O-28 10-7-86
11th Street 1986-O-28 10-7-86
12th Street 1986-O-28 10-7-86
13th Street 1986-O-28 10-7-86
14th Street 1986-O-28 10-7-86
 
   (E)   Traffic on the following street will stop at Kenosha Road (covered by
County Highway Regulations):
 
Street     Ord. No.  Passage Date
5th Street 1986-O-28 10-7-86
('79 Code, § 1801(28)(f))
   (F)   Penalty. Any person who violates this schedule shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
70.99.
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets are designated as one-way streets, and all
vehicular traffic shall move only in the direction indicated:
 
Street                    Direction Ord. No.              Date
       between 1707 7th
Alley  Street and 711-719 East      1987-O-37;  2010-O-19 11-17-87;  10-19-10
       Sheridan Road
 
('79 Code, § 1805(1))
(B) Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be
subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The maximum speed for motor vehicles on all streets within the village
(except those described in division (B) hereinbelow) shall be 25 miles per
hour;
   (B)   The maximum speed set forth in division (A) hereinabove shall not
apply to the following roads, which are owned or maintained by the State of
Illinois Department of Transportation and/or the Lake County Department of
Transportation:
      (1)   Sheridan Road (Illinois Route 137);
      (2)   Lewis Avenue;
      (3)   Kenosha Road;
      (4)   Russell Road;
      (5)   Ninth Street.
   (C)   Penalty. Every person who is convicted of a violation of this schedule
shall be subject to the penalty provisions of § 70.99.
(‘79 Code, § 1801(12) (Ord. 1989-O-16, passed 6-20-89; Am. Ord. 1991-O-09,
passed 4-2-91; Am. Ord. 1991-O-29, passed 11-5-91; Am. Ord. 1992-O-15, passed
6-16-92; Am. Ord. 1992-O-29, passed 12-15-92; Am. Ord. 2010-O-12, passed 7-6-
2010; Am. Ord. 2011-O-13, passed 7-19-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-O-24, passed 11-6-
2012)
SCHEDULE V. NO TRAILERED BOAT TRAFFIC ALLOWED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle upon the following streets while
pulling a trailer loaded with a boat unless said vehicle is registered locally:
 
Street          Description                                 Ord. No.  Date
Franklin Avenue On 700 and 800 block                        1989-O-16 6-20-89
Fulton Avenue   On 700 and 800 block                        1989-O-16 6-20-89
Landon Avenue   On 700 and 800 block                        1989-O-16 6-20-89
                North and south, between 5th Street and 6th
North Avenue    Street, from the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 2011-O-21 12-20-11
                a.m. and 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., schools
                days
Ravine Drive    From Sheridan Road to 7th Street            1989-O-16 6-20-89
8th Street      From Sheridan Road to Park Avenue           1989-O-16 6-20-89
 
   (B)   Penalty. Every person who is convicted of a violation of this schedule
shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
CHAPTER 79: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No-parking places; parking restricted during certain hours
SCHEDULE I. NO-PARKING PLACES; PARKING RESTRICTED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   (A)   At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any
of the following places except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic
signal:
Street Side Location Ord. No. Date
Street          Side            Location        Ord. No.   Date
Adams Avenue    East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                Between 12th
Adams Avenue    West            and 13th        1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                Streets
Aiken Court     East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Alton Court     East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Ben Court       East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Cavin Avenue    East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Cedar Court     East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Cedar Court     South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
Charles Avenue  East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Chestnut Circle East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Creekside Court East and South                  2008-O-1   2-5-08
Deerpath Circle South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
Deerpath Drive  East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
East Broadway   East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Avenue
Ellis Avenue    East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
English Lane    East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Fossland Avenue East                            2008-O-1   2-5-08
Franklin Avenue East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Fulton Avenue   East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Funderburk      East and South                  1986-O-27  10-7-86
Drive
Garnett Avenue  East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Geddes Avenue   East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Holdridge       East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Avenue
Holdridge                       Between 9th
Avenue          West            Street and Ja-  2015-O-6   3-3-15
                                Lor Court
Ja-Lor Court    East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Kimberly Lane   East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Landon Avenue   East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Mae Court       South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
Mary Avenue     East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Megan Place     East                            2008-O-1   2-5-08
Monroe Avenue   East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
North Avenue    East            Entire length   2013-O-16  9-3-13
                                of the street
                                Between 5th
                                Street and 7th
                                Street, from
                                the hours of 7: 2013-O-16; 9-3-13;
North Avenue    West            00 a.m. to 9:00 2015-O-6   3-3-15
                                a.m. and 2:00
                                p.m. to 4:00
                                p.m. on school
                                days
North Park                      Between
Avenue          East and West   Sheridan Road   1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                and 5th Street
North Park      South           East of Whitney 1986-O-27  10-7-86
Avenue                          Avenue
Oakdale Avenue  East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Old Darby Lane  West                            1992-O-29  12-15-92
                                Between
Old Darby Lane  East            Chesapeake and  2006-O-20  10-17-06
                                State Line Road
Park Avenue     East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Prairie Ridge   East                            2008-O-1   2-5-08
Drive
Rachel Court    South                           2008-O-1   2-5-08
Ravine Drive    East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Runyard Avenue  East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Russell Avenue  East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Sarah Court     South                           2008-O-1   2-5-08
Sheridan Road   East and West                   1986-O-27  10-7-86
Shields Avenue  East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Thomas E.       East                            1989-O-13  5-16-89
Rottman
Thompson Avenue East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Washington      East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Avenue
West Broadway   East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Avenue
West Drive      East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Whitney Avenue  East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
Wilson Avenue   East                            1986-O-27  10-7-86
1st Street      South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
(Russell Road)
2nd Street      South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
3rd Street      South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
4th Street      South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                Between North
5th Street      North           Park Avenue and 1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                Whitney Avenue
5th Street      South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
6th Street      South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                Between North
6th Street      South           Avenue and      2015-O-6   3-3-15
                                Cavin Avenue
                                Between North
6th Street      North           Avenue and      2015-O-6   3-3-15
                                Cavin Avenue
                                Between Fulton
                                Avenue east to
7th Street      North           the Chicago &   1986-O-27  10-7-86
(Main Street)                   Northwestern
                                Railroad right-
                                of-way
                                Between
7th Street      North           Thompson Avenue 2015-O-24  10-20-15
                                and North
                                Avenue
7th Street      North           College to      1990-O-20  8-7-90
                                Kirkwood
7th Street      South           Fulton to       1986-O-27; 10-7-86; 8-7-90
                                Sheridan        1990-O-20
                                East of
8th Street      North           Sheridan Road   1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                (IL Route 173)
                                West of
8th Street      South           Sheridan Road   1987-O-30  9-1-87
                                (IL Route 173)
                                Park Avenue
9th Street      North and South west to village 1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                and corporate
                                limits
9th Street      South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                Between Ellis
                                and Shields
                                Avenues,
                                between 7:00
10th Street     East and West   a.m. and 9:00   2011-O-5   3-1-11
                                a.m. and 2:00
                                p.m. and 4:00
                                p.m., on school
                                days
                                West of
10th Street     North           Sheridan Road   1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                (IL Route 173)
10th Street     South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                Between
                                Sheridan Road
11th Street     North           (IL Route 173   1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                westward to
                                Mary Avenue)
                                East of
11th Street     North           Sheridan Road   1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                (IL Route 173)
11th Street     South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
12th Street     North                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
12th Street     South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                Between Adams
13th Street     North           Avenue and      1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                Monroe Avenue
13th Street     North           East of South   1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                Park Avenue
                                East of
13th Street     North           Sheridan Road   1986-O-27  10-7-86
                                (IL Route 173)
13th Street     South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
14th Street     South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
15th Street     South                           1986-O-27  10-7-86
 
('79 Code, § 1804(2))
   (B)   At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in the
following location or locations for a continuous period of more than four
hours:
         Community Center Parking Lot north of 7th Street, east of Sheridan
Road.
   (C)   There is established a fee-based parking system for vehicles parked in
the METRA station parking lot located west of the Union Pacific rail line and
north of 7th Street, and with respect to that lot, the following regulations
shall apply:
      (1)   No vehicle larger than a standard automobile or single-axle pickup
truck shall be permitted to park in that lot at any time.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle parking in that lot at any
time between 6:00 am and 6:00 pm on any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday (except legal holidays recognized by the state) shall pay a fee in the
amount of$1.75 per day or any part thereof.
      (3)   No fee shall be charged for vehicles parked in that lot at any
other time.
      (4)   In lieu of the daily fee set forth in division (D)(2) hereinabove,
the owner or operator of a vehicle parking in that lot may purchase a parking
pass good for a period of up to six months for a fee of $175.
      (5)   Any vehicle parked in that lot during the times set forth in
division (C)(2) hereinabove shall have proof of payment of the daily fee or
six-month pass by having the receipt or pass set in a location on the front
dash or windshield so that it is readily readable at all such times by village
staff enforcing the provisions of this code.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person found violating any provision of this parking
schedule shall be subject to the penalty provisions set forth in §
72.99.
(Ord. 2009-O-18, passed 9-2-09; Am. Ord. 2015-O-25, passed 11-3-15)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   [RESERVED]
      
92.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION CODE
      
94.   ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
      
95.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; GARBAGE
      
96.   NOISE
      
97.   OUTDOOR EVENTS AND ASSEMBLIES
      
98.   PARKS
      
99.   TAXATION
      
100.   TREES AND SHRUBS; WEEDS
      
101.   RAFFLES AND LOTTERIES
      
102.   BOAT SLIP TAX
      
103.   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL REGULATIONS
      
104.   SMOKING AND VAPING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Keeping livestock and/or fowl
   
90.03   Livestock at large; grazing in streets
   
90.04   Keeping bees
   
90.05   Diseased animals generally
   
90.06   Biting or attacking dogs or other animals
   
90.07   Rabid animals
   
90.08   Running at large
   
90.09   Control of defecation
   
90.10   Inoculation against rabies
   
90.11   Domestic animals disturbing quiet or damaging property
   
90.12   Dogs or cats are prohibited in certain places; exception
   
90.13   When muzzles are required
   
90.14   Tags
   
90.15   Dogs running at large
   
90.16   Maximum numbers of domestic animals
   
90.17   Impounding
   
90.18   Killing dangerous animals
   
90.19   Proclamation requiring muzzling
   
90.20   Injurious species
   
90.21   Regulations for the keeping of domestic hen chickens
 
   
90.99   Penalties
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal other than man which may be affected by rabies.
   BITE OR HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws of an animal
so that the person or animal seized has been nipped or gripped or has been
wounded or pierced and includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of
the skin.
   CAT. All members of the feline family.
   DOG. Any animal, whether male or female, of any kind, age or description of
the canine species which is more than two months old.
   DOG OR CAT AT LARGE. Any dog or cat not under the control of the leash of
the owner or a member of his immediate family over ten years of age. If the
animal is on the owner's property, it is at large if it is not contained on the
property by means of a leash, fence, owner's supervision or other visible means
of restraint to protect pedestrians on city sidewalks or parkways.
   KENNEL OWNER. The owner of six or more dogs at least two months, whether for
pleasure or profit, breeding or exhibiting.
   LEASH. A cord, thong or chain, not more than ten feet in length, by which a
dog or cat is controlled by the person accompanying it.
   LICENSE YEAR. Shall mean the period between the first day of May in any
calendar year and the last day of April in the following year.
   OWNER. Any person who keeps or harbors a dog, cat, dangerous snake,
dangerous reptile, or who has it in his or her car or acts as its custodian or
who knowingly permits it to remain on or about any premises owned or occupied
by him/her for a period of 30 days.
   PATIENT. Any person who has been bitten by an animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society,
association, municipal corporation or political subdivision or any other
business unit.
   VILLAGE. Shall mean the Village of Winthrop Harbor, Illinois.
   WARDEN. Person who is authorized by the Chief of Police to enforce this
chapter.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any mink, muskrat, raccoon, skunk, weasel, bobcat, opossum,
beaver, fox, hawk, eagle, coyote, deer, pheasant, wild turkey, lion, tiger,
bear, or any other animal not civilized, savage, or not easily controlled.
(Ord. 1989-O-37, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. passed 10-16-96)
§ 90.02 KEEPING LIVESTOCK AND/OR FOWL.
   (A)   A minimum of five acres is required to keep any horse, cow, goat, pig,
hog, sheep or other livestock, or any chickens, geese, ducks or other domestic
fowl in the village. Said animals or fowl must be contained within a fenced-in
area which meets with the approval of the Chief of Police and established fence
ordinances. In this section the word “Horse” shall include not only horses,
strictly called, but also ponies, colts, mares and fillies, mules and asses.
   (B)   The maximum number of livestock that may be kept on property is set
forth in the chart below:
 
Animal        Maximum (5-10 acres) Maximum (>10 acres)
horse         6                    6 + 1 per acre for each acre over 10 acres
cow           2                    2 + 1 per every 3 acres over 10 acres
pig or hog    3                    3 + 1 per every 2 acres over 10 acres
sheep or goat 12                   12 + 2 per acre for each acre over 10 acres
 
   (C)   Notwithstanding the generality of the foregoing, the keeping of a
limited number of domestic hen chickens shall be permitted on smaller lots
strictly pursuant to the regulations set forth in §
90.21.
   (D)   Variances to the foregoing regulations may be granted in the sole and
final discretion of the Village Board upon a property owner's petition, and
such notice, conditions or other requirements as the Village Board deems fit.
(Ord. 1989-O-37, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 2015-O-1, passed 2-3-15; Am. Ord.
2015-O-27, passed 12-15-15) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 LIVESTOCK AT LARGE; GRAZING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, horse, swine, sheep, goats or
poultry to run at large in the village. Any such animal running at large in any
public place in the village shall be impounded in the manner provided for dogs.
It shall further be unlawful to picket or tie any such animal in any of the
streets of the village for the purpose of grazing or feeding.
(Ord. 1989-O-37, passed 1-17-89) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 KEEPING BEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain bees in the village
on a lot less than one acre in size and in cases where the land is one acre or
more, the hives cannot be closer than 40 feet to a dwelling.
§ 90.05 DISEASED ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No domestic animal affected with a contagious or infectious disease
shall be allowed to run at large or to be exposed in any public place whereby
the health of man or beast may be affected; nor shall such diseased animals be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof except under the
supervision of the Chief of Police or the Health Officer.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the Health Officer to secure such
disposition of any diseased animal and such treatment of affected premises as
to prevent the communication and spread of infection, except in cases where the
state veterinarian is empowered to act.
(Ord. 1989-O-37, passed 1-17-89) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 BITING OR ATTACKING DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any dog or other animal to
prevent such dog or other animal from biting or attacking any person in the
village, and, if a person is bitten by a dog or other animal, he shall report
the incident to the Police Department immediately. Any dog or other animal
which may unprovokedly bite or attack any person in the village is hereby
declared to be a nuisance, and such dog or animal may be apprehended and
impounded at any time by any police officer, animal warden, or other such
person charged with the enforcement of this chapter. If such dog or other
animal is impounded, the owner shall have no right to redeem the dog or other
animal if:
         (a)   It has unprovokedly attacked or bitten any person or persons in
the village on two separate occasions within any 24-month period; or
         (b)   It has inflicted a serious would or other permanent or disabling
injury in the attack in question.
      (2)   The loss of right to redeem shall not apply if the owner shall
remove such dog or other animal from the village immediately upon redemption
and shall not thereafter keep or otherwise maintain such dog or other animal in
the village at any time.
   (B)   If an owner has notice that his dog or other animal has bitten any
person, it shall be unlawful for such owner to kill such dog or other animal or
to sell or give away such dog or other animal, or to permit or allow such dog
or other animal to be taken beyond the limits of the village except to a
licenses veterinary hospital. It shall be the duty of such owner to immediately
report the incident to the Police Department and to immediately place such a
dog or other animal in a licensed veterinary hospital where such dog or other
animal shall be quarantined for a period of at least ten days (upon request of
any police officer, animal warden or other person charged with the enforcement
of this chapter) and to deliver such animal to them for such placement. The
owner shall immediately furnish the Police Department with the name and
location of said hospital and a certificate of a licensed veterinarian stating
whether or not such dog or animal shows symptoms of rabies. At the expiration
of the quarantine period and prior to the release of such dog or other animal,
the owner shall furnish the Police Department with another certificate of a
licensed veterinarian stating that such dog or other animal does not have
rabies. All costs of maintaining any such dog or other animal in a veterinary
hospital shall be the obligation and responsibility of its owner and shall be
paid by said owner. If, however, the rabies inspector or licensed veterinarian
has presented evidence that such dog or other animal has been inoculated
against rabies within the time prescribed by law prior to the biting, such dog
or other animal shall be confined in the house of its owner or in a manner that
will prohibit such dog or other animal from biting any person for a period of
ten days, unless in the judgement of the rabies or the licensed veterinarian,
circumstances are such that the dog or other animal should be confined
elsewhere. At the end of the ten day period, the dog or other animal shall be
examined by the rabies inspector or a licensed veterinarian.
   (C)   In all cases where the animal that has bitten a person is slain or
dies within ten days from the time of the biting, it shall be the duty of the
person slaying such animal and the owner of such animal to notify the Police
Department and to immediately deliver the head of such animal intact to said
Department or cause the same to be done. Such head shall be sent to the State
Department of Health for examination for rabies.
(Ord. 1989-O-37, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 2004-O-20, passed 10-19-04) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.07 RABID ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal suffering from rabies is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and such dog may be slain by any police officer, animal warden or any other
person charged with the enforcement of this chapter, if same cannot be safely
apprehended and impounded. It shall be the duty of any person keeping or
otherwise maintaining any such animal to place it immediately in a veterinary
hospital or upon demand, to surrender such animal to any police officer, animal
warden or other person charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person who discovers that any animal is
suffering with rabies or that any animal has been bitten by an animal suffering
with rabies to report such fact to the Police Department. Such report shall
give the name if known, and the place of residence of the person keeping or
otherwise maintaining any such animal, the place where the same can be found,
and the license number of any such animal, if known. Any such animal shall be
immediately confined in a veterinary hospital or taken up and impounded and
securely kept until it can be determined whether any such animal is suffering
with rabies.
(Ord. 1989-O-37, passed 1-17-89) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No owner of a dog or cat shall permit or allow any dog or cat kept or
otherwise maintained by him/her to run at large in the village at any time.
   (B)   Any dog or cat which runs at large is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and such dog or cat shall be apprehended and impounded if found running at
large by any police officer, animal warden or other person charged with the
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 1989-O-37, passed 1-17-89) Penalty, see §
90.99
2005 S-14
§ 90.09 CONTROL OF DEFECATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog or cat to
be on private property not owned or possessed by such person unless such person
has in his or her immediate possession a device for the removal of excrement
and a depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon
properties owned or possessed by such person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in control of, causing or
permitting any dog or cat to be on any private property not owned or possessed
by such person to fail to remove excrement left by such dog or cat to a proper
receptacle located on property owned by such person.
(Ord. 1989-O-37, passed 1-17-89) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES.
   Any owner of a dog or cat six months of age or older shall, each year, cause
such dog or cat to be inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and
provide the dog or cat with a collar or harness and attach thereto an official
rabies vaccination tag which shall be worn by the dog or cat at all times;
however, if the vaccine used is one recognized by the State of Illinois
Department of Agriculture, for a three-year period of immunity and the dog or
cat is over 12 months of age at the time of the inoculation, the interval
between inoculations may be extended three years. The type and brand of anti-
rabid vaccine used and the method of inoculation shall be approved by the
Department of Agriculture. Any dog or cat which is not inoculated against
rabies as required herein is hereby declared to be a nuisance and such dog or
cat may be apprehended and impounded upon the order of the Chief of Police.
§ 90.11 DOMESTIC ANIMALS DISTURBING QUIET OR DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner to keep or otherwise maintain a dog, cat
or other domestic animal or pet in the village which shall disturb the quiet of
any person or neighborhood or which shall cause damage to the property of any
person other than its owner.
(Ord. 1989-O-37, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 1999-O-4, passed 1-19-99) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.12 DOGS OR CATS ARE PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES; EXCEPTION.
   The owner of any dog or cat shall not permit or allow such dog or cat to be
or enter upon any church premises, public hall or building, school premises,
restaurant, store, market place, or similar place or any place where food or
drink is commercially dispensed or sold. The provisions of this section shall
not apply to dogs leading blind persons or to dogs and cats at the time they
are being exhibited at pet shows.
(Ord. 1989-O-37, passed 1-17-89) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 WHEN MUZZLES ARE REQUIRED.
   When the Mayor, by proclamation, shall declare that danger from rabies is
great, it shall be unlawful to permit or allow any dog or cat upon the public
street, alleys, or sidewalks or other places unless such dog or cat is securely
muzzled.
§ 90.14 TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog or cat to be on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public place unless such dog or cat has a collar
firmly attached around the neck with a license tag for the current year
attached to such collar.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 90.15 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the
municipality. Any dog found upon any public street, sidewalk, alley, parkway,
or any unenclosed place shall be deeded running at large unless such dog is
firmly held on a leash or is in an enclosed vehicle.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.16 MAXIMUM NUMBERS OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep or otherwise maintain more
dogs, cats or other domestic animals or pets in the village than that person
can reasonably and safely care for.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep more than the following
numbers of domestic animals in his or her home or on his or her property:
      (1)   Cats:       4;
      (2)   Dogs:      4;
      (3)   Rabbits:      4;
      (4)   Pigeons:   8.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) of this section, it
shall not be unlawful for any owner to keep the offspring of a permitted number
of animals up through the point where the offspring shall be weaned at which
time, the owner shall cause the excessive numbers of animals to be sold, given
away or otherwise lawfully and humanely removed from his or her premises.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1999-O-4, passed 1-19-99; Am. Ord. 2001-O-25,
passed 11-6-01)
§ 90.17 IMPOUNDING.
   Any dog found upon any public street, sidewalk, alley, parkway or other
public place running at large, or any dog for which the annual tax has not been
paid as hereinabove provided, shall be impounded by the Police Department. If
such dog shall not have been redeemed within three days after being impounded,
it shall be disposed of in the manner prescribed by the Board of Trustees. Any
dog impounded may be redeemed by the owner upon the payment of a fee of $1 a
day for each day the dog has been impounded, plus a release fee of $5 and
current tax, if the same is unpaid. Such fee shall be paid to the Village Clerk
or to the Pound Master.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 90.18 KILLING DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   The Chief of Police, or any other parson in the village, is authorized to
kill any dangerous animals of any kind when it is necessary for the protection
of any person.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 90.19 PROCLAMATION REQUIRING MUZZLING.
   Whenever danger from hydrophobia or any other communicable disease exists,
the Village President may issue a proclamation requiring that all dogs within
the village be confined to the premises of the owner or person in custody
thereof, or securely muzzled with a good and sufficient muzzle for such time as
may be designated in the proclamation or until otherwise ordered. During the
time covered by such proclamation it shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be
at large anywhere.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 90.20 INJURIOUS SPECIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, propagate, buy, sell, barter
or offer to be bought, sold, bartered, transported, traded, transferred or
loaned to any other person or institution any animal that is listed as a
specimen of an "injurious species" pursuant to the regulations set forth in 17
Ill. Adm. Code Ch. I, § 805, except in strict compliance with the licensing
provisions of that regulation, as it may be in force and effect from time to
time.
(Ord. 2010-O-6, passed 4-6-10) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 REGULATIONS FOR THE KEEPING OF DOMESTIC HEN CHICKENS.
   (A)   Applicability of regulations. The regulations set forth in this
section shall apply to all hen chickens kept on properties other than those
described in §
90.02.
      (1)   Up to eight domestic hen chickens may be kept on properties zoned
and occupied for single- family residential use only.
      (2)   No roosters may be kept within the village, except as may be
allowed under §
90.02.
      (3)   No person shall slaughter any chickens within the village limits,
except for humane reasons.
      (4)   Hens shall be provided with a covered inside enclosure and an
adjacent covered outside fenced area. The outside fenced area shall be no less
than 32 square feet in area.
      (5)   Hen enclosures shall be set back:
         (a)   Thirty feet from any adjacent occupied residential structure,
other than that of the owner of the hens; and
         (b)   In no instance less than the minimum property line setback
required for accessory structures in the applicable zoning district.
      (6)   All enclosures shall be constructed and maintained in such a manner
as to be free of rodent infestations at all times.
      (7)   A building permit shall be required for all enclosures. The permit
fee shall be the same as that for a common garden shed.
      (8)   Electrical service to enclosures, if any, shall be provided by
conduit, and not by extension cord or exposed cable such as Romex, NMB or UF.
      (9)   Hens shall be kept in the enclosure and fenced area at all times.
      (10)   All feed and other items that are associated with the keeping of
hens that are likely to attract or to become infested with rats, mice or other
rodents shall be protected in a container with a tightly fitted lid so as to
prevent rodents from gaining access to or coming into contact with them.
      (11)   No person shall allow chickens to produce noise loud enough to
disturb the peace of persons or reasonable sensitivity, and all such noise is
hereby declared a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for any person to allow
such a nuisance to exist.
   (B)   Registration and violations.
      (1)   All persons keeping chickens in the village shall register with the
Community Development Director prior to acquiring the chickens. Registration
shall be on a form the Director shall provide. Registration forms shall not be
accepted until the enclosure has passed a final inspection by the Building
Department.
      (2)   The registration form shall include written permission for any
Building Department staff member or Community Service Officer to access the
yards of the residence for the purpose of verifying compliance with these
regulations from time to time. The form shall further acknowledge receipt of a
copy of the standards set forth in division (A) of this section by the
registrant.
      (3)   There shall be no fee charged for registration, although the
enclosure may require a building permit and fee as described in division (A) of
this section.
      (4)   Failure to notify the Community Development Director as required
hereinabove shall constitute a violation of this Code.
      (5)   Violation of any standard set forth in division (A) of this section
shall constitute a violation of this Code.
      (6)   Each day that a violation of any standard set forth in division (A)
of this section shall constitute separate offenses.
      (7)   Three violations of this Code which occur on a property within any
12 month period shall result in the loss of permission to keep hens on the
property.
      (8)   Keeping hens following loss of permission to keep hens shall
constitute violations of this Code and shall subject the owner to double the
fines otherwise applicable to violations of the regulations set forth in this
section.
   (C)   Covenants and health code issues.
      (1)   Nothing in this section is intended to modify, supercede,
subordinate to or otherwise affect any private covenants that may appertain to
any property.
      (2)   Nothing in this section is intended to modify, supercede,
subordinate to or otherwise affect any health code rules, regulations or orders
which may be in effect under the Lake County Health Codes.
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   See §
39.07 for the schedule of fines applicable to this section.
      (2)   In addition to the fines so prescribed for violations, the village
shall have the right to obtain injunctive relief, including temporary
restraining orders and preliminary injunctions when a nuisance is permitted to
exist and the property owner fails to promptly abate the same.
      (3)   In any injunction action, the village shall be entitled to an award
of its attorney's fees and costs as a part of any judgment.
(Ord. 2015-O-1, passed 2-3-15)
§ 90.99 PENALTIES.
   Whoever violates the following series of code sections shall be fined
pursuant to the chart set forth hereinbelow:
Offense Section Number        1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
§
90.06,                        $200        $300        $400
90.20
§                            $50         $100        $200
90.08
§                            $50         $100        $200
90.09
§                            $100        $100        $100
90.10
§                            $25         $25         $50
90.11
§                            $50         $100        $100
90.15
All other sections of chapter $100        $200        $400
 
(Ord. 1989-O-37, passed 1-17-89; Am. Ord. 1995-O-13, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord.
1999-O-3, passed 1-19-99; Am. Ord. 2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord. 2010-O-6,
passed 4-6-10)
CHAPTER 91: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 92: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
Section
   
92.01   Establishment; purpose
   
92.02   Functions; duties
   
92.03   Members—appointment; terms
   
92.04   Coordinator—responsibilities
   
92.05   Emergency operations plan
   
92.06   Disaster declaration
   
92.07   Mobile support teams
   
92.08   Mutual aid agreements
   
92.09   Cooperation with state agency
   
92.10   Compensation
   
92.11   Funding
   
92.12   Oath required
   
92.13   Emergency Operations Center—location
   
92.14   Disaster warning devices—testing required
   
92.15   Sheltering—civil immunity
   
92.16   Municipal immunity
CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION
§ 92.01 ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby created the Village of Winthrop Harbor Emergency Management
Agency (EMA) to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage
resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile
action, or from natural or manmade disaster, in accordance with the Illinois
Emergency Management Act (ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq.) and FEMA CPG
101, V.2 (2010), and any successor thereto.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.02 FUNCTIONS; DUTIES.
   The EMA shall perform such emergency management functions within the village
as shall be prescribed in and by the State of Illinois EMA plan and program
prepared by the Governor of Illinois, and such orders, rules and regulations as
may be promulgated by the Governor. In addition, the EMA shall perform such
duties outside the corporate limits as may be required, availability of
manpower permitting, pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other
municipalities, quasi-municipalities or political subdivisions of the State of
Illinois as provided in the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.03 MEMBERS—APPOINTMENT; TERMS.
   (A)   The EMA shall consist of the Coordinator, Assistant Coordinator and
such other members as may be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Village
Board of Trustees pursuant to the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
   (B)   EMA members of the Village of Winthrop Harbor EMA shall be appointed
by the Mayor and approved by the Village Board of Trustees for one-year terms
expiring on April 30 of each year, provided that a member whose term has
expired shall continue to serve until his or her successor is appointed and
confirmed. EMA members may be village employees, elected officials or members
of the community with knowledge of emergency management operations.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.04 COORDINATOR—RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Coordinator and Assistant Coordinator shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, training, and operation of
the EMA subject to the direction and control of the Mayor or his or her
designee as provided by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
   (B)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
of the Coordinator, the Mayor or any person designated by him or her shall
serve and act as Coordinator on an interim basis with full powers to act until
a new appointment is made and confirmed as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The Coordinator shall execute the orders, rules and regulations as may
be made by the Governor or the Director of the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency under the authority of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
   (D)   In the event of enemy attack, civil unrest, weather emergency or other
disaster, the Coordinator of the EMA, upon approval of the Mayor or his or her
designee is authorized on behalf of the village to procure such services,
supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.05 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   By resolution duly adopted, taking into consideration the recommendations of
the EMA Coordinator and the Village Attorney, the village shall maintain and
update as necessary an emergency operations plan which describes the functions
of the village and supporting services for responding to and recovering from
disasters and shall take into account the needs of those individuals with
household pets and service animals following a major disaster or emergency in
accordance with the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.06 DISASTER DECLARATION.
   A local disaster may be declared in the village only by the Mayor or his or
her interim emergency successor as provided in § 7 of the “Emergency Interim
Executive Succession Act.” It shall not be continued or renewed for a period in
excess of seven days except by the consent of the Village Board of Trustees.
Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local
disaster shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed
promptly with the Village Clerk in accordance with the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act. The effect of the declaration of a local disaster is to
activate the emergency operations plan and to authorize the furnishing of aid
and assistance to mitigate said disaster.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.07 MOBILE SUPPORT TEAMS.
   The Governor or Director of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA)
may cause to be created mobile support teams to aid and to reinforce IEMA and
emergency management agencies in areas stricken by disaster. Members of the
Village of Winthrop Harbor EMA may be designated to serve as members of a
statewide mobile support team and will be coordinated through the EMA
Coordinator for the village. Provisions for compensation, expenses and injury
coverage are provided for within the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.08 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   The EMA Coordinator, by direction of the Mayor, may negotiate mutual aid
agreements with other municipalities, quasi-municipalities or political
subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be effective until it
has been approved by the Mayor and the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.09 COOPERATION WITH STATE AGENCY.
   In the event the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the
event of actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within
the state of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile
action, or from civil unrest, or from man-made or natural disaster, it shall be
the duty of the EMA to cooperate fully with the IEMA and with the Governor in
the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.10 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the EMA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the State Coordinator, shall receive for the time spent
in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to his or her employment
or office with the EMA. Those members, who are not village employees or
officers, shall receive for such training time such compensation as may be
established by the Mayor with the approval of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.11 FUNDING.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incidental to training
members of the EMA as prescribed by the State Coordinator, compensation for
services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving outside
the village in response to a call by the Governor or State Coordinator, as
provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incidental to
EMA activities as provided by law.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.12 OATH REQUIRED.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the EMA organization
shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the following oath,
which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
      “I, ________________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and during such
time as I am affiliated with the Village of Winthrop Harbor EMA, I will not
advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence.”
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.13 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER—LOCATION.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a village building, or
elsewhere, for the Village of Winthrop Harbor Emergency Operations Center
(EOC).
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.14 DISASTER WARNING DEVICES—TESTING REQUIRED.
   Testing of “outdoor warning devices” shall be held only on the first Tuesday
of each month at 10:00 o'clock in the morning or during exercises that are
specifically and expressly approved in advance by the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.15 SHELTERING—CIVIL IMMUNITY.
   Any person owning or controlling real estate of other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants a license or privilege, or
otherwise permits the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of
such real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an
actual or impending disaster or an exercise together with his or her successors
in interest, if any, shall not be civilly liable for negligently causing the
death of, or injury to, any person on or about such real estate or premises
under such license, privilege or other permit, or for negligently causing loss
of, or damage to, the property of such person except in the event of willful
misconduct.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
§ 92.16 MUNICIPAL IMMUNITY.
   The village, except in cases of gross negligence or willful misconduct while
engaged in any emergency management response or recovery activities, while
complying with or attempting to comply with the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency Act or any rule or regulations promulgated pursuant to the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency Act shall not be liable for the death of or any
injury to persons, damage to property, as a result of such activity.
(Ord. 24-O-10, passed 5-21-24)
CIVIL EMERGENCY
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute by three or more persons acting
together without authority to law; or
      (2) Any natural disaster or man-made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing, or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property, or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village, except
officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty
with reference to said civil emergency.
('79 Code, § 1912(1))
§ 92.21 PROCLAMATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an emergency as defined in §
92.20 exists, the President shall declare its existence by means of a written
declaration setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency.
('79 Code, § 1912(2))
§ 92.22 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the President, he may order a
general curfew applicable to certain geographical areas of the village or to
the village as a whole as he deems advisable, applicable during such hours of
the day or night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and
welfare.
('79 Code, § 1912(3))
§ 92.23 AUTHORITY OF VILLAGE PRESIDENT DURING EMERGENCY.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the President may also in the
interest of public safety and welfare make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted.
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing, or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition or explosives of any character
whatsoever.
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
('79 Code, § 1912(4))
§ 92.24 DURATION.
   The proclamation authorized under §
92.21 shall be effective for a period of 48 hours unless
sooner terminated by a proclamation of the President indicating that the civil
emergency no longer exists. The President shall have the power to re-proclaim
the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each 48-hour period during the
time the civil emergency exists.
('79 Code, § 1912(5))
§ 92.25 NOTICE.
   Upon issuing the proclamation authorized under §
92.21, the Chief of Police shall notify the news media serving the village, and
shall cause three copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the
emergency to be posted at the following places within the village: The Village
Hall, the Police Station, and the Post Office.
('79 Code, § 1912(6))
§ 92.26 POWERS OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this Code of Ordinances giving power to the Police and Fire
Departments, but shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in
effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the village.
('79 Code, § 1912(9))
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or any executive order
issued pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of an offense against the
village and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500.
('79 Code, § 1912(7))
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Adoption of national codes by reference
   
93.02   Duties of the Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
93.03   Fee and permit schedule
Explosives and Fireworks
   
93.10   Explosives
   
93.11   Fireworks
Fire Prevention Systems
   
93.20   Definitions
   
93.21   Fire alarm systems
   
93.22   Sprinkler systems required
   
93.23   Automatic dialer systems
   
93.24   Local alarms
Construction Requirements
   
93.30   Building plans
   
93.31   Standpipes required
   
93.32   Rapid key entry systems required
   
93.33   Smoke detectors
   
93.34   Carbon monoxide detectors
   
93.35   Tampering with detectors prohibited
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
93.45   Marina refueling operations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL CODES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following national regulations are hereby adopted and incorporated
by reference as if fully set forth herein:
      (1)   International Fire Code adopted. The 2006 International Fire Code
of the International Code Council is hereby adopted as the basic Fire
Prevention Code of the village; and each of all of the regulations, penalties,
conditions, and terms of the 2006 International Fire Code are hereby referred
to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter.
      (2)   The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) No. 101 Life Safety
Code 2015 Edition and the most current publication of the remaining NFPA
standards as deemed necessary by the Fire Department.
   (B)   These regulations, as adopted herein, shall be known as the Winthrop
Harbor Fire Prevention Code.
   (C)   The purpose and the intent of the Winthrop Harbor Fire Prevention Code
is to prescribe minimum requirements and controls to safeguard life, property,
or public welfare from the hazards of fire and explosion arising from the
storage, handling, or use of substances, materials, or devices and from
conditions hazardous to life, property, or public welfare in the use or
occupancy of buildings, structures, sheds, tents, lots, or premises.
Accordingly, this Code shall be interpreted broadly to the maximum extent
permissible under applicable state and federal law.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24)
§ 93.02 DUTIES OF THE BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers assigned to the Bureau of Fire
Prevention to enforce all laws and ordinances of the village covering the
following:
      (1)   The prevention of fires.
      (2)   The storage and use of explosives and flammables.
      (3)   The installation and maintenance of automatic and other fire alarm
systems and fire extinguishing equipment.
      (4)   The means and adequacy of exit, in case of fire, from factories,
schools, hotels, lodging houses, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters,
amphitheaters and all other places in which numbers of persons work, live or
congregate, from time to time, for any purpose.
      (5)   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes.
      (6)   The investigation of the causes, origins and circumstances of
fires.
      (7)   An annual fire inspection shall be required for all properties
within the village except residential occupancies consisting of three units or
less. Scheduled inspections that result in a No Call/No Show to allow access
for the scheduled inspection shall result in a fee of $25 for each missed
inspection after two or more.
      (8)   The Fire Chief shall have the sole power and discretion to waive
the fee for No Call/No Show set forth hereinabove for good cause shown.
   (B)   Bureau members shall also have such other powers and perform such
other duties as are set forth in this subchapter and as may be conferred and
imposed from time to time by law. The Fire Chief may delegate any of his or her
powers or duties under this subchapter to a duly designated Fire Marshal.
Residential occupancy inspections will be coordinated with the village’s rental
inspection program if one is then in existence.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24)
§ 93.03 FEE AND PERMIT SCHEDULE.
   The Fire Chief shall maintain a fee and permit schedule in the main office
of the Fire Department. The Fire Chief shall propose fees for the matters under
the jurisdiction of the Department to the Village Board on at least a biennial
basis. The Village Board shall consider the same and adopt such proposed fees
that they deem appropriate and necessary in their sole discretion by way of
resolution. The Fire Chief shall make such schedule available to all persons
upon request.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24)
EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS
§ 93.10 EXPLOSIVES.
   Explosive regulations are governed by the provisions of the standard codes
adopted by reference in § 93.01(A) and the rules set forth therein shall be
strictly enforced in all instances.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24)
§ 93.11 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Adoption. Pursuant to the authority and in accordance with the
provisions of ILCS Ch. 425, Act 35, § 2 and all other applicable police powers
and authority, the village hereby adopts in its entirety the Illinois
Pyrotechnic Use Act, ILCS Ch. 425, Act 35, §§ 0.01 et seq., as it currently
exists, and as it may hereafter be amended, together with any and all
regulations duly adopted by the Office of the State Fire Marshall pursuant to
the authority so vested in that Office by ILCS Ch. 425, Act 35, § 4.1 and the
same are adopted as ordinance provisions of the village. Any ticket or
complaint charging a violation of the provisions of the Pyrotechnic Use Act
incorporated herein may note that the offense is being charged as a violation
of municipal law but may also describe the specific offense using the statutory
section number from the Pyrotechnic Use Act.
   (B)   No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics shall be given
unless a permit therefor is first secured from the Fire Chief with the express
approval of the Board of Trustees. All such public displays shall be under the
supervision of one or more persons duly licensed pursuant to ILCS Ch. 425, Act
35, § 2.1 and the site shall be supervised by the Fire Chief or some member of
the Fire Department assigned to the duty.
   (C)   Penalty. Any violation of the provisions of the Pyrotechnic Use Act
shall hereafter be considered a violation of this chapter and each such
violation shall subject the violator thereof to the penalty provisions provided
in the Illinois Pyrotechnic Use Act, up to and including a class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24)
FIRE PREVENTION SYSTEMS
§ 93.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM HOLDER. The owner, lessee or other person responsible for the presence
or maintenance of an alarm system within or on a premises.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment devices designed to signal the
presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention and to which police and/or fire
personnel are expected to respond. Such an alarm system may include BURGLAR,
HOLDUP or FIRE ALARMS and any system designed to monitor water flow, smoke,
temperature, humidity or other like conditions. Included are internal premises
systems with an audible sound and/or flashing lights or beacons designed to
signal persons outside the premises.
   AUTHORIZED CENTRAL RECEIVING STATION. An office or place duly authorized by
the village as a receiver of alarm transmissions to which alarms are connected
and where operators supervise or monitor such alarms and immediately and
automatically send a data transmission of said alarm to the village’s dispatch
center.
   AUTOMATIC DIALER. An alarm system which automatically transmits over regular
telephone lines (as distinguished from dedicated telephone lines) a pre-
recorded voice message or coded signal indicating the existence of an emergency
situation.
   BURGLAR ALARM. An alarm system activated automatically signaling an entry or
attempted entry into a building or vehicle protected by the alarm system.
   DEDICATED TELEPHONE LINE. A telephone line which has its sole use the
transmission of an alarm signal.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal which indicates the existence of an emergency
situation when in fact, no such emergency exists.
   FEES. The monies paid by an alarm holder to connect his alarm system to the
central answering point at village facilities.
   FIRE ALARM. Any automatic or manual system installed in any commercial or
industrial structure and any residential structure with greater than two
dwelling units within the village, installed to detect the presence of fire or
its by-products and alert the buildings occupants by visual and audible means
of the presence of a fire.
   FIRE ALARM USER. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind in control of the property protected by a
fire alarm.
   LOCAL ALARM. An alarm system which when activated causes an audible and/or
visual signal in or on the premises which the system is designed to protect.
Such type of alarm may or may not be a part of a system to notify an answering
point.
   SERVICE CHARGE. An assessment by the village against an alarm holder for
false alarms emitted from this alarm system as provided §§ 91.02 through 91.99.
   TROUBLE INDICATION. A transmitted signal different from the alarm signal
which indicates a mechanical/electrical problem in the system.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24)
§ 93.21 FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Enforcement. The Fire Chief or his or her designee shall have the
responsibility for enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Fire alarm connections.
      (1)   Required connections. It shall be unlawful to install, modify, or
upgrade any fire alarm system or component thereof as described in this
subchapter, without first obtaining approval of the Fire Marshal. This approval
is separate from any other permit required by the village for any new
construction, remodel, repair or alteration of any building. All fire alarm
systems in any commercial or industrial structure and any residential structure
with greater than two dwelling units, that automatically transmit the presence
of an alarm to any central receiving station, shall be tied to an approved
central answering station chosen by the alarm holder and approved by the Fire
Department’s Fire Marshal in accordance with the requirements of the adopted
edition of National Fire Protection Association, Standard 72 (National Fire
Alarm Code), International Fire Code, National Fire Protection Standard 70
(National Electrical Code) and the village’s municipal code.
         (a)   New buildings shall comply with the requirements of this chapter
before the building is occupied or used for any other purpose other than its
construction.
         (b)   Any existing structure other than residential buildings with
less than four dwelling units shall add a fire alarm system for the entire
structure regardless of building separation, fire-rated assemblies and type of
construction, at any time that any addition, major renovation (50% or more), or
expansion of the structure increases the gross square footage of the structure
as it existed on January 1, 2003 by 2,500 square feet or more.
         (c)   The status of all fire alarm systems required by this section
shall be monitored continuously through a method approved by the Fire
Department’s Fire Marshal. Phone lines shall not be an approved method of
transmitting fire alarm systems. Wireless technology is preferred.
         (d)   Automated secure alarm protocol (ASAP) technology may be
utilized dependent on the Village of Winthrop Harbor’s Dispatch Center’s CAD
vendor and capabilities.
      (2)   Permit. No person shall be authorized to install, connect, or
maintain an alarm system under this code whether within the corporate limits of
the village, the Fire District or from an adjoining municipality, municipality
or county which has entered into a communications services agreement with the
village without first obtaining approval and a permit from the Fire Marshal. An
applicant for a license or a permit shall furnish satisfactory proof to the
Fire Marshal that he or she is familiar with the materials used in the activity
for which the license or permit is required, that he or she is competent to do
and perform all acts necessary or incidental to such activity as may be
required by this chapter; and that he or she is familiar with and knows the
application of the requirements of the provisions of the fire prevention codes
of the village. If the Fire Marshal determines that the applicant for any such
license or permit conforms in all particulars with these requirements, the Fire
Marshal shall give his or her approval to the issuance of such license or
permit.
         (a)   The permit application shall be on a fire alarm user
registration form prescribed by the Fire Department. In addition, all
applicants shall agree as follows:
            1.   To enter into a subscription agreement with a central
receiving station approved by the Fire Marshal.
            2.   That the village shall not be held liable for any claimed
failure of service or any damages that may result from the installation,
maintenance or operation of the alarm system which is and shall remain entirely
the alarm holder’s responsibility.
            3.   To indemnify, defend and save harmless the village from all
claims, demands, judgments, liability, costs and expenses that may arise, in
anyway as a result of the alarm connection.
            4.   That the alarm subscriber, not the village, is liable for any
and all costs or expenses of installation, lease, maintenance, service or any
other charges or fees for any alarm equipment leased or owned by the applicant.
            5.   Submit a fee as identified in the Fee and Permit Schedule
maintained by the Fire Chief prior to a permit being issued by the Fire
Marshal.
            6.   Upon final acceptance of the fire alarm system, a certificate
of acceptance will be issued to the alarm holder. The certificate of acceptance
sticker shall be affixed on the fire alarm panel by the Fire Marshal at time of
testing and approval.
         (b)   All applicants must certify that they have alarm system
maintenance provided on a 24-hour basis.
         (c)   All alarm systems connecting under this code shall be subject to
inspection for compatibility by the Fire Marshal and/or the Fire Department at
any time they deem necessary or advisable. All fire alarm users shall allow the
Fire Marshal and/or the Fire Department access to the premises upon which the
fire alarm systems are installed, for the purpose of inspection, during regular
business hours.
         (d)   The central receiving station must be able to transmit
identifying remarks related to the source signal and required response as
defined by the Fire Marshal. An example would be identifying the alarm location
as a “target hazard.”
         (e)   A redundant means of confirming alarm transmission to the
Dispatch Center shall be maintained by the authorized central answering
station.
      (3)   Equipment. In addition to any other requirement under the code, all
alarms connected herein shall bear Factory Mutual, Underwriters’ Laboratories,
Inc., or equivalent labels.
      (4)   Connection and maintenance fees. All connection and maintenance
fees shall be in accordance with the Fee and Permit Schedule maintained by the
Fire Chief.
      (5)   Issuance. Upon compliance with all the requirements of this
division (B), the Fire Marshal shall issue a permit.
      (6)   Testing of equipment. All fire alarm subscribers shall submit proof
of a successful test of their system by a licensed alarm contractor annually.
Each fire alarm user is solely responsible for the installation, maintenance,
repair, upkeep and operation of his or her own fire alarm system. All fire
alarm systems covered under this subchapter shall be tested and system
components cleaned annually by a licensed alarm contractor. Documentation of
the fire alarm system testing and maintenance shall be submitted to the Fire
Marshal within 14 days of such testing/cleaning. No person shall conduct any
test or demonstration of any permitted fire alarm system without first having
notified the Fire Department and the monitoring location, and if unable to
contact, then the 911 dispatch center shall be notified of the test or
demonstration. When a fire alarm system is out of service for any reason, the
Fire Marshal, or his or her designee, may, at their sole discretion, require
the fire alarm user to implement a fire watch at the user’s expense until such
time as the fire alarm system is back in service.
      (7)   Disconnection and reconnection.
         (a)   Causes for disconnection from an authorized central receiving
station.
            1.   Failure to pay any fees, maintenance charges, or service
charges required by this subchapter shall be cause for the Fire Marshal to
request disconnection of an alarm system after 60 days’ notice.
            2.   Twelve false alarms from any one alarm system within any 12-
month period shall be cause for the Fire Marshal to request disconnection of an
alarm system after 60 days’ notice.
            3.   Six or more trouble indications within any 12-month period
shall be cause for the Fire Marshal to request disconnection of an alarm system
after 60 days’ notice.
            4.   The alarm holder shall be responsible for any cost or charge
arising from the disconnection.
            5.   If a given fire alarm system is found to be unsatisfactory or
in improper working order, the Fire Marshal may require that the system be
disconnected until such time as corrections are made. The Fire Marshal or
designee may require a fire watch should a disconnection be required. Any fire
alarm placed out-of-service pursuant to this section must be repaired and
placed back in service within a time period specified by the Fire Marshal,
provided however, that the fire alarm user may, in accordance with all
applicable state, local and federal laws, determine not to reinstall or repair
said system. Should the fire alarm user determine not to repair the system, all
components of the fire alarm system shall be removed from the premises, and a
written notice shall be given to the Fire Marshal advising of this change
within 14 days thereof.
            6.   Should a fire alarm user terminate its contract with a central
receiving station a written notice shall be given to the Fire Marshal advising
of this change within 14 days thereof.
         (b)   Reconnection.
            1.   If an alarm system has been disconnected because of nonpayment
of any fees or charges, upon payment in full of all outstanding fees and
charges, the alarm system may be reconnected.
            2.   If an alarm has been disconnected for trouble indications, the
alarm holder must submit a written statement indicating that repairs have been
made to correct the mechanical/electrical problem in the system. After
verification that the system is properly functioning, the alarm system may be
reconnected.
            3.   If the alarm system has been disconnected because of false
alarms, the alarm holder must submit a written statement indicating the reasons
for the false alarms and stating what measures have been taken to prevent or
minimize future false alarms. Upon review of the statement, the alarm system
may be reconnected at the discretion of the village.
            4.   The alarm holder shall be responsible for any cost or charge
arising from the reconnection.
   (C)   Another central answering point. In addition to making the required
fire alarm system connections pursuant to this code, nothing shall prohibit the
connection of any alarm system to a secondary central answering point.
   (D)   Misuses of fire alarm systems and false alarms.
      1.   Misuse of alarms. It is unlawful for any person to activate an alarm
system for any purpose other than that which the alarm system was originally
designed to detect.
      2.   False alarms. Alarms resulting from any of the following causes
shall not be considered to be a false alarm as that term is defined in this
subchapter provided that such event is verified by the Fire Marshal.
         (a)   A fire causing structural damage to the protected premises.
         (b)   An earthquake affecting the village.
         (c)   A tornado or hurricane affecting the village.
         (d)   Flooding of the protected premises.
         (e)   Lightning causing physical damage to the protected premises.
         (f)   Telephone line malfunction verified to the Fire Marshal by an
authorized telephone company supervisor within seven days of the occurrence.
         (g)   Electrical service interruption verified to the Fire Marshal by
an authorized electric company supervisor within seven days of the occurrence.
         (h)   Plumbing or electrical malfunctions unrelated to the alarm
system at the protected premises.
      (3)   Grace period. Fire alarm users shall be granted a 30-day grace
period from the date of final acceptance testing before alarms emanating from
the protected premises shall be deemed to be false alarms.
      (4)   Out-of-service alarms. A fire alarm which gives three or more false
alarms within a 12-hour period may be considered by the Fire Marshal to be in
improper working order and removed from service until repaired. Twelve false
alarms from any one alarm system within any 12-month period shall be cause for
the Fire Marshal to request disconnection of an alarm system after 60 days’
notice.
   (E)   Penalty. Penalties for misuse of alarms or false alarms shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $750 per violation to be imposed as follows:
      (1)   For the first three false alarms in any 12-month period, no fine
may be assessed, unless the Fire Marshal shows willful and wanton misconduct on
the part of the fire alarm user, his or her employees or agents.
      (2)   For a fourth and fifth false alarm in any 12-month period, a fine
of $85 shall be assessed for each Fire Department response thereto.
      (3)   For a sixth and seventh false alarm in any 12-month period, a fine
of $110 shall be assessed for each Fire Department response thereto.
      (4)   For an eighth and ninth false alarm in any 12-month period, a fine
of $220 shall be assessed for each Fire Department response thereto.
      (5)   For a tenth false alarm and for each and every succeeding false
alarm in any 12-month period, a fine of $330 shall be assessed for each Fire
Department response thereto.
      (6)   For any false alarm emanating from a fire alarm user who has not
received a permit or certificate of acceptance from the Fire Marshal for the
operation of a fire alarm system in the village, a fine of $550 shall be
assessed for each and every false alarm until the system has been authorized
and a permit issued.
      (7)   The village may file a lien against the protected premises for any
outstanding fine which is reduced to judgment.
      (8)   Any person issued a citation under this section shall have the
right to seek a hearing in front of the village’s duly appointed adjudication
hearing officer. In such a hearing, the person seeking the hearing shall have
the burden of proof.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24)
§ 93.22 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Sprinkler systems shall be installed in all use groups as required by
§ 903 of the 2006 International Fire Code and as required by the NFPA 2006 Life
Safety Code. Any residential structure with two or more dwelling units shall
have an automatic fire sprinkler system installed prior to occupancy.
   (B)   Remodeling. Any existing structure other than residential buildings
with less than four dwelling units shall add an automatic fire sprinkler system
for the entire structure regardless of building separation, fire-rated
assemblies and type of construction, at any time that any addition, expansion,
or commercial major renovation (50% or more) of the structure increases the
gross square footage of the structure as it existed on January 1, 2003 by 2,500
square feet or more.
   (C)   Strobe lights required. A white strobe light shall be installed on all
residences protected by an automatic sprinkler system. The strobe shall be
placed directly over the Fire Department connection in addition to the required
ten-inch bell. The strobe light shall be clearly visible from the Fire
Department’s normal access route. A horn/strobe light combination device may be
installed in place of the ten-inch bell at the discretion of the Fire
Department.
   (D)   Connection required. All automatic sprinkler systems shall be
connected to the Winthrop Harbor Police/Fire Dispatch Center by direct
connection. In the event of the activation of any such system, an alarm shall
sound on the premises and an alarm shall be transmitted to the Dispatch Center
in order to alert the Fire Department.
   (E)   Compliant systems. At all times, the Fire Department shall maintain a
list of commercially available and approved automatic sprinkler systems, and
shall freely distribute such list to all building owners and occupants upon
request. The Fire Department shall not recommend any particular system or be
required to provide any engineering or design services, but shall review all
submitted plans prior to installation as part of the building permit approval
process to ensure compliance with this section.
   (F)   Maintenance. All automatic sprinkler systems must remain operational
and in good working order at all times.
   (G)   Liability. All owners of structures regulated under this section shall
have a non-delegable duty to ensure that all such sprinklers remain operational
and in good working order at all times. All building tenants and occupants,
other than residential apartment dwellers, have a joint and several duty with
the building owner to ensure that all such sprinklers remain operational and in
good working order at all times.
   (H)   Controlled areas. All buildings required to have sprinklers under this
section shall have sprinklers installed in all living areas and all common
areas of the structure, including, but not limited to, hallways, vestibules,
storage rooms, entryways, laundry rooms and attached garages.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 AUTOMATIC DIALER SYSTEMS.
   Upon the effective date of this chapter the connection of any automatic
dialer alarm system to any village facility is prohibited except by permit
through the designated digital alarm receiving equipment for police and fire
alarms at the remote receiving facility in the appropriate department of the
village. The issuance of any such permit shall be at the sole discretion of the
remote receiving facility, which may set all terms and conditions for such
permit.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 LOCAL ALARMS.
   (A)   Local alarms shall not transmit an audible sound which is similar to
or imitates emergency vehicles or the village’s severe weather alerting system.
   (B)   Local alarms emitting audible sound shall have an automatic shut off
which will deactivate the signal after one-half hour. The Police and/or Fire
Departments may enter the premises to deactivate a signal which is not shut off
within one-half hour activation. Such action shall be taken only after
reasonable efforts to contact the alarm holder have been made. Neither the
village nor its employees shall be liable for any damages resulting from such
action.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 93.30 BUILDING PLANS.
   The owners or developers of all new buildings, other than single-family
detached residences, shall provide three sets of blueprints to be submitted for
final review. No construction permit or occupancy permit shall be granted for
any building regulated hereunder until such plans are provided and accepted.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.31 STANDPIPES REQUIRED.
   All newly constructed buildings other than detached single-family homes
having floors used for human occupancy located two or more stories above grade
shall be equipped with standpipes prior to occupancy. Hoses shall not be
required. The standpipes shall have connections at grade level approved by the
Fire Department or its designee. All standpipe systems shall be hydrostatically
tested at five-year intervals or any shorter term designated by the NFPA.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.32 RAPID KEY ENTRY SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   All structures which are currently equipped with, or which are
required under this code to be equipped with, a fire alarm system, sprinkler
system or fire extinguishing system, or wherein materials are stored that the
Fire Chief deems to pose such a threat to human health and safety and risk of
property damage as to require entry to such structure prior to the arrival of
the owner or other key holder, shall be equipped with a Knox brand rapid entry
key box, which box shall be installed after consultation with the Fire Chief or
the Chief’s designee regarding the size and location of such box.
   (B)   In addition to those structures described in division (A) of this
section, all apartment buildings with four or more units and that have common
entrances or exits shall be equipped with Knox boxes as described above.
   (C)   All existing structures which are required to have rapid entry boxes
under this section shall have them fully installed not later than June 30,
2024.
   (D)   No building or structure erected to remodeled hereafter which shall be
required to have a rapid entry box shall receive a certificate of occupancy
from the village unless and until the rapid entry box is fully installed.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.33 SMOKE DETECTORS.
   The village strictly enforces all statutes and regulations regarding smoke
detectors, including, but not limited to the Illinois Smoke Detector Act, ILCS
Ch. 425, Act 60, §§ 1 et seq., and the Facilities Requiring Smoke Detectors
Act, ILCS Ch. 425, Act 10, §§ 0.01 et seq., together with all regulations
adopted thereunder, and together with all related regulations in the standard
codes adopted by reference in §
93.01 of this code.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24)
§ 93.34 CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS.
   The village strictly enforces all statutes and regulations regarding carbon
monoxide detectors, including, but not limited to the Illinois Carbon Monoxide
Alarm Detector Act, ILCS Ch. 430, Act 135, § 1 et seq., together with all
regulations adopted thereunder, and together with all related regulations in
the standard codes adopted by reference in §
93.01 of this code.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24)
§ 93.36 TAMPERING WITH DETECTORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner, manager, occupant or any other person to
vandalize or tamper with the smoke detectors, or in any way render smoke
detectors or carbon monoxide detectors inoperative or to cause them to be
impaired in their ability to detect and give early warning of smoke or fire.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24) Penalty, see § 93.99
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 93.45 MARINA REFUELING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   All refueling operations or service stations at any marina or harbor
shall be of the attended type only. Self-service for the pumping of any fuels
shall be prohibited. It is also prohibited for any boater, marina operator,
employee or any other person to use or allow the use of any holdopen clip or
device of any type, to be used to hold open the nozzle of any fuel pump.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) above shall be
liable for any and all direct and indirect costs incurred by the village in
cleaning any spilled petrochemical into any body of water within the
territorial boundary of the village, in addition to any fines and penalties
imposed by law.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person that is adjudged guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter for which no other penalty has been provided shall be guilty of an
offense against the village, punishable by a fine of not less than $100 and not
more than $750.
(Ord. 2024-O-5, passed 3-19-24)
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Abandonment unlawful
   
94.03   Notification of Police Department
   
94.04   Towing authorized
   
94.05   Record of vehicle towed
   
94.06   Search of state motor vehicle records for identity of owner
   
94.07   Reclaiming possession
   
94.08   Disposition of unclaimed vehicles
   
94.09   Records to be kept for one year
   
94.10   Proceeds from disposition of unclaimed vehicles
   
94.11   Storage of inoperable vehicles required
   
94.12   Waiver of liability
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley, or public way within the village.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE or DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is without
current valid license plates and/or in either wrecked, discarded, dismantled,
inoperative or abandoned condition.
   JUNKED VEHICLE or DISABLED VEHICLE. Any travel trailer, any camper, any
motor home, any tent or camping trailer, any motor home or camper box, any
boat, car, or other type of trailer, or any boat, hover craft, or license
plates and/or in either wrecked, discarded, dismantled, inoperative or
abandoned condition.
   VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, bus, or similar vehicle designed for
operation on public highways.
   VEHICLES, INOPERABLE. Any vehicle in its present state which is incapable of
being operated on a public highway and has remained in such state for a period
of 30 days.
('79 Code, § 1808(1)) (Ord. 1983-O-20, passed 9-6-83)
§ 94.02 ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL.
   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on
any highway in this village is unlawful except on property of the owner or
bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal by or
upon the order of the Chief of Police after a waiting period of seven days or
more has expired. The Police Department shall place a notice sticker/sign on
said vehicle giving notice that it will be towed after said seven-day waiting
period has so expired.
('79 Code, § 1808(2)) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 NOTIFICATION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this state, not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Police
Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the village. Upon
receipt of such notification, the Chief of the Police Department shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the
tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally
entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this
chapter.
('79 Code, § 1808(3)) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 TOWING AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in
this village ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially
dismantled motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because
of its position in relation to the highway, or its physical appearance is
causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a
towing service may be authorized by order of the Chief of the Police
Department.
   (C)   When the removal of a vehicle from either public or private property
is authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department, the owner of the
vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
('79 Code, § 1808(4))
   (D)   The storing, placing, or allowing to remain in the open on private
property within the village of motor vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, motors,
and materials for a period of more than 48 hours in any one calendar month is
hereby prohibited, unless necessary for the operation of a business enterprise
lawfully conducted thereon.
   (E)   The parking or storing of junked or disabled motor vehicles and junked
or disabled vehicles and the storing or allowing to remain in the open of motor
vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, motors, and materials or junked or disabled
vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, motors and materials in violation of division
(D) above is declared to constitute a public nuisance. The Police Department
will be empowered to declare such a public nuisance to exist.
   (F)   The village shall notify the person in control of any private property
to relocate any junked or disabled motor vehicle or junked or disabled vehicles
parked or stored in violation of division (D) above and/or any motor vehicle,
bodies, parts, equipment, etc., stored and allowed to remain in the open in
violation of division (D) above to a completely closed location on the property
or otherwise to remove the same from the premises. Such notice shall be given
by certified or registered mail addressed to the residence or usual place of
business of such person.
   (G)   When a vehicle has been defined and declared a nuisance, the owner
shall have seven days from the receipt of the notice provided for in division
(F) above to request a hearing with the Village Board, such request shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
   (H)   If, after the expiration of seven days from the receipt of the notice
provided for in division (F) above, the person so notified has failed to
request a hearing pursuant to division (G) above, or has failed, neglected, or
refused to comply with the direction of such notice, the village shall pay for
the removal and disposal of such motor vehicles, motor vehicle bodies, motors,
equipment, etc., or order the removal and disposal by the village.
   (I)   In the event the village is required to remove and dispose of the
motor vehicle, motor vehicle bodies, motors, equipment, etc., the person in
control of the premises shall be liable to the village for the expense occurred
by the village. A statement shall be rendered to the person liable for the cost
thereof, and if not paid, suit shall be instituted.
(Ord. 1990-O-7, passed 5-15-90)
§ 94.05 RECORD OF VEHICLE TOWED.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year, and the number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall
also include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing, and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
('79 Code, § 1808(5))
§ 94.06 SEARCH OF STATE MOTOR VEHICLE RECORDS FOR IDENTITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, it will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the State Police for
stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the State Police files are
searched with negative results, the information contained in the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the State Police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the Police
Department in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally
entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be
made, and setting forth public sale information.
('79 Code, § 1808(6))
   (C)   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the State Police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the State Police
will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of
the vehicle for notification of owner. ('79 Code, § 1808(7))
§ 94.07 RECLAIMING POSSESSION.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid.
('79 Code, § 1808(8))
§ 94.08 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded.
      (1)    At least ten days prior to the sale, the Police Department shall
cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail
to the registered owner or other person known by the Police Department or
towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such
notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what
steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
      (2)   In those instances where the certified notification specified
herein has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due
to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from
the registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified
notice will not be required.
('79 Code, § 1808(9))
   (B)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle of seven
years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this
chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the
manner authorized by this chapter without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   (C)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is impounded
as specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten
days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of the registered
owner by the U.S. Mail, public service, or in person for a determination of
disposition; and an examination of the State Police stolen motor vehicle files
for
theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten-day period, without
the benefit of disposition information being received from the registered
owner, the Chief of Police will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk
only.
   (D)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is
excluded from this chapter.
('79 Code, § 1808(10))
§ 94.09 RECORDS TO BE KEPT FOR ONE YEAR.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the
Police Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal.
('79 Code, § 1808(11))
§ 94.10 PROCEEDS FROM DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the village is
authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth
in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges shall be deposited in the
municipal treasury.
('79 Code, § 1808(12))
§ 94.11 STORAGE OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES REQUIRED.
   The storage outside of an enclosed building of one or more abandoned or
inoperable vehicles or parts thereof, or of any junk or debris, machinery, or
equipment not in operable condition, except on property in a zone in which a
junkyard is permitted under the zoning ordinance, is declared a public
nuisance.
('79 Code, § 1808(14)) (Ord. 1983-O-20, passed 9-6-83) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 WAIVER OF LIABILITY.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator, or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or the owner's legal representative, or any
other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this chapter.
('79 Code, § 1808(13))
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner of any vehicle or junk declared to be a nuisance hereunder,
or any person owning, leasing, occupying, or having control of property on
which a nuisance exists shall be issued a notice to correct the violation by an
authorized officer of the village and shall be given a reasonable time, but no
less than 48 hours, to correct said violation. If the owner, lessee, occupant,
or person having control of the property fails to correct the violation within
the time stated on the notice, that person shall be fined the sum of $25 for
the first offense, $50 for the second offense, $100 for the third offense and
$200 for the fourth and any subsequent offense. Each day during which a
violation exists following expiration of the time allowed in the notice shall
be deemed a separate offense. Additionally, if the owner, lessee, occupant, or
person having control of the property fails to correct the violation within the
time stated on the notice, the village, through its duly designated officers,
shall have the right to secure an order of court to enter upon the property and
correct such violation, and shall have a lien against such property for the
reasonable cost of correction, together with the reasonable costs, expenses and
attorney's fees incurred in seeking such court order.
   (B)   All other violations of any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, the person in violation shall be
fined an amount not more than $500. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable hereunder as such.
('79 Code, § 1808(15))
   (C)   Whoever violates the following series of code sections shall be fined
pursuant to the chart set forth hereinbelow:
 
Offense Section Number 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
§                     $25         $50         $100
94.11
 
(Ord. 1983-O-20, passed 9-6-83; Am. Ord. 1999-O-17, passed 6-15-99; Am. Ord.
2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06)
CHAPTER 95: HEALTH AND SANITATION; GARBAGE
Section
Contagious Diseases
   
95.01   Reports required
   
95.02   Quarantine
   
95.03   Fumigation
   
95.04   Spreading contagion
   
95.05   Deliveries to quarantined premises
Garbage Disposal for Multi-Family, Commercial, and Industrial Buildings
   
95.10   Definitions
   
95.11   Refuse
   
95.12   Removal required
   
95.13   Containers to be provided
   
95.14   Use of containers
   
95.15   Regulation of collectors
   
95.16   Dumping of litter prohibited
   
95.17   Construction refuse
   
95.18   Screening required
Garbage Disposal for Single-Family Residences, Duplexes, and Apartment
Buildings
   
95.20   Applicability
   
95.21   Definitions
   
95.22   Exclusive contract required
   
95.23   Compliance required; exceptions
   
95.24   Recycling program established
   
95.25   Collection
Other Health and Sanitation Regulations
   
95.30   Cemeteries
   
95.31   Food sanitation regulations
   
95.32   Stagnant pools
   
95.33   Private property or building as health nuisance
   
95.34   Obstruction or pollution of watercourses prohibited
   
95.35   Endangering public health in any manner prohibited
Abatement Procedure
   
95.45   Notice to abate
   
95.46   Abatement by village; lien
Comprehensive Fire and Burning Regulations
   
95.50   Purpose
   
95.51   Definitions
   
95.52   General prohibition
   
95.53   Grass fire regulations
   
95.54   Prohibited burning
   
95.55   Bonfires and campfires
   
95.56   Citizen complaints
 
   
95.99   Penalty
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
§ 95.01 REPORTS REQUIRED.
   Every physician called in to handle a case of a contagious or epidemic
disease in the village shall make a report of the same within 24 hours after
being called in to the Health Officer. In case no physician is in attendance,
it shall be the duty of the person in charge or in care of any person with such
disease to make a report within 24 hours from the time the disease is
recognized.
('79 Code, § 1201(1))
§ 95.02 QUARANTINE.
   The Board of Health and the Health Officer shall have charge of the
establishment and enforcement of reasonable quarantine rules. They shall have
the power and authority to place any premises within which a contagious or
infectious disease occurs under quarantine, and shall determine the time when
the quarantine shall end.
('79 Code, § 1201(2))
§ 95.03 FUMIGATION.
   Premises which have been quarantined in accordance with the terms of §
95.02, or in which a contagious disease has occurred, shall be thoroughly
fumigated or otherwise freed from all risk of infection under the supervision
of the Health Officer, before the quarantine shall be lifted.
('79 Code, § 1201(3))
§ 95.04 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or carelessly aid or cause
the spread of any contagious disease.
('79 Code, § 1201(4)) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DELIVERIES TO QUARANTINED PREMISES.
   No person engaged in the delivery of food or drink intended for human
consumption shall enter into any premises which are quarantined because of the
existence of a contagious disease. No containers or bottles shall be removed
from such premises until the termination of the quarantine; and no such
containers which have been left at the premises during the quarantine period
shall be placed in use for the carrying of food or drink until they have been
thoroughly sterilized.
('79 Code, § 1201(5)) Penalty, see §
95.99
GARBAGE DISPOSAL FOR MULTI-FAMILY, COMMERCIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS
§ 95.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue from the combustion of fuel used for heating.
   GARBAGE. All organic household kitchen wastes, such as rejected or unused
food and food residue, and paper necessarily used for wrapping the same.
   HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH. Inorganic, incombustible household waste such as tin
cans, metal ware, bottles, broken glass, crockery, stoneware, and similar
refuse resulting from the regular operation of a household.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste. The term may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspapers, magazines, glass,
metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging construction material,
abandoned vehicles, motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcasses of dead
animals, nauseous or offensive matter of any kind, objects likely to injure any
person or create a traffic hazard, or anything else of an unsightly or
unsanitary nature which has been discarded, abandoned, or otherwise disposed of
improperly. (Ord. 1988-O-3, passed 2-2-88)
   MANURE. The excrement of domestic animals and fowl, and stable bedding.
   MISCELLANEOUS RUBBISH. Combustible rubbish or waste resulting from the
operation of a residence, including grass cuttings, but excluding any highly
inflammable material or explosives.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, or any other
legal entity or their legal representative, agent, or assigns. (Ord. 1988-O-3,
passed 2-2-88)
   SPECIAL RUBBISH. All rubbish not above defined.
('79 Code, § 1202(1))
§ 95.11 REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit
anywhere in the village any uncovered pile of refuse, garbage, offal, or
carcasses of dead animals. Such refuse must be buried at least two feet below
the surface of the ground, buried in properly constructed incinerators, or
otherwise properly disposed of. Any uncovered pile of refuse is hereby declared
to be a nuisance.
('79 Code, § 1205(5)) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   The owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises in the village shall remove
from the premises or otherwise dispose of all garbage, ashes, rubbish, and
animal fecal material, and shall keep the premises at all times free and clear
of any accumulation of refuse.
('79 Code, § 1202(2)) (Am. Ord. 1999-O-17, passed 6-15-99) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 CONTAINERS TO BE PROVIDED.
   The owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises in the village upon which any
garbage, ashes, household rubbish, miscellaneous rubbish, or special rubbish
accumulate shall provide and maintain, clean and in good repair, adequate
separate receptacles of the following material, construction, and capacity:
   (A)   A receptacle for garbage and miscellaneous rubbish shall be a suitable
container with a close- fitting cover. It shall be watertight and provided with
suitable handles for carrying. Each receptacle shall have a capacity of not
less than ten gallons and not more than one yard, and shall be provided by any
owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises.
   (B)   A receptacle for ashes and household rubbish shall be a suitable
container and have a capacity of not less than ten gallons and not more than
one yard, and shall be provided with suitable handles for carrying.
   (C)   A receptacle for special rubbish shall be of adequate strength, shall
have a capacity of not more than three bushels, and shall be provided with
suitable handles for carrying.
   (D)   Receptacles (commonly referred to as "dumpsters") for apartment
buildings, condominiums, and other multiple dwelling units shall meet the
following size requirements:
      Number of Units   Size (Yards)
         (For each additional 5 units, receptacle capacity shall be increased
by 2 yards.)
   (E)   An owner, occupant, or lessee of premises consisting of a single-
family dwelling, duplex, or multiple-dwelling unit having fewer units than the
number specified in division (D) shall be permitted to utilize receptacles
commonly referred to as "dumpsters."
('79 Code, § 1202(3)) (Ord. 1980-O-2, passed 3-4-80) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 USE OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The occupant or lessee of any premises in the village shall cause all
garbage and nothing except garbage to be deposited in the receptacle or
receptacles provided for garbage; and ashes or household rubbish and nothing
except ashes and household rubbish to be deposited in the receptacle or
receptacles provided for same.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises in the village may
dispose of any garbage, ashes, or household rubbish produced on his own
premises when such disposal is accomplished in a manner which does not create a
nuisance or cause annoyance or discomfort to inhabitants of the village.
   (C)   All receptacles shall be placed outside the residence or other
building in an accessible place, at ground level, and at the rear of the
residence or building except that said receptacles may be placed near the
street line within eight hours prior to the day of collection and must be
removed within eight hours after the day of collection.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any garbage, ashes,
or household rubbish in any garbage receptacle belonging to the village.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit garbage, ashes, or
household rubbish in any rubbish container or receptacle commonly referred to
as a "dumpster" not owned, rented, or furnished for his use.
   (F)   Receptacles commonly referred to as "dumpsters" and rubbish containers
used in the village parks shall be used for the deposit of trash from the use
of village parks. No one shall transport any junk or garbage into any village
park for the purpose of using said receptacles for the disposal of their
personal junk or garbage.
('79 Code, § 1202(4)) (Ord. 1983-O-24, passed 10-18-83) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.15 REGULATION OF COLLECTORS.
   The business of collecting and disposing of garbage and rubbish for hire,
and of transporting such over the streets of the village without a permit is
declared to be a nuisance. Such business shall not be carried on by any person
except under the conditions prescribed by the village.
('79 Code, § 1202(5)) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.16 DUMPING OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause, or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving of
litter upon any public or private property in this village, or upon or into any
river, lake, pond, or other stream or body of water in this village, unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated by the village or any of its
agencies, for the disposal of litter;
      (2)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended
by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
      (3)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; or
      (4)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of such litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
   (B)   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property of which
the person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements onto the real property of another
person.
('79 Code, § 1202(6)) (Ord. 1988-O-3, passed 2-2-88) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.17 CONSTRUCTION REFUSE.
   Refuse resulting from construction operations including earth, plaster,
metal, tile, brick, concrete, terra cotta, slate, shingles, roofing, tin, iron,
and construction litter in general, shall be removed and disposed of by and at
the expense of the person responsible for its production and in a safe manner.
('79 Code, § 1202(7)) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.18 SCREENING REQUIRED.
   All properties subject to the regulations set forth in §§
95.10 through
95.16 shall be required to have opaque screening six feet in height, completely
surrounding the garbage containers, dumpsters, grease bins or other outdoor
waste containers, which screening shall be made of wood, cement block or brick
and include a latching gate with a self-closing device such as spring hinges.
The gate may be constructed of wood or chain-link fencing material equipped
with privacy slats. A wooden privacy fence of the appropriate height shall be
considered to be a sufficient screen. Upon a petition duly presented by the
property owner or business owner, the Village Board shall have the express
ability to grant a variance upon such terms and conditions as may be just and
equitable in the premises.
(Ord. 2007-O-28, passed 10-2-07; Am. Ord. 2008-O-15, passed 7-1-08
Penalty, see § 95.99
GARBAGE DISPOSAL FOR SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCES,
DUPLEXES, AND APARTMENT BUILDINGS
§ 95.20 APPLICABILITY.
   Effective October 1, 2004, all single-family residences, duplexes and
apartment buildings containing four or less units shall be governed by the
provisions set forth in this subchapter. After that date, §§
95.10 through
95.17, inclusive, shall apply only to larger mufti-family buildings, commercial
and industrial buildings and, only to the extent that they do not conflict with
any provision of this subchapter, to all other persons and properties in the
village.
(Ord. 2004-O-15, passed 9-7-04)
§ 95.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURBSIDE. The approved point of collection which shall be within five feet
of the edge of the paved street.
   GARBAGE. All household and kitchen wastes, such as discarded food or food
residues and paper necessarily used for wrapping same, books, boxes and
cartons, providing all such materials are placed in suitable containers and not
left in piles on the ground, and small amounts of sod, earth and rocks,
provided the last three items listed are put in suitable containers of
reasonable, movable weight. It shall also include do-it-yourself home
remodeling and repair construction materials, and not commercial remodeling and
construction materials, provided the items are put in suitable containers or
bundles of reasonably movable weight.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL/MATERIALS. Aluminum cans, tin and/or steel cans, plastic
milk jugs (HDPE), newspaper, glass bottles/containers or other materials
specified by the village, the hauler or the contract.
   RECYCLING CONTAINERS. The container provided by the contract hauler to
residents for the specific purpose of storing recyclable materials on site and
for placing those materials curbside for collection. Exact size, shape and
color of the container may vary from time to time, however, recycling
containers will be clearly marked for use as a recycling container only.
(Ord. 2004-O-15, passed 9-7-04)
§ 95.22 EXCLUSIVE CONTRACT REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the enterprise of collecting, transporting,
processing, storing or disposing of garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse,
recyclables, landscape waste or solid waste of any kind from any residence,
dwelling, or multi-family residential development of four units or less within
the corporate limits of the village, as the limits exist from time to time,
without first having secured an exclusive contract with the village for such
purposes, consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-O-15, passed 9-7-04) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.23 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All residents within the village shall comply with all applicable
provisions of the current contract between the village and the village’s
designated single waste hauler, and any extensions or amendments thereto.
   (B)   The contract, as well as any extensions and amendments thereto, is on
file with the Village Clerk and is hereby made part of this subchapter by
reference.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, two residences composed entirely of
senior citizens (being persons having reached the age of 65 years) may jointly
combine their garbage from their individual residences and share the expense
thereof, and in such an event, the single waste hauler shall only bill and
receive compensation for one residential service.
   (D)   A further exception is made for residents who leave their homes on
extended vacations. In the event any residence is vacated by its residents for
a period of more than 30 days in a row, that owner or occupant of that
residence may so notify the single waste hauler in advance and in writing and
this shall cause the hauler to suspend service to that residence. No charges
shall be billed to the residence for any period of suspension pursuant to this
division.
(Ord. 2004-O-15, passed 9-7-04) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.24 RECYCLING PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a voluntary village-wide residential
recycling program to be operated by the village's exclusive single waste hauler
to provide for the separation of certain designated recyclable materials from
normal household refuse for placement in specially designated containers
provided by the single waste hauler. The respective approved containers for
recyclables and landscape waste shall be used only for the purpose of storing
the materials on site and for the placement of those materials curbside.
   (B)   Recycling containers shall be stored on the residential premises in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter and may be placed at the
designated location for collection only during the times specified in this
chapter.
   (C)   Once recyclable materials have been placed in or alongside the
container and set at the curb or other designated collection location, the
materials become the property of the village and the contract hauler, and it
shall be unlawful for any other person to move, remove or tamper with
recyclables or landscape waste and each act of moving, removing and/or
tampering in violation hereof from one or more locations shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense punishable as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Any person may donate recyclables and landscape waste to any other
person whether operating for profit or not for profit; and
      (2)   Any person may maintain his own compost pile or site so long as
such site or pile neither constitutes a nuisance to surrounding property owners
nor endangers the public health or safety.
(Ord. 2004-O-15, passed 9-7-04) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.25 COLLECTION.
   No garbage, recyclables, landscape waste or any refuse whether or not in the
proper container, shall be placed on any portion of any public or private road,
street or alley, or within 25 feet thereof, earlier than 24 hours prior to the
scheduled time and date for the pickup of such garbage, recyclables or
landscape waste for the premises; and any garbage, recyclables or landscape
waste placed earlier than as aforesaid is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. The nuisance may be abated at the direction of the Mayor and the
removal of the nuisance shall be at the expense of the owner and resident of
the premises in question who shall be jointly liable.
(Ord. 2004-O-15, passed 9-7-04) Penalty, see
95.99
OTHER HEALTH AND SANITATION REGULATIONS
§ 95.30 CEMETERIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to establish a
cemetery or to bury any person within the village limits or within one mile
thereof without a permit therefor from the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 1205(6)) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.31 FOOD SANITATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All premises used for the sale or storage of food or drink intended
for human consumption shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. It shall
be unlawful to permit any person who is afflicted with a contagious disease to
handle any food or drink intended for sale. Such premises shall be kept free
from flies and vermin at all times. ('79 Code, § 1205(2))
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, any unwholesome or
polluted food or drink of any kind intended or polluted food or drink of any
kind intended for human consumption, in the village. ('79 Code, § 1205(1))
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.32 STAGNANT POOLS.
   Any stagnant pool of water in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit
any such nuisance to remain or exist on any property under its control.
('79 Code, § 1205(4)) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.33 PRIVATE PROPERTY OR BUILDING AS HEALTH NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any building, structure, or place to remain
in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health in any way. Any
such structure, building, or place is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
('79 Code, § 1205(7)) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.34 OBSTRUCTION OR POLLUTION OF WATERCOURSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person, firm, or corporation to
obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in the village.
('79 Code, § 1205(3)) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.35 ENDANGERING PUBLIC HEALTH IN ANY MANNER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to commit or do any act which endangers the
public health or results in annoyance or discomfort to the public. ('79 Code, §
1205(8))
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit or maintain the existence of any
nuisance on any premises controlled or occupied by any person, firm, or
corporation in the village. The Board of Health, Health Officer, and any member
of the Police Department are hereby authorized to abate any nuisance existing
in the village, whether such nuisance is one specifically recognized as such by
this chapter or other ordinance or not. A nuisance shall include, but shall not
be limited to the allowing or suffering of any ditch, drain, excavation, or
hole in, across, or under any public street, alley, sidewalk, or other place or
lot not to be refilled with all reasonable dispatch so that such street, alley,
sidewalk, or place or lot remains a hazard to children and all persons who may
pass by or may be attracted to said ditch, drain, excavation, or hole.
('79 Code, § 1205(9)) Penalty, see §
95.99
ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
§ 95.45 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   In addition to the penalty provided for in §
95.99, if any nuisance is not abated within five days after notice in writing
by the Board of Health, Health Officer, or any member of the Police Department
duly served on the owner, tenant, agent, or person having control of the
premises, the said Board of Health, Health Officer, or member of the Police
Department may cause said nuisance to be abated. Service of the notice may be
effected by handing the same to the owner, tenant, or agent in person wherever
they may be, or to any member of their household of the age of 15 years or
upwards found on the premises, or by mailing the same by United States mail,
postage fully prepaid, addressed to the owner if known, or if not known, to the
last taxpayer of record as it appears on the records of the County Treasurer.
('79 Code, § 1205(10))
§ 95.46 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; LIEN.
   (A)   The Board of Health, Health Officer, or member of the Police
Department shall keep an accurate record of expenses incurred in abating the
nuisance on each parcel of real estate and this expense shall become a lien
upon the real estate effected. The lien shall be superior to all other liens
and encumbrances except tax liens. Within 60 days after incurring the expense
of abating the nuisance, the Board of Health, Health Officer, or member of the
Police Department shall file a notice of lien in the office of the County
Recorder of Deeds. The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost or expense incurred and
payable for the services; and
      (3)   The day and date when the expense was incurred by the village.
   (B)   After notice of lien is filed with the County Recorder of Deeds, the
expense shall be a lien upon the real estate described therein from and after
its recording until it is released as provided by law.
('79 Code, § 1205(10))
COMPREHENSIVE FIRE AND BURNING REGULATIONS
§ 95.50 PURPOSE.
   The village recognizes the traditional burning of leaves and other clean
material, and also the health rights of those affected by inhalation of smoke
and ash as well as the danger from uncontrolled fire and burning of certain
noxious materials, in accordance with the Lake County Department of Health, the
Illinois Environmental Protection Act, Illinois Administrative Code and the
BOCA National Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 2002-O-8, passed 3-5-02)
§ 95.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials and trade residues
but excluding landscape waste.
   CLEAN WOOD. The wooden remains of a building, trees, branches, stumps and
split firewood.
   DOMICILE WASTE. Any refuse generated on single-family domiciliary property
as a result of domiciliary activities. The term excludes landscape waste,
garbage and trade waste.
   GARBAGE. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking and consumption of or food preparation.
   GRASS FIRE. A fire which covers a broad area, including fields, scrub areas
or woodlands which is not centralized on a particular pile of combustible
materials.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and
agricultural waste. The term includes weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery and yard
trimmings.
   TRADE WASTE. Any refuse resulting from the prosecution of any trade,
business, industry, commercial venture, utility or service activity and any
government or institutional activity, whether or not for profit. The term
includes landscape waste but excludes agricultural waste.
(Ord. 2002-O-8, passed 3-5-02)
§ 95.52 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to light or maintain any fire in the village
except in accordance with the provisions in this subchapter. The term fire as
used herein shall not be construed to mean or include a fire in a furnace,
stove or fireplace or other container designed for the burning of approved
materials.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision herein, it shall be unlawful to light or
maintain any fire in the village so close to any building or structure, or any
flammable material other than that to be burned so as to cause a fire hazard or
the emission of thick, black smoke or release into the air particles of ash.
(Ord. 2002-O-8, passed 3-5-02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.53 GRASS FIRE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall set any grass fire in the village without first
obtaining a permit from the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Permits:
      (1)   The Fire Chief may, in his sole discretion, issue a permit for a
grass fire upon an application from a village resident or landowner, and in
determining whether or not to issue the permit, the Fire Chief may, but is not
required to, consider the scope of the planned burn, the availability of fire
hydrants, ponds or other sources of water, the weather conditions, the number
of persons the resident or landowner may have available to tend the fire, the
reason why the resident or landowner wishes to set the fire and available
alternatives thereto, the available manpower in the Fire Department at the time
proposed for the fire, any other permits issued for the same time as proposed
and any other factors which could lead to an unmanageable fire being set.
      (2)   In issuing such a permit, the Fire Chief may set the specific time
and date upon which the fire may be maintained and any other conditions he may
deem necessary or desirable to prevent the spread of such a fire and to ensure
the public safety.
      (3)   Where a permit has been issued, the Fire Chief shall have the sole
discretion to cancel such a permit without prior notice to the permitee if
weather conditions, manpower or the like shall indicate the existence of
altered conditions that may make the spread of the fire likely.
   (C)   Any person setting a grass fire with or without first having obtained
a permit from the Fire Chief shall be liable for all costs incurred by the Fire
Department in extinguishing any fire which becomes unmanageable or grows out of
control.
   (D)   Any person setting a grass fire with or without first having obtained
a permit from the Fire Chief shall be liable in a civil action to the owner of
any property destroyed or damaged by such a fire.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall make the Fire Chief or the village liable to any
person for a grass fire, whether set pursuant to a permit or not.
   (F)   Any person setting a grass fire without first obtaining a permit from
the Fire Chief shall be punished as provided for in §
95.99.
   (G)   In the absence of the Fire Chief, the next ranking officer of the Fire
Department or the specifically designated Acting Chief shall have all the
powers of the Fire Chief described in this section.
(Ord. 2002-O-8, passed 3-5-02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.54 PROHIBITED BURNING.
   The following activities are specifically prohibited:
   (A)   The burning of landscape waste, trash, rubbish or construction debris
(other than clean wood) is prohibited. Materials such as, but not limited to,
hazardous materials, asphalt, animal carcasses, manure, rubber, asbestos and
asbestos materials, roofing, treated wood and lumber, tires, skids, plastic
materials, batteries, paint and other solvent containers, plastic containers,
other materials producing noxious odors and/or black smoke, shall not be burned
at any time.
   (B)   No burning shall occur on a public street, sidewalk or within a right-
of-way.
   (C)   Cardboard and other paper products may not be burned in any
residentially zoned area, provided, however that the products may be burned by
commercial establishments in business or industrial districts, but only under
the following conditions:
      (1)   The burning shall be within an approved incinerator stove, furnace
or fireplace or metal drum designed and constructed as set forth below so as to
prevent the escape of ignited particles or burning material therefrom.
      (2)   As it is preferred that commercial establishments recycle paper and
cardboard rather than burning, therefore, only when recycling is not available
and the establishment's storage bins are full may a commercial establishment
burn cardboard and paper products.
      (3)   The area in which the incinerator to be used is located shall have
a surface of gravel, cinders, cement or similar non-combustible material and
this area shall extend at least five feet from each side of the approved
burning container.
      (4)   The burning shall be done in an incinerator no larger than five
feet in width and not more than five feet in height. It shall be constructed of
steel or firebrick. The top of the incinerator shall be equipped with a spark
arrestor or screen having openings of not more than ¾-inch.
   (D)   Site and weather restrictions:
      (1)   No burning of any kind shall be allowed on a day or evening when
the wind is predicted to be in excess of 10 miles per hour, by the National
Weather Service or within 48 hours after a rain totaling ¼ inch or more, as
reported by the National Weather Service.
      (2)   All burning permitted herein shall be extinguished and put out
before the attendant leaves the burn area or when the wind, smoke or ash make
such fire dangerous or likely to emit noxious fumes and smoke.
      (3)   A hose or other sufficient extinguisher device shall always be
readily available.
      (4)   No burning shall create a visibility hazard on streets and
roadways.
      (5)   No fire shall be lit within 30 feet of any building or structure or
within 10 feet of a fence or property line.
(Ord. 2002-O-8, passed 3-5-02; Am. Ord. 2004-O-15, passed 9-7-04) Penalty, see
§
95.99
§ 95.55 BONFIRES AND CAMPFIRES.
   This chapter is not intended to prohibit a controlled burn under adult
supervision, and after notice to the Police Department, of clean wood and
materials, other than those prohibited above, for an occasional gathering of
neighbors, block party, school groups, scout and other legally recognized
organizations, or for a special event such as a charitable fund raising
activity. Such a burn may be after sunset but must be extinguished by 11:00
p.m. The pile of materials to be burned may not exceed 5 feet x 5 feet x 5
feet, the fire must not be closer than 30 feet to any building or structure,
and the area surrounding the fire must be non-combustible.
(Ord. 2002-O-8, passed 3-5-02; Am. Ord. 12-O-11, passed 6-5-12) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.56 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Upon the complaint of any village resident that a burning in progress may be
a violation of this chapter, the Village Police Department will investigate as
soon as possible and if it appears that such burning is a violation of the
chapter, will order the fire to be extinguished immediately and, if necessary,
call the Fire Department to do so.
(Ord. 2002-O-8, passed 3-5-02)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the abatement procedure set forth in §§
95.45 and
95.46, the following penalties shall apply:
   (A)   Whoever violates the following series of code sections shall be fined
pursuant to the chart set forth hereinbelow:
Offense Section Number 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
§                     $25         $50         $100
95.11
§                     $25         $50         $100
95.12
§                     $25         $50         $100
95.13
§                     $25         $50         $100
95.14
§                     $25         $50         $100
95.15
§                     $25         $50         $100
95.16
§                     $25         $50         $100
95.17
§                     $25         $50         $100
95.18
§                     $25         $50         $100
95.53
§                     $25         $50         $100
95.54
§                     $25         $50         $100
95.55
 
   (B)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any provision of §§
95.20 through
95.25 or any regulation promulgated pursuant hereto, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punishable by a fine in the amount of $450, and each day a
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. In addition, the village
shall have the right to the other remedies available to it at law and in
equity, including, but not limited to, injunctive relief as necessary to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 1999-O-17, passed 6-15-99; Am. Ord. 2002-O-8, passed 3-5-02; Am. Ord.
2002-O-23, passed 6-18-02; Am. Ord. 2004-O-15, passed 9-7-04; Am. Ord. 2006-O-
17, passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord. 2007-O-08, passed 10-2-077; Am. Ord. 2009-O-14,
passed 7-21-09)
CHAPTER 96: NOISE
Section
   
96.01   Excessive noise prohibited
   
96.02   Exceptions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Noisy animals, see §
90.03
§ 96.01 EXCESSIVE NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Vehicles.  No person shall play, use, operate or permit to be played,
used or operated, any radio, tape recorder, cassette player, compact disc
player, MP3 player IPOD or other device for receiving broadcast sound or
reproducing recorded sound if the device is located on the public way or in any
motor vehicle on the public way if the sound generated by the device is audible
at a distance of 75 feet or more from the device.
   (B)   On public property.  No person, for purposes of entertainment or
communication may generate any sound by any means that it is audible at a
distance 100 feet or greater from the point of generation.
   (C)   On private property.  No person, for purposes of entertainment or
communication may generate any sound by any means that it is audible at a
distance 100 feet or greater from the property line of the private property
where the sound is generated.
(Ord. 2015-O-22, passed 10-6-15) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any of the following:
   (A)   Sound generated in conjuncture with a village-sponsored event;
   (B)   A person participating in a parade, public assembly or athletic event
for which, a special event permit has been obtained from the village;
   (C)   An emergency warning device or alarm sounded for emergency purposes;
   (D)   Sound generated between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. in
construction, demolition or repair work;
   (E)   Sound generated in construction, demolition or repair work of an
emergency nature or in work on public improvements authorized by a governmental
body or agency;
   (F)   Sound generated by church bells.
(Ord. 2015-O-22, passed 10-6-15)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Refer to the chart of fines set forth in §
39.07 of this code.
(Ord. 2015-O-22, passed 10-6-15)
CHAPTER 97: OUTDOOR EVENTS AND ASSEMBLIES
Section
   
97.01   Permit required; exceptions
   
97.02   Application; fee; insurance
   
97.03   Police investigation; report
   
97.04   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
97.05   Appeal procedure
   
97.06   Revocation; refund; notice
   
97.07   Periodic permits
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person, partnership, corporation, organization, or group shall
promote, advertise, operate, conduct, or participate in any public or quasi-
public exhibition, demonstration, show, festival, parade, similar planned
event, or other outdoor assembly of persons, which is directly or indirectly
advertised or touted in the public press, radio, or television, or to which
large numbers of people are directly or indirectly invited to attend, unless
the person, partnership, corporation, organization, or group promoting,
advertising, operating, or conducting the same shall first have obtained a
permit from the Village Clerk.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Funeral processions proceeding by vehicle under the most reasonable
route from the funeral home, church, or residence of the deceased to the place
of interment.
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
('79 Code, § 1918(1)) (Ord. 1987-O-6, passed 1-20-87) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.02 APPLICATION; FEE; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Written application for such a permit shall be made to the Village
Clerk not less than 20 days nor more than 60 days prior to the event for which
the permit is requested. Together with the application the applicant shall, in
typewritten form, submit the following information:
      (1)   The proposed location and the portion of the premises available for
such event.
      (2)   The reasonable projected number of persons who will attend such
outdoor event and the basis of such projection.
      (3)   A specific description of the nature of the assembly and the number
and, where
available, the names of the exhibitors, demonstrators, or other persons invited
by or under contract with the applicant in connection with the proposed event.
      (4)   Annexed to such application shall be the written permission of the
record owner or owners of the premises intended to be used or, if the same is
owned by this state, Lake County, or any other governmental unit or school
board, then the written permission of the officer or agent having authority to
permit the use of such premises as they are intended to be used.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay to the Village Clerk a permit fee of $25 per
application.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit to the Village Clerk with the application:
      (1)   A written commitment from a responsible insurance company, licensed
to do business in Illinois, to insure the applicant and the village as a co-
insured during such event, on a single limit policy, in the amount of $500,000;
or
      (2)   Where it shall appear that the nature or size of the event or the
existence of other applicable insurance will not reasonably require the limits
hereinabove related, the President may fix such lesser limits or accept such
evidence of other insurance or financial responsibility as will reasonably
afford protection to the participants and the public; or
      (3)   Where it shall appear that no insurance can be reasonably obtained
by the applicant, the President shall require that all persons who desire to
participate in a proposed event duly execute and submit to the Village Clerk no
later than 72 hours prior to the event, a release and hold-harmless agreement,
which shall read as follows:
   "Hold-Harmless Indemnification Agreement"
   I,       (name)        of     (address)     , City of       , County of
               , State of               plan to participate in  (name of event,
parade, demonstration, etc.   , scheduled to take place on   (date)     ,
within the municipal limits of the Village of Winthrop Harbor, Illinois.
   I hereby assume the risk for any personal injuries or property damages that
I may sustain in the pursuit of my activities while participating in the above-
specified event and do hereby hold harmless, remise, release, and forever
discharge, the Village of Winthrop Harbor, its agents and employees, from any
and all actions, suits, damages, claims or judgments that may result from any
personal injuries or property damages I may sustain while participating in
(name of event)                 on    (date)      .
   Further, I shall be liable and shall indemnify the Village of Winthrop
Harbor and/or its agents for any injury or loss sustained by a third party,
which results from my conduct or participation in the above-specified event.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have executed this Release/Hold-Harmless Agreement at
  (designate place of execution)   on               , 19  .
                                                                     
                           (Signature of Participant)
   Subscribed and sworn to before me
   this            day of      , 19  .
                                                     
   Notary Public
('79 Code, § 1918(2)) (Ord. 1987-O-6, passed 1-20-87) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 POLICE INVESTIGATION; REPORT.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall, upon receipt of the application, refer the
same immediately to the Police Department in order that it might complete and
submit to the Village Clerk and President an investigative report and
recommendations.
   (B)   The Police Department shall cause to be investigated and shall report
upon the following:
      (1)   The background of the applicant and the factual accuracy of the
application.
      (2)   The extent to which the proposed outdoor assembly may adversely
affect the health, safety, or welfare of the persons attending the same or the
health, safety, or welfare of the persons in the community.
      (3)   Such other matters as may reasonably be required by the nature and
size of the proposed event or as may be directed by the Village Clerk.
   (C)   The report of the Police Department shall contain written
recommendations and the reasons therefor. Said report shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and the President within ten days after receipt of the
application for a permit and shall be available for inspection by the applicant
or his attorney.
('79 Code, § 1918(3)) (Ord. 1987-O-6, passed 1-20-87)
§ 97.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   The President shall, upon consideration of the application and the report
submitted pursuant to §
97.03, together with any additional information, grant the permit for which
application is made, subject, however, to the following:
   (A)   Each permit shall contain such written conditions as are reasonable
and appropriate to the nature and size of the proposed event so as to insure
the public health, morals, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued unless a certified copy of the applicant's
liability insurance policy, or other required evidence of financial
responsibility, shall have been filed with the Village Clerk or President.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued unless the full permit fee required by §
97.02, shall have been paid to the Clerk.
   (D)   The President may require of the applicant, prior to the issuance of a
permit, a cash deposit in an amount sufficient to insure prompt repair of
physical damage and collection of refuse when the event is to take place in a
public street, park, playground, or other public facility. Such a cash deposit
shall, as well, be sufficient to pay for such special police officers and like
personnel as may reasonably be required by the event and for which the Village
Clerk shall bill the applicant- permittee.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to participate in any manner in any parade,
procession, march, or demonstration between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person participating in any event
described in §
97.01, to wear a mask, hood, or any other article of clothing which conceals
the identity of the participant.
('79 Code, § 1918(4)) (Ord. 1987-O-6, passed 1-20-87) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Upon a denial by the President of an application made pursuant to §
97.02, the applicant may appeal from the determination of the President within
five days thereafter to the Village Board of Trustees by filing a written
notice of appeal for hearing by the Board at its next meeting. Upon such
appeal, the Board of Trustees may reverse, affirm, or modify in any regard the
determination made by the President by majority vote.
('79 Code, § 1918(5)) (Ord. 1987-O-6, passed 1-20-87)
§ 97.06 REVOCATION; REFUND; NOTICE.
   (A)   A permit may be revoked by the President upon 24 hours' notice to the
applicant-permittee where it appears that:
      (1)   The application is materially false or purposely misleading and
such fact was not earlier discovered despite due diligence prior to such time.
      (2)   New or substantially changed conditions have arisen so as to
imperil or materially endanger the public health, morals, safety, or welfare.
If a permit is revoked for the reason denominated in this division (2), the
applicant's permit fee shall be returned to him.
   (B)   A permit may be revoked at any time after 24 hours prior to the event
and at any time during such event where it appears that the public health,
morals, safety, or welfare are being endangered, where it appears that numerous
acts of criminality, disorderly conduct, or juvenile delinquency are occurring,
or where nuisances substantially impairing the comfort or welfare of the
community are occurring. Where such circumstances appear, a permit shall be
revoked upon request of the Police Department by the President, or in the
absence of the foregoing, by the Police Department. In the event of revocation
under this division, the permit fee and the cash deposit, to the extent the
latter is billed, used, or required, shall not be returned to the applicant-
permittee.
   (C)   In the event that a permit is revoked pursuant to division (A) of this
section, oral notice by the President to the applicant-permittee shall be
determined sufficient notice to the applicant-permittee and his agents,
servants, employees, and contractees that the permit has been revoked. In the
event that a permit is revoked pursuant to division (B) of this section, oral
notice, audible to any individual and oral notice reasonably audible to any
person within normal hearing range of any electronic device, given by an
authorized official or police officer, shall be deemed sufficient notice that
the permit has been revoked.
('79 Code, § 1918(6)) (Ord. 1987-O-6, passed 1-20-87) Penalty, see §
97.99  
§ 97.07 PERIODIC PERMITS.
   (A)   Any applicant who shall have obtained a permit for an event which is
commonly held at annual or other periodic intervals shall, once having obtained
such permit, be entitled to renew the same, without fee, upon the same
conditions as are contained in the original permit by notifying the Village
Clerk, in writing, not less than 20 days nor more than 60 days prior to the
event for which the permit is requested, and submitting with such notification,
evidence of financial responsibility and the fulfillment of such other
conditions as may theretofore have been required.
   (B)   The application for renewal shall be granted by the President unless a
bona fide complaint concerning the past operation of such event by the
applicant or new or changed circumstances or a different mode of operation by
the applicant have been brought to the attention of the President. Where such
matters are brought to the attention of the President, he shall hold a hearing
upon notice to the applicant and may thereafter grant the application for
renewal, impose new or different conditions upon the applicant, or deny the
application, as the evidence adduced at the hearing shall warrant.
('79 Code, § 1918(7)) (Ord. 1987-O-6, passed 1-20-87)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, corporation, organization, or group who shall
promote, advertise, operate, conduct, or participate in any event described in
§
97.01 for which no permit has been duly issued, or where required has failed to
file an executed "Hold-Harmless Indemnification Agreement" as described in §
97.02 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500. Each
day any violation of any provision of this chapter shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, partnership, corporation, organization, or group who has
been notified of the revocation of a permit pursuant to the provisions of §
97.06 and thereafter promotes, advertises, operates, conducts, or participates
in any event described in §
97.01 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500. Each
day any violation of any provision of this chapter shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who has been notified of the revocation of a permit
pursuant to the provisions of §
97.06 and who has been requested by a police officer to quit the premises or
who obstructs, hinders, or delays the quitting of himself or others shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
   (D)   Any person, partnership, corporation, organization, or group who
violates any other provision of this chapter, including the submission of a
false or materially misleading application, shall, upon conviction, be punished
by a fine of not more than $500. Each day any violation of any provision of
this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
('79 Code, § 1918(8)) (Ord. 1987-O-6, passed 1-20-87)
CHAPTER 98: PARKS
Section
   
98.01   Short title
   
98.02   Definitions
Park Regulations
   
98.10   Advertising; posting notices
   
98.11   Birds and animals
   
98.12   Dogs and cats
   
98.13   Riding animals
   
98.14   Begging
   
98.15   Camping
   
98.16   Closing hours
   
98.17   Clothing
   
98.18   Disorderly conduct
   
98.19   Excavation
   
98.20   Fires   
   
98.21   Games and sports
   
98.22   Improper behavior
   
98.23   Community Center restrictions
   
98.24   Drugs
   
98.25   Minors; parental responsibility
   
98.26   Picnics
   
98.27   Day camps and similar groups
   
98.28   Protection of property; reward
   
98.29   Public meetings
   
98.30   Refuse and garbage
   
98.31   Skating and sledding
   
98.32   Weapons and missiles
   
98.33   Baseball and softball playing
   
98.34   Hawking, peddling, or soliciting
   
98.35   Removal of sand, gravel, and similar materials prohibited
Traffic Regulations
   
98.40   Driving other than on roadway prohibited
   
98.41   Driving while intoxicated
   
98.42   Reckless driving
   
98.43   Negligent driving
   
98.44   Starting vehicle
   
98.45   Backing
   
98.46   Equipment
   
98.47   Pedestrians
   
98.48   Parking
   
98.49   Impounding of vehicles
   
98.50   Unattended motor vehicles
   
98.51   Parties to an offense
   
98.52   Parking lots
   
98.53   State traffic definitions incorporated by reference
   
98.54   Speed restrictions
   
98.55   Stop intersections
Conservancy Areas
   
98.60   Trespass or entry prohibited
Reserved Use of Park Facilities
   
98.70   Reserved use of park facilities
Pond Fishing Regulations
   
98.80   Hours
   
98.81   Game laws
   
98.82   Catch and release only
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Parks Chapter of Winthrop Harbor" and
may be so cited and referred to.
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIAL. The Village Clerk or the Chief of Police of the
village.
   PARK. The following park areas in the village: North Prairie Park, Novotny
Park, Fossland Park, Broadway Field, Paxton Park, Village Park, the Garrett-
Langvad Community Center and its adjacent grounds, and the recreational grounds
to the north of the Winthrop Harbor Fire Station.
('79 Code, § 2001) (Ord. 1979-O-26, passed 6-19-79)
   PARK REGULATIONS
§ 98.10 ADVERTISING; POSTING NOTICES.
   (A)   No person shall display any placard or advertisement of any kind in
any park; nor shall any person distribute, cast, throw, or place any handbill,
pamphlet, circular, advertisement, or notice of any kind; nor post, stencil, or
otherwise affix any notice or bills, advertisements, or other papers upon any
structure or thing in or about any park except as herein provided.
('79 Code, § 2002)
   (B)   No person shall post or otherwise affix any bills, notices, or other
paper upon any trees or shrubs within any park, street, or public grounds
within the village.
('79 Code, § 1002(9)) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.11 BIRDS AND ANIMALS.
   No person shall trap, catch, wound, kill, or treat cruelly, or attempt to
trap, catch, wound, or kill any bird or animal or molest or rob any nest of any
bird or animal in any park.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.12 DOGS AND CATS.
   No person shall bring a dog or cat within the park system unless on leash.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.13 RIDING ANIMALS.
   No person shall lead or allow to be loose upon park property any horse,
pony, or other riding animal except in areas designated for riding and by
written permission of an authorized village official. Any animal found within
the park system in violation of this section may be apprehended; removed to an
animal shelter, public pound, or any other place provided for that purpose; and
impounded, all at the expense of the owner.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.14 BEGGING.
   No person shall beg or solicit money or contributions of any kind for any
purpose within the park system except such organizations as have received
written permission from an authorized village official.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.15 CAMPING.
   No person shall place, erect, or use any hammock, swing, tent, or shelter or
otherwise camp or sleep in the park system except such organizations as have
received written permission from an authorized village official.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.16 CLOSING HOURS.
   The parks shall be closed from 10:00 p.m. prevailing time in the evening
until daybreak the following morning except at parks having lighted athletic
facilities where the closing hour is 11:00 p.m., and in neighborhood or
community recreation centers as specified herein. No person or property of any
kind shall remain in the parks after closing hours unless permission has been
granted by an authorized village official.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.17 CLOTHING.
   No person shall enter or remain in the park system unless properly and
decently clothed. This shall include suitable covering of the upper portion of
the body except as permitted at beaches.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.18 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall make, aid, countenance, or assist in making any loud,
unusual, or improper noise, threat, fight, disturbance, nuisance, breach of the
peace, or disturbance of the peace and quiet in the park system, or be guilty
of any disorderly conduct therein, or collect with other persons, in bodies or
in crowds, for unlawful purposes, or for any purpose to the annoyance,
obstruction, or disturbance of other persons or lawful assemblage.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.19 EXCAVATION.
   No person shall excavate or take soil, plants, flowers, shrubs, or other
property of any kind from the park system under the jurisdiction of the
village, except by written permission from an authorized village official.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.20 FIRES.
   (A)   No person shall light or make use of any fire in the park system
except at such places as may be established for such purpose and then only
under such rules as may be prescribed therefor. Every fire shall be
continuously under the care and direction of a competent person from the time
it is kindled until it is completely extinguished. ('79 Code, § 2002)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to start a fire of any kind in the Village Park
without a permit for the same. ('79 Code, § 1002(10))
Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.21 GAMES AND SPORTS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any sport, game, or amusement in the park
system except at such places and times as may be designated by the park and
then only under such rules as are prescribed. Further, no person shall walk,
remain, or conduct himself upon such portion of the park system designated for
any particular game, sport, or amusement in such a way as to interfere with the
use of such portion by persons who are using the same for the particular sport,
game, or amusement for which it has been designated.
   (B)   No person shall engage in any activity in a rough or reckless manner
so as to endanger, injure, or damage persons or property in any way.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.22 IMPROPER BEHAVIOR.
   No person shall use any abusive, threatening, profane, indecent, or obscene
language, or language calculated to occasion a breach of the peace; induce,
commit, or perform any indecent or obscene act or behavior; or exhibit,
possess, or transfer indecent or obscene pictures, writings, or articles of any
kind within the park system.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.23 COMMUNITY CENTER RESTRICTIONS.
   No alcoholic beverages shall be served or consumed in the park buildings or
park grounds unless specifically authorized, after application, by the Liquor
Commissioner of the village, and in conformance with the general regulations
for issuing licenses and permits as set forth in Chapter 110.13(J).
('79 Code, § 2002) (Ord. 1982-O-28, passed 12-7-82; Am. Ord. 1996-O-8, passed
6-17-96) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.24 DRUGS.
   No person under the influence of narcotic drugs shall enter, be, or remain
in the park system, nor shall any person being within possess, sell, or
transfer any narcotic drug in any part of the park system in the village.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.25 MINORS; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent, guardian, or custodian of a minor shall permit or allow such
minor to do any act in the park system in violation of any law, ordinance, or
rule of the parks, and they shall use their best efforts to prevent any such
violation.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
Cross-reference:
   General license/permit requirements, see
Chapter 120
§ 98.26 PICNICS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for persons to assemble in or upon the Village
Park or the Community Center building except according to the rules established
by the Village Board and the Recreational Director. No person shall scatter,
throw, or deposit any paper, food, or waste material upon the grounds of the
park or in the Community Center.
('79 Code, § 1002(6))
   (B)   Picnics requiring fires may only be held in those areas where
fireplaces, stoves, or pits have been provided for that purpose, and upon
issuance of a permit by the park.
   (C)   Picnic permits required under division (B) shall be issued to groups
or organizations who conduct the business of their organization within the
village. Permits shall be issued to individuals or family groups who are
predominantly village residents up to 50 in number. In the case of the latter
group exceeding 50 in number, approval must be given by an authorized village
official. All permits are subject to divisions (B) and (D).
   (D)   Individuals or organizations holding permits and dispensing food, soft
drinks, dairy products and confections, or any products may do so only in the
area designated by an authorized village official. In the event the dispensing
of the aforementioned products is by sale, they may only be sold to the members
of the organization attending the function and not to the general public except
by written permit from an authorized village official.
   (E)   Village residents under 15 in number may picnic without a permit at
parks or grounds provided they are not violating division (B) and (D).
   (F)   Events sponsored by the parks in conjunction with their supervised
recreation program shall be exempt from the aforementioned restrictions.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
Cross-reference:
   General license/permit requirements, see
Chapter 120
§ 98.27 DAY CAMPS AND SIMILAR GROUPS.
   No person or organization shall bring or cause to be brought into the park
system any play class, day camp, or other organized group of any kind,
organized for profit except with the written permission of the village. Not-
for-profit agency day camps, play classes, or organized groups may use
facilities of the park with the written permission of an authorized village
official.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.28 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY; REWARD.
   (A)   No person shall mark, injure, damage, destroy, or take in any way park
plants or property of any kind, or any property of others in the park system,
or otherwise interfere with the use of the park system by the public. No person
shall bring any plant or portion of a plant onto the park system. No person
shall remove, pour, or otherwise discharge any injurious or vile substance upon
waters, grounds, or property of any kind in the park system. No person shall
climb upon any plants, fence, structure, or property of any kind in the park
system, except such recreational equipment as may be installed by the village
for such purpose.
   (B)   The village may give rewards to the person or persons (other than
police officers or employees of the park) who furnish information to the
village directly resulting in the arrest and conviction of anyone who
unlawfully takes, damages, or destroys park property. All claims for said
reward must be made to the village within 30 days after conviction, and the
village shall be the sole judge of any dispute arising over the reward and the
person or persons, if any, entitled to share therein. The decision of the
village on any matter connected with the reward shall be final and conclusive.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.29 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   No person or organization of any kind shall call or hold any public meeting,
exhibition, or entertainment of any kind within the park system unless
permitted by the village. Payment of expenses and indemnification of the park
may be required.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
Cross-reference:
   General license/permit requirements, see
Chapter 120
§ 98.30 REFUSE AND GARBAGE.
   No person shall deposit or leave any garbage, refuse, or other material of
any kind on the park system grounds or waters. Paper, glass, cans, garbage, and
other refuse of any kind resulting from picnics or other proper use of the park
system shall be deposited only in receptacles provided for that purpose, and no
person shall litter, suffer, or cause the park system to be littered in any
way.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.31 SKATING AND SLEDDING.
   No person shall skate, sled, toboggan, ski, slide, or carry on other similar
activity in the park system except at such places and times as the park may
designated for the purpose. No person, while engaged in such an activity, shall
conduct himself in such a manner as to annoy others or to endanger, injure, or
damage persons or property in any way.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.32 WEAPONS AND MISSILES.
   (A)   No person shall bring, carry, or use in any way, knives, firearms, or
other weapons of any kind, or any fireworks or other explosive substances of
any kind in the park system. No person shall throw, cast, or shoot stones,
arrows, or other missiles of any kind within the park system, except at such
places and times as the park may designate for such purposes. No person shall
carry or transport any weapon or missile in any vehicle in the park.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to police officers or members of the
armed services while performing official business in the park.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.33 BASEBALL AND SOFTBALL PLAYING.
   (A)   No person shall engage in games of softball and baseball except in
those parks which have established diamonds and backstops constructed for that
purpose.
   (B)   In those parks having established diamonds, participation in softball
or baseball in areas other than the established diamonds is limited in
accordance with signs or notices posted.
   (C)   In those parks having established softball or baseball diamonds, the
type of participation on said diamonds may be regulated in accordance with
posted signs or notices.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.34 HAWKING, PEDDLING, OR SOLICITING.
   No person shall offer or exchange for sale any article or thing; do any
hawking, peddling, or soliciting; buy or offer to buy an article or thing; or
do any soliciting, taking up any collections, or receiving contributions of
money or anything of value in the park system except as herein permitted or
when authorized to do so by permit from a contract with the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 2002) Penalty, see §
98.99
Cross-reference:
   General license/permit requirements, see
Chapter 120
§ 98.35 REMOVAL OF SAND, GRAVEL, AND SIMILAR MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   The removal or taking away of any sand, gravel, clay, earth, soil, stone, or
other material of any kind or nature whatsoever, from any part of the beach
adjoining and abutting on the park, by any person, either as principal or
agent, for any purpose whatsoever other than for village purposes, on order of
the Board of Trustees, is forbidden.
('79 Code, § 1002(8)) Penalty, see §
98.99
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 98.40 DRIVING OTHER THAN ON ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive any automobile, truck, motorcycle, or motorized
vehicle within any of the parks of the village except on roadways intended for
such traffic. Park employees in the performance of their duties are exempt from
this section.
('79 Code, § 2003) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.41 DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
narcotic drugs shall drive any vehicle within the park system.
   (B)   Upon any trial for such offense, in addition to other evidence,
evidence of the amount of alcohol in the person at the time of the act alleged,
as shown by a chemical analysis of his breath, blood, urine, saliva, or other
bodily substances is admissible, and the result of any such analysis shall give
rise to the presumptions set forth in § 47 of the Uniform Act Regulating
Traffic on Highways, approved July 9, 1935 as amended.
('79 Code, § 2003) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.42 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property.
('79 Code, § 2003) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.43 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   No person shall operate any vehicle upon a parking lot or roadway in the
park system negligently, heedlessly, and without due caution or in a manner so
as to endanger, or be likely to endanger any person or property. All vehicles
shall be driven on the right side of the roadway except on one-way roadways
open to travel whenever possible, or except when carefully passing another
vehicle.
('79 Code, § 2003) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.44 STARTING VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
('79 Code, § 2003) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.45 BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made without interfering with other traffic and with reasonable safety.
('79 Code, § 2003) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.46 EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall drive, move, or cause or knowingly permit to be driven or
moved, in the park system, any motor vehicle which is in such unsafe condition
as to endanger persons or property, or which does not contain two headlights,
tail lights, brake lights, brakes adequate to control the movement of and to
stop and hold the vehicle, a horn, a muffler to prevent excessive or unusual
noise and annoying smoke, a rear view mirror, windshield wipers, and such other
equipment necessary for the safe operation of the vehicle, all in good working
order and constant operation (except motor bicycles or motor scooters and only
if they meet the other safe driving conditions specified) unless approved by
the President and Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 2003) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.47 PEDESTRIANS.
   Every driver of a motor vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
at any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at any intersection;
and any pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at any intersection, shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles upon the roadway. However, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrians upon any
roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
execute proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
('79 Code, § 2003) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.48 PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park or place any vehicle or other property of any
kind within the park system so as to obstruct or interfere with traffic or
travel or endanger the public safety.
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle in any of the following places,
except where otherwise designated:
      (1)   On lawn areas and grounds;
      (2)   In front of public or private driveways;
      (3)   In any position to block another car legally parked;
      (4)   At any place where official signs prohibiting parking or
prohibiting parking for more than a specified period having been posted by the
park; or
      (5)   Basketball courts, volleyball courts, tennis courts, baseball
fields, or specified play areas (except that parking shall be permitted on the
basketball court located immediately adjacent to the Community Center between
the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight on Wednesdays of each and every
week).
('79 Code, § 2003) (Ord. 1980-O-3, passed 4-1-80; Am. Ord. 1989-O-13, passed 5-
16-89 ; Am. Ord. 1992-O-18, passed 8-4-92) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.49 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle parked or standing within the park system in violation of any
law, ordinance, or rule is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Such
vehicle may be removed and impounded and the owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle shall pay all charges and expenses arising out of any
action taken hereunder.
('79 Code, § 2003)
§ 98.50 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, and
removing the keys, and when standing upon any perceptible grade, without
effectively setting the brake thereon and turning the front wheels to the curb
or side of the roadway.
('79 Code, § 2003) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.51 PARTIES TO AN OFFENSE.
   (A)   Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, or
aids or abets in the commission of any act declared herewith to be unlawful,
whether individually or in connection with one or more other persons, or as
principal, agent, or accessory, shall be guilty of such offense.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner, or any other person employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle, to request or knowingly permit
operation of such vehicle upon a roadway in the park system in any manner
contrary to this chapter or other applicable law.
('79 Code, § 2003) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.52 PARKING LOTS.
   No person shall park any vehicle in parking lots of the parks beyond the
normal closing hour of the park system of 10:00 p.m. except where an individual
is attending a function where permission has been granted for a later closing
hour by the village and specified herein. In no event shall any car, except
park vehicles, be parked in any parking lot beyond 11:30 p.m.
('79 Code, § 2003) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.53 STATE TRAFFIC DEFINITIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   All terms in this subchapter shall have the same meaning as that set forth
in ILCS Ch. 625 (Motor Vehicles).
§ 98.54 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   Maximum speed for motor vehicles operating within the village park shall be
the following: Speed limit on Thomas E. Rottmann Memorial Drive shall be 10
miles per hour.
(Ord. 1992-O-18, passed 8-4-92)
§ 98.55 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following area shall be designated as stop intersection: From parking
lots to Thomas E. Rottman Memorial Drive in village park.
(Ord. 1992-O-18, passed 8-4-92)
CONSERVANCY AREAS
§ 98.60 TRESPASS OR ENTRY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall trespass or enter any area or land owned by the village
which is subject to a conservation easement unless such person has obtained the
prior permission of an authorized village official as defined in §
98.01 for the purpose of removing trash or any other unnatural bodies or any
natural bodies as required by sound conservation practices. Any person who
violates any provision of this section shall be fined in accordance with the
provisions of §
98.99.
('79 Code, § 2006) Penalty, see §
98.99
RESERVED USE OF PARK FACILITIES
§ 98.70 RESERVED USE OF PARK FACILITIES.
   Residents of the village shall have the right to apply for a reservation of
certain park facilities owned, operated and maintained by the village. The
following specific regulations of such reservations shall apply in all
instances:
   (A)   Reservations shall be made in writing, upon forms supplied for that
purpose, with the Recreational Director;
   (B)   Reservations shall not be accepted by the Recreational Director when
it appears to the Director that there would be a conflict with any community
activity planned which would require use of the facility;
   (C)   No reservations shall be accepted from any non-resident of this
village, and the Recreational Director shall have the right to refuse any
reservation request which is presented by any person who cannot or will not
provide proper proof of residency;
   (D)   Reservations shall be done on a first-come, first-serve basis, and the
determination of the order of the reservations shall be entirely within the
sole discretion of the Recreational Director;
   (E)   No reservation shall be made for any organization known to the
Recreational Director to discriminate on the basis of race, creed, sex, skin
color, national origin, provided, however, that this provision shall not
prevent a reservation on behalf of a church league or other religious
organization;
   (F)   No organization or individual shall be refused a reservation because
of any religious beliefs, race, creed, sex, skin color or national origin of
that individual or the constituent members of the organization;
   (G)   No organization or group of individuals shall be entitled to priority
in the use of any facility, except for those bona fide community activities
provided for above in division (B);
   (H)   The reservation application shall be accompanied by payment in full of
the appropriate rental fee, as described in the fee schedule on file with the
Village Clerk and the Recreational Director, and which may be amended from time
to time, together with payment in full of the non-refundable service charge;
   (I)   In the event the person or organization desires to withdraw its
reservation, that person or organization shall be entitled to a refund of the
fee paid on the following basis:
      (1)   Thirty days or more prior to the scheduled event: the entire fee
shall be refunded;
      (2)   Less than 30 days prior to the scheduled event: no part of the fee
shall be refunded;
      (3)   In no event shall any part of the non-refundable service charge be
refunded.
   (J)   In the event the person or organization desires to serve alcohol or
intoxicating liquors in connection with his, her or its use of the leased park
facility, that person or organization shall first apply for and obtain a
special event liquor license from the Village Liquor Commissioner, and shall in
all respects abide by the terms of that license.
(Ord. 1997-O-21, passed 10-21-98)
POND FISHING REGULATIONS
§ 98.80 HOURS.
   (A)   In the pond located within Village Park, the hours for fishing shall
be the same as the open hours of the park itself, established by § 98.16
hereinabove.
   (B)   In all other ponds located on property owned or controlled by the
village, hours for fishing shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. year round.
(Ord. 2012-O-15, passed 6-19-12)
§ 98.81 GAME LAWS.
   All rules and regulations of general application throughout the State of
Illinois shall apply to pond fishing, including specifically all licensing
requirements.
(Ord. 2012-O-15, passed 6-19-12)
§ 98.82 CATCH AND RELEASE ONLY.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
98.81, it shall be unlawful for any person to remove any person to remove any
fish from any pond located in a public park or on property owned or controlled
by the village.
(Ord. 2012-O-12, passed 6-19-12)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined
according to the chart of fines set forth at §
39.07 of this code.
(‘79 Code, §§ 2004, 2006) (Am. Ord. 2012-O-12, passed 6-19-12)
CHAPTER 99: TAXATION
Section
Hotel or Motel Occupancy Tax
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Tax imposed; collection
   
99.03   Records; right of village to inspect
   
99.04   Transmittal of revenue
   
99.05   Action to enforce payment
   
99.06   Disposition of proceeds from tax and fines
Municipal Retailer's Occupation Tax
   
99.10   Tax imposed
   
99.11   Report to be filed; payment of tax
Municipal Service Occupation Tax
   
99.20   Tax imposed
   
99.21   Report to be filed; payment of tax
Electricity Tax
   
99.30   Tax imposed
   
99.31   Exceptions
   
99.32   Resales
   
99.33   Additional taxes
   
99.34   Collection
   
99.35   Reports to village
   
99.36   Credit for over-payment, Limitations
   
99.37   Record keeping
Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
99.40   Tax imposed
   
99.41   Collection of tax
Taxpayers' Bill of Rights
   
99.80   Locally imposed and administered tax rights and responsibilities
 
   
99.99   Penalty
HOTEL OR MOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL ROOM or MOTEL ROOM. A room within a structure offered for rental on a
daily basis and containing facilities for sleeping. One room offered for rental
with or without an adjoining bath shall be considered as a single hotel or
motel room. The number of hotel or motel rooms within a suite shall be computed
on the basis of those rooms utilized for the purpose of sleeping.
   OWNER. Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the
operation of a hotel or motel room or receiving the consideration for the
rental of such hotel or motel room.
   PERSON. Any natural person, trustee, court-appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business
trust, institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation,
district or other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee,
operator, user, or owner, or any officer, agent, employee, or other
representative, acting either for himself or for any other person in any
capacity, or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and
duties.
('79 Code, § 1002(24)) (Ord. 1985-O-19, passed 10-1-85)
§ 99.02 TAX IMPOSED; COLLECTION.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax of 5% of the gross receipts
of the rent charged for the privilege and use of renting a hotel or motel room
within the village for each 24-hour period or any portion thereof for which a
daily room charge is made. However, the tax shall not be levied and imposed
upon any person who rents a hotel or motel room for more than 30 consecutive
days or to a person who works and lives in the same hotel or motel.
   (B)   The ultimate incidence of any liability for payment of said tax is to
be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or motel
room, said person hereinafter referred to as "rentor".
   (C)   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel or motel to
secure said tax from the rentor of the hotel or motel room and to pay over to
the Village Clerk said tax under procedures prescribed by the Village Clerk, or
as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
   (D)   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this subchapter
shall secure said tax from the rentor at the time the rental payment for the
hotel or motel room is collected. Upon the invoice receipt or other statement
or memorandum of the rent given to the rentor at the time of payment, the
amount due under the tax provided in this subchapter shall be stated separately
on said documents.
('79 Code, § 1002(24)) (Ord. 1985-O-19, passed 10-1-85) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.03 RECORDS; RIGHT OF VILLAGE TO INSPECT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the Village Clerk or his deputy or representative
shall at all times have full access, which records shall include a daily sheet
showing:
      (1)   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the 24-hour
period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel room where such shall
occur; and
      (2)   The actual hotel or motel tax receipts collected for the date in
question.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, or any person certified by the Clerk as the Clerk's
deputy or representative, may enter the premises of any hotel or motel for
inspection and examination of books and records in order to effectuate the
proper administration of this subchapter and to assure the enforcement of the
collection of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent,
hinder, or interfere with the Village Clerk or the Clerk's duly authorized
deputy or representative in the discharge of the Clerk's duties in the
performance of this subchapter.
('79 Code, § 1002(24)) (Ord. 1985-O-19, passed 10-1-85) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 TRANSMITTAL OF REVENUE.
   (A)   The owner or owners of each hotel or motel room within the village
shall file tax returns showing tax receipts received with respect to each hotel
and motel room during each month upon forms prescribed by the Village Clerk.
The returns shall be due on or before the last day of the succeeding calendar
month and the return shall indicate for what period the return is to be filed;
i.e., return for January receipts is due on or before the last day of February.
      (1)   If the owner's average monthly tax liability does not exceed $60,
the Village Clerk may authorize the owner to file the returns on a quarter-
annual basis, with the return for January, February, and March of a given year
being due by April 30 of such year; with the return for April, May, and June of
a given year being due by July 31 of such year; with the return for July,
August, and September of a given year being due by October 31 of such year; and
with the return for October, November, and December of a given year being due
by January 31 of the following year.
      (2)   At the time of filing said tax returns, the owner shall pay to the
Village Clerk all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   (B)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of 1% per month on the amount of the unpaid tax which remains unpaid shall be
added and collected.
   (C)   Except as provided in this section, all information received by the
Village Clerk from returns filed under this subchapter, or from any
investigation conducted under the provisions of this subchapter, shall be
confidential except for official purposes with the Accounts and Finances
Department or pursuant to official procedures for collection of any state tax
or enforcement of any civil or criminal penalty or sanction imposed by this
subchapter.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the Village Clerk
from publishing or making available to the public the names and addresses of
persons filing returns under this subchapter and the number of rooms covered in
said return, or from publishing or making available reasonable statistics
concerning the operation of the tax wherein the contents of returns are grouped
into aggregates in such a way that the information contained in any individual
return shall not be disclosed. The Village Clerk may make available to the
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, a proper official of the state,
or a delegate of any other state imposing a tax upon a motel or hotel room, for
exclusively official purposes, information received by the Village Clerk in the
administration of this subchapter.
('79 Code, § 1002(24)) (Ord. 1985-O-19, passed 10-1-85) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05 ACTION TO ENFORCE PAYMENT.
   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the
Village Attorney shall, upon the request of the Village Clerk, bring or cause
to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax in behalf of the
village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
('79 Code, § 1002(24)) (Ord. 1985-O-19, passed 10-1-85)
§ 99.06 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS FROM TAX AND FINES.
   The amounts collected by the Village pursuant to this subchapter shall be
expended by the village solely to promote tourism, conventions, special events,
and economic development within the
village or otherwise to attract non-resident overnight visitors to the village.
However, no funds received pursuant to this subchapter shall be used to
advertise for or otherwise promote new competition in the hotel and motel
business.
('79 Code, § 1002(24)) (Ord. 1985-O-19, passed 10-1-85)
MUNICIPAL RETAILER'S OCCUPATION TAX
§ 99.10 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in this village at the rate of 1% of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
subchapter is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5 § 8-11-1.
('79 Code, § 1002(14))
§ 99.11 REPORT TO BE FILED; PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by Section Three of "An Act in Relation to a Tax
upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption" approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   (B)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
('79 Code, § 1002(14)) Penalty, see §
99.99
MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
§ 99.20 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this village in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price of all
tangible personal property transferred by said person either in the form of
tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a
sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 § 8-
11-5.
('79 Code, § 1002(15))
§ 99.21 REPORT TO BE FILED; PAYMENT OF TAX.
   Every supplier or service person required to account for the Municipal
Service Occupation Tax for the benefit of this village shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue required by Section Nine of the "Service Occupation Tax Act", approved
July 10, 1961, as amended.
('79 Code, § 1002(15)) Penalty, see §
99.99
ELECTRICITY TAX
§ 99.30 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations
or privileges: The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each
purchaser.
      (1)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month,
0.552 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      (2)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month,
0.362 cents per kilowatt- hour;
      (3)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month,
0.326 cents per kilowatt- hour;
      (4)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month,
0.317 cents per kilowatt- hour;
      (5)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.308 cents per kilowatt- hour;
      (6)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month,
0.287 cents per kilowatt- hour;
      (7)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month,
0.285 cents per kilowatt- hour;
      (8)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month,
0.280 cents per kilowatt- hour;
      (9)   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month,
0.276 cents per kilowatt hour; and
      (10)   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt hours in a month, 0.271 cents per kilowatt hour.
   (B)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2, the existing Gross Receipts
Utility Tax imposed prior to this section shall remain in effect as follows:
      (1)   For receipts attributable to residential customers, until July 31,
1998; and
      (2)    For receipts attributable to nonresidential customers, the earlier
of:
         (a)   The first bill issued on or after January 1, 2001; or
         (b)   The date of the first bill issued to such nonresidential
customer pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-104.
   (C)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 § 8-11-2, the existing Gross Receipts
Utility Tax imposed prior to this section shall remain in effect as follows:
      (1)   For receipts attributable to residential customers, until July 31,
1998; and
      (2)   For receipts attributable to nonresidential customers, the earlier
of through the last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000, or the date of the
first bill issued to such nonresidential customer pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act
5 § 16-104
(Ord. 1998-14, passed 7-7-98; Am. Ord. 1999-O-9, passed 3-16-99)
§ 99.31 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the taxes authorized by this subchapter may be imposed with respect
to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which
the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by this state or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling or transmitting gas, water, or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retain, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this subchapter for those transaction that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers'
Occupation Tax as authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act. 5 § 8-11-1; nor shall any tax
authorized by this subchapter be imposed upon any person engaged in a business
or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same
rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the village,
whether privately or municipally owned or exercising the same privilege within
the municipality.
§ 99.32 RESALES.
   (A)   Electricity that is delivered to a person in this village shall be
considered to be for the use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the Village
Collector and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity,
and certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially
nontaxable as a sale for resale.
   (B)   If a person who receives electricity in the village claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the Village
Collector for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it
is not liable for the tax imposed by this chapter on any purchases of
electricity and shall furnish such additional information as the Village
Collector may reasonably require.
   (C)   Upon approval of the application, the Village Collector shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
   (D)   The Village Collector may cancel the resale number of any person is
the person fails to pay any tax payable under this chapter for electricity used
or consumed by the person, or if the number was either obtained through
misrepresentation, or is no longer necessary because the person has
discontinued making resales.
   (E)   If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or consumption
and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by this
subchapter directly to the Village Collector on the amount of electricity that
the reseller uses or consumes, and shall collect and remit the tax to the
Village Collector on the amount of electricity delivered by the reseller to a
purchaser.
   (F)   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section shall be
excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the electricity
delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to the Village
Collector the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and any
such additional information as the Village Collector may reasonably require.
(Ord. 1998-14, passed 7-7-98)
§ 99.33 ADDITIONAL TAXES.
   Such tax imposed by this subchapter shall be in addition to other taxes
levied upon the taxpayer or its business.
(Ord. 1998-14, passed 7-7-98)
§ 99.34 COLLECTION.
   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the purchaser
by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser
to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and if unpaid, is
recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
electricity, provided that the person delivering electricity shall be allowed a
credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity, the charges for which
are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if such charges
are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit
such tax. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this subchapter and any
such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt
owed to the municipality by such person delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such
tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons delivering the
electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an amount
equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person delivering electricity for the
expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and filing
returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the village upon request. If
the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the purchaser,
then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the village in
the manner prescribed by the village, Persons delivering electricity who file
returns pursuant to this section shall, at the time of filing such return, pay
the village the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 1998-14, passed 7-7-98; Am. Ord. 1999-O-9, passed 3-16-99)
§ 99.35 REPORTS TO VILLAGE.
   (A)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not
paid the tax imposed by this subchapter to a person delivering electricity as
set forth in Section
99.33 and who is not otherwise exempted from paying such tax shall made a
return to the Village Collector for the preceding month stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   The amount of tax.
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the Village of Winthrop Harbor the amount of tax
herein imposed, provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may,
if he or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total
billings of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return
is made (exclusive of any amounts previously billed.) with prompt adjustments
of later payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the
taxable gross receipts.
(Ord. 1998-14, passed 7-7-98)
§ 99.36 CREDIT FOR OVER-PAYMENT, LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision set forth herein, and in order to
permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the village, if it shall appear
that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under the provisions of
this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law,
then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under
this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that
no amounts erroneously paid more than one year prior to the filing of a claim
therefor shall be so credited.
   (B)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than one year after the due date of
such amount.
(Ord. 1998-14, passed 7-7-98)
§ 99.37 RECORD KEEPING.
   Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay the tax imposed by
this subchapter shall keep accurate books and records of its business or
activity, including contemporaneous books and records denoting the transactions
that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under this
subchapter. The books and records shall be subject to and available for
inspection at all times during business hours of the day.
(Ord. 1998-14, passed 7-7-98)
CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 99.40 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
cannabis at retail at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from such sales made
in the course of such business which this subchapter is in effect. This
Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax shall not be applicable to the
sales of cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to
the provisions of Section 8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 8-11-23). Persons subject to any tax imposed under this subchapter may
reimburse themselves for their tax liability hereunder by separately stating
this tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that such sellers are required to collect.
(Ord. 2019-O-19, passed 10-15-19)
§ 99.41 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   The tax hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce this chapter; to collect all taxes and penalties due
hereunder; to dispose of taxes and penalties so collected in the manner
provided by law; and to determine all rights to credit memoranda arising on
account of the erroneous payment of tax or penalty under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-O-19, passed 10-15-19)
TAXPAYERS' BILL OF RIGHTS
§ 99.80 LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Tax collection. This section shall be known as and may be cited as the
"Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance."
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall apply to the village's
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   (C)   Definitions. Certain words or terms herein shall have the meaning
ascribed to them as follows:
      ACT. The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act."
      CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Village President and Board of Trustees.
      LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The village is charged with the administration
and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents, to the extent they are authorized by the Local Tax
Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator's stead. The Local Tax
Administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this section
to give full effect to this section. The exercise of such authority by the
Local Tax Administrator shall not be inconsistent with this section and the
Act.
      LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the
village that is collected or administered by the village, not an agency or
department of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real
property under the Property Tax Code or fees collected by the village, other
than infrastructure maintenance fees.
      NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
      TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
      TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax, and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such
tax is placed, and with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or
entity required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to
the village.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Winthrop Harbor, Illinois.
   (D)   Notices. Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be
given, the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days
prior to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act
of the Local Tax Administrator. The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax
Administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
   (E)   Late payment. Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required
to be made to the village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered
late unless it is (a) physically received by the village on or before the due
date, or (b) received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the Village of Winthrop Harbor, with adequate postage prepaid.
   (F)   Payment. Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be
applied in the following order:
      (1)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
      (2)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
      (3)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
   (G)   Certain credits and refunds.
      (1)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment, or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
      (2)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
      (3)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed
and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
         (a)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in
writing a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
            1.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject
to the claim;
            2.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
            3.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
            4.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
            5.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with
the claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided however,
that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer
owes any monies to the village.
         (b)   Within ten days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
            1.   Grant the claim; or
            2.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
         (c)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 9% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
   (H)   Audit procedure. Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any
locally administered tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this
section.
      (1)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The tax;
         (b)   The time period of the audit; and
         (c)   A brief description of the books and records to be made
available for the auditor.
      (2)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30
days after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
      (3)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the Local
Tax Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
      (4)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      (5)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
or tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the Local Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the Tax Administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
      (6)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
      (7)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
   (I)   Appeal.
      (1)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
         (a)   The reason for the assessment;
         (b)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
         (c)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
         (d)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund
and collection process.
      (2)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
      (3)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing, and shall
give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
      (4)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within
the 45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a
final bill due and owing without further notice.
      (5)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
   (J)   Hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under division (I) of this section, the Local
Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      (2)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a
continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack
of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
      (3)   At the hearing the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
   (K)   Interest and penalties. In the event a determination has been made
that a tax is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the
tax must be paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
      (1)   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to
be assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax to be 9%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
      (2)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed
within the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late
filing penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a
return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall
be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed, equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
   (L)   Abatement. The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to
waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file
penalty if the Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists
for delay or failure to make a filing.
   (M)   Installment contracts. The village may enter into an installment
contract with the taxpayer for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax
ordinance. The Local Tax Administrator may not cancel any installment contract
so entered unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon
written notice by the Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 days
delinquent, the taxpayer shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If
the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to
demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the Local
Tax Administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without further
notice to the taxpayer.
   (N)   Statute of limitations. The village, through the Local Tax
Administrator, shall review all tax returns in a prompt and timely manner and
inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days
after receiving notice of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for
refund or provide any tax still due and owing.
      (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued by the village
more than four years after the end of the calendar year for which the return
for the applicable period was filed, or for the calendar year in which the
return for the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed, or if during any four-year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of
limitations shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in
which return for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in
which the return for the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax
return was filed by the taxpayer.
   (O)   Voluntary disclosure. For any locally imposed and administered tax for
which a taxpayer has not received a written notice of an audit, investigation,
or assessment from the Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file
an application with the Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of
the tax due. A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to
pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods
prior to the filing of the application, but not more than four years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid, tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the
filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the
Local Tax Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this division must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator, whichever is longer.
   (P)   Publication of tax ordinances. Any locally administered tax ordinance
shall be published via normal or standard publishing requirements. The posting
of a tax ordinance on the Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements.
Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request
at the Village Clerk's office.
   (Q)   Review of liens. The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an
internal review procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for
unpaid taxes. Upon a determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien
is valid, the lien shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is
determined to be improper, the Local Tax Administrator shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
   (R)   Application. This section shall be liberally construed and
administered to supplement all of the village's tax ordinances. To the extent
that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with this section,
this section shall be controlling.
(Ord. 2001-O-1, passed 1-2-01)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
enforcement of, any of the provisions of §§
99.01 through
99.06, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $200 nor more than $300 for the
first offense and not less than $300 nor more than $500 for the second and each
subsequent offense in any 180-day period. However, all actions seeking the
imposition of fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to
the provisions of the Civil Practice Act, ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5 § 1-101 et seq.
      (2)   Repeated offenses in excess of three within any 180-day period may
also be punishable as a misdemeanor by incarceration in the county jail for a
term not to exceed six months under the procedure set forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5 § 1-2-1.1, and under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, ILCS
Ch. 725, Act 5 § 100-1 et seq. in a separate proceeding. A separate and
distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person
shall continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist after
notification thereof.
(‘79 Code, § 1002(24)) (Ord. 1985-O-19, passed 10-1-85)
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of this §§
99.30 -
99.37 shall, in addition to the amount of tax due, be liable for all costs
incurred by the village in collecting the tax, including, but not limited to
the reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs incurred in enforcing the
provisions of §§
99.30 -
99.37.
(Ord. 1998-14, passed 7-7-98)
CHAPTER 100: TREES AND SHRUBS; WEEDS
Section
Trees and Shrubs
   
100.01   Planting; permit required
   
100.02   Trimming or removal
   
100.03   Unlawful to injure
   
100.04   Trees overhanging public way
   
100.05   Attaching wires prohibited
   
100.06   Excavations; trees to be protected
   
100.07   Dutch Elm disease
Weeds
   
100.15   Certain weeds declared to be nuisance; barberry bushes prohibited
   
100.16   Weeds or plants above certain height prohibited; notice to cut
   
100.17   Cutting by village; lien
 
   
100.99   Penalty
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 100.01 PLANTING; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street or
parkway or other public place without first having secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk, and then
shall be referred to the Board of Trustees. All trees and shrubs shall be
placed subject to the directions and approval of the Public Works Committee and
shall conform to all rules and regulations of the village.
('79 Code, § 905) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.02 TRIMMING OR REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to trim, remove, or cut down any tree or shrub in any
street, parkway, or other public place without having first secured a permit
therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk, and
then shall be referred to the Board of Trustees before such permission shall be
granted.
('79 Code, § 905) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.03 UNLAWFUL TO INJURE.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any public
place.
('79 Code, § 905) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.04 TREES OVERHANGING PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street, or other
public place in the village in such a way as to impede or interfere with
traffic, travel, or light on such public place shall be trimmed by the owner of
the abutting premises or of the premises on which such tree or shrub grows so
that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
('79 Code, § 905) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.05 ATTACHING WIRES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree or shrub in any
public street, parkway, or other public place without the permission of the
Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 905) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.06 EXCAVATIONS; TREES TO BE PROTECTED.
   In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall
be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub wherever possible.
('79 Code, § 905) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.07 DUTCH ELM DISEASE.
   (A)   Any tree or part thereof, whether living or dead, infected with or
attacked by ceratocyctis ulmi (the Dutch Elm disease) is hereby declared to be
a nuisance. It shall be unlawful to permit any tree or part thereof so infected
to remain in the village.
   (B)   Members of the Police Department or the Public Works Department of the
village are hereby authorized to inspect and examine any tree in the village to
determine whether or not it is infected by the Dutch Elm disease. Upon
discovering that any such tree is so infected, the owner or occupant of the
premises shall be notified of this fact.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any land upon which
such diseased tree or part thereof exists to have the same removed and burned
within ten days of notice by the Police Department or Public Works Department
that such tree or part thereof is so infected.
   (D)   Where the owner or occupant of the premises concerned does not
properly dispose of such infected trees within the ten days after such notice,
or where the owner or occupant cannot be located, the members of the Police
Department or Public Works Department are hereby authorized
to remove and destroy such infected tree.
('79 Code, § 1002) Penalty, see §
100.99
WEEDS
§ 100.15 CERTAIN WEEDS DECLARED TO BE NUISANCE; BARBERRY BUSHES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any such weeds as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cockleburr, or
other weeds of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the
village are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to
permit any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
   (B)   It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or permit the growth of
the bush of the species of tall, common, or European barberry, further known as
Berberis Vulgaris, or its horticultural varieties within the village.
('79 Code, § 1002(12)) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.16 WEEDS OR PLANTS ABOVE CERTAIN HEIGHT PROHIBITED; NOTICE TO CUT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit weeds, grass, or plants,
other than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants to grow to a
height exceeding eight inches anywhere in the village: any such plants or weeds
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   Weeds over the height provided in division (A) or such as are a public
nuisance shall be cut by the owner, tenant, agent, or person having control of
the premises within five days after notice in writing, signed by the Health
Officer or his designee, to cut the same has been duly served. Service of
notice may be effected by handing the same to the owner, tenant, or agent in
person wherever he may be, or to any member of his household of the age of 15
years or upwards found on the premises, or by mailing the same by United States
mail, postage fully prepaid, addressed to him at his last known place of
residence. Any person failing to cut the weeds as directed by the said notice
shall be guilty of a violation of this section and shall be cited therefore.
Such citation may be made either to the Circuit Court or to the village’s
Adjudication Court.
('79 Code, § 1002(12)) (Am. Ord. 2008-O-20, passed 9-2-08) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.17 CUTTING BY VILLAGE; LIEN.
   (A)   If after ten day’s written notice the owner of the premises fails to
cut the weeds, the Health Officer, Fire Chief, or Superintendent of Public
Works may cause the weeds to be cut. The minimum charge for cutting weeds shall
be $400 per cutting. In the event a larger lot or acreage shall need to be cut
or if other circumstances render this minimum charge inadequate to fairly
compensate the village for its labor, equipment, materials and administrative
overhead, the charge shall be increased proportionate to the actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   The officer ordering the cutting shall keep an accurate record of
expenses incurred in the cutting of weeds on each parcel of real estate,
including the cost of preparing the lien notice and the cost of recording, and
these expenses shall become a lien upon the real estate affected, which lien
shall be superior to all other liens and encumbrances except tax liens. Within
60 days after incurring the expense of cutting the weeds, the officer shall
cause the Village Clerk to prepare, sign and record a notice of lien in the
office of the County Recorder of Deeds. The notice shall consist of a sworn
statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The fact that an initial lien in the minimum amount of $400 is
thereby claimed, and that every time weeds are cut thereafter, that the lien
shall automatically increase by a minimum of $400;
      (3)   The fact that in addition to the basic cost for cutting, there is
also a lien claimed for the expense of the Village Clerk in preparing the lien
in the amount of $200 per notice, together with the recording charges imposed
by the Lake County Recorder of Deeds;
      (4)   The day and date when the expense was incurred by the village.
   (C)   After notice of lien is filed with the County Recorder of Deeds, the
claims set forth therein, and those incurred for similar services for the same
property thereafter shall be a lien upon the real estate described therein from
and after its recording until it is released as provided by law.
   (D)   The lien shall accrue interest on the entire unpaid balance at the
rate of 1 1/2% per month commencing with the date of recording running up to
and including the day that the lien is paid in full.
   (E)   In the event that any legal services are required to collect any such
lien, the entire expense incurred for legal fees and costs shall be added to
the amount of the lien and the same will not be released unless and until those
fees and costs are paid in full.
   (F)   In the event the subject property is abandoned residential property,
the officer may elect to utilize the lien provisions allowed for by ILCS Ch.
65, § 11-20-15.1, in lieu of the lien provisions set forth in divisions (A)
through (E) of this section.
(‘79 Code, § 1002(12)) (Am. Ord. 2008-O-20, passed 9-2-08; Am. Ord. 2010-O-11,
passed 6-5-10; Am. Ord. 2023-O-10, passed 6-20-23)
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of §§
100.01 through
100.06 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which a violation
occurs or continues.
('79 Code, § 905) (Ord. 1983-O-6, passed 4-19-83)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
100.07 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a diseased tree or
portion thereof remains on the premises more than ten days after notice has
been given in accordance with the provisions of §
100.07. The costs of removal and destruction shall constitute a lien on the
real estate concerned, and the Village Clerk is authorized to file a lien with
the County Recorder of Deeds. ('79 Code, § 1002)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
100.15 through
100.17 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. ('79 Code, § 1002(12))
CHAPTER 101: RAFFLES AND LOTTERIES
Section
   
101.01   Definitions
   
101.02   License; application
   
101.03   Not-for-profit organizations
   
101.04   Limitations
   
101.05   Fees
   
101.06   Approval
   
101.07   Conduct of raffles
   
101.08   Records
   
101.09   Manager's bond
   
101.10   Bingo
 
   
101.99   Penalty
§ 101.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, village license fees, and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in the Criminal Code, ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 5 § 28-2(b) conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter in
which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance.
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
('79 Code, § 1408(1)) (Ord. 1981-O-1, passed 1-6-81)
§ 101.02 LICENSE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct raffles or chances
without having first obtained a license therefor pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The license and application for license must specify the area or areas
within the village in which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time
period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time of
determination of winning chances, and the location or locations at which
winning chances will be determined.
   (C)   The license application must contain a sworn statement attesting to
the not-for-profit character of the prospective licensee organization, signed
by the presiding officer and the secretary of that organization.
   (D)   Each such license is valid for only one raffle.
   (E)   The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (1)
or (2) above has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest, or in which such
a person is active or employed;
      (4)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (1) or (2)
above is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or not;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (1) or (2)
above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as defined
in this chapter.
('79 Code, § 1408(2)) (Ord. 1981-O-1, passed 1-6-81) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.03 NOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable, labor,
fraternal, educational, or veterans' organizations as defined under applicable
state law which operate without a profit to their members, which have been in
existence continuously for a period of five years immediately before making
application for a license, and which have had during that entire five-year
period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects.
('79 Code, § 1408(3)) (Ord. 1981-O-1, passed 1-6-81)
§ 101.04 LIMITATIONS.
   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle under this chapter and in accordance with
applicable state law is limited to $20,000. The maximum retail value of each
prize awarded by a licensee in a single raffle is limited to $10,000. The
maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or sold is
limited to $10, and the maximum number of days during which chances may be
issued or sold is limited to 90 days.
('79 Code, § 1408(4)) (Ord. 1981-O-1, passed 1-6-81) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.05 FEES.
   Fees for a license to conduct a raffle or a lottery shall be $10 for each
raffle or lottery in excess of 5 in a calendar year. The fee for the first
through the fifth raffle or lottery shall be $0.
('79 Code, § 1408(5)) (Ord. 1981-O-1, passed 1-6-81; Am. Ord. 1997-O-2, passed
3-4-97))
§ 101.06 APPROVAL.
   The Board of Trustees of the village shall, within 30 days, evaluate and
either approve or disapprove any license application.
('79 Code, § 1408(6)) (Ord. 1981-O-1, passed 1-6-81)
§ 101.07 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent premises on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under
this chapter.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   (F)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his
parent or guardian.
('79 Code, § 1408(7)) (Ord. 1981-O-1, passed 1-6-81) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.08 RECORDS.
   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep such
records and shall handle the receipts from the operation of such raffles as
required in accordance with applicable state statute.
('79 Code, § 1408(8)) (Ord. 1981-O-1, passed 1-6-81) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.09 MANAGER'S BOND.
   All operations of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision
of a single raffles manager designated by the organization in its application.
Further, the manager shall give a fidelity bond as required by applicable state
statute.
('79 Code, § 1408(9)) (Ord. 1981-O-1, passed 1-6-81) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.10 BINGO.
   Notwithstanding any of the aforesaid, any person, firm, or corporation shall
be allowed to conduct bingo games within the village limits so long as said
person, firm, or corporation possesses a state license for conducting said
games and does not conduct said games in any manner offensive to the citizens
of the village. Before any person, firm, or corporation shall advertise or
erect a sign announcing the operation of bingo games, such person, firm, or
corporation shall obtain a permit from the village.
('79 Code, § 1903(6)) (Ord. 1979-O-34, passed 8-7-79)
§ 101.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined an
amount not to exceed $500.
CHAPTER 102: BOAT SLIP TAX
Section
   
102.01   Definitions
   
102.02   Annual tax imposed
   
102.03   Exemptions
   
102.04   Fee schedule
§ 102.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Village Harbor Board of Trustees which is the governing and
administrating body for this chapter.
   GROSS RENTAL REVENUE. All income derived from the annual renting of boat
slips, piers, wharfs and docks without deductions for any expenses or taxes of
any kind.
   MARINA. The North Point Marina.
   OPERATOR. The harbor master and any affiliated company that is in actual
control of the leasing, operations and maintenance of the docks located at the
marina.
(Ord. 1992-O-27, passed 10-20-92; Am. Ord. 2017-O-3, passed 3-7-17)
§ 102.02 ANNUAL TAX IMPOSED.
   The operator shall pay an annual tax as a condition for the renting of a
slip or dock at the marina pursuant to the schedule set forth in §
102.04. As the tax is imposed on a percentage basis after the year 2017, the
operator shall maintain a complete record of all rental fees paid to it from
boat owners and shall remit payments to the Village Treasurer not less than
monthly following receipt of payments. The Village Treasurer shall have the
right to audit the books of the operator for the sole and limited purpose of
ensuring compliance with this provision. Any information received by the
Treasurer shall be kept confidential as it constitutes protected trade
information of the operator.
(Ord. 2017-O-3, passed 3-7-17)
§ 102.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Any boat owned or operated by the U.S. Government or any state;
   (B)   Any vessels or watercraft engaged in the business of the North Point
Marina;
   (C)   Any vessels or watercraft on official business to the North Point
Marina or carrying official visitors to the village or the North Point Marina;
and
   (D)   Any vessel or watercraft docking at the Marina for a period of less
than five days during any calendar year.
(Ord. 2017-O-3, passed 3-7-17)
§ 102.04 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The tax imposed hereunder shall be as follows:
 
Year                Tax
2017                $25,000
2018                1% of Gross Rental Revenue
2019                2% of Gross Rental Revenue
2020                3% of Gross Rental Revenue
2021                4% of Gross Rental Revenue
2022 and thereafter 4% of Gross Rental Revenue
 
(Ord. 2017-O-3, passed 3-7-17)
CHAPTER 103: HAZARDOUS MATERIAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
103.01   Definitions
   
103.02   Establishment of liability for hazardous substance incident, removal
and costs
   
103.03   Extent of liability
   
103.04   Liberal construction
§ 103.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   ABANDONMENT. The act of leaving a thing with the intent not to retain
possession of or assert ownership control over it. The intent need not coincide
with the act of leaving. It is prima facie evidence of the necessary intent to
abandon a vehicle, vessel or container containing a hazardous substance that:
      (1)   The vehicle, vessel or container has been left for more than two
days unattended and unmoved; or
      (2)   License plates or other identifying marks have been removed from
the vehicle, vessel or container; or
      (3)   The vehicle, vessel or container has been damaged or is
deteriorated so extensively that it has value only for junk or salvage; or
      (4)   The owner/operator has been notified by a law enforcement agent to
remove the vehicle, vessel or container and it has not been removed within 24
hours after notification.
   CONTAINER. A receptacle used for the shipment or storage of goods that meets
one or more of the following:
      (1)    Of permanent character and strong enough for repeated use; or
      (2)   A cargo container used to transport or store small quantities of
materials, such as a box, drum, barrel, can or carboy; or
      (3)   Specifically designed to facilitate the carriage of goods by one or
more modes of transportation without intermediate reloading.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of the Village of Winthrop Harbor or his
authorized representative.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE.
      (1)   Any material as designated pursuant to the federal “Comprehensive,
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980,” 42 USC 9601
(14), as amended or as may be amended in the future;
      (2)   Any substance, material, waste or mixture designated as a hazardous
material, waste or substance according to the provisions of 49 CFR or according
to ILCS Ch. 430, Act 35, §§ 1 et. seq., as amended or as may be amended in the
future, excluding highway route controlled quantities of radioactive materials
as defined in 49 CFR and special fireworks as defined in 49 CFR 173.88(d) when
the aggregate amount of the flash power does not exceed 50 pounds; or
      (3)   Any material listed on the Environmental Protection Agency
Pollutants, 40 CFR 401.15, as amended, or as may be amended; or
      (4)   Any material which is classified by the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) as a flammable liquid, a class 2 combustible liquid, or a
class 3 combustible liquid; or
      (5)   Any material which has been determined by the party storing it, or
having control of it, through testing or other objective means, to be likely to
create a significant potential or actual hazard to the public health, safety,
or welfare or to the environment. This definitions shall not establish any
requirement to test for the purposes of this section; or
      (6)   Any material which has been determined by the Fire Chief, through
information based on appraisal and assessment from reliable resources, to be
likely to create a significant potential or actual hazard to the public health,
safety, or welfare or to the environment. The fact that the material in
question is not designated as a hazardous substance pursuant to subsections (1)
through (5) of this definition, or is excluded by the legislation of NFPA
classifications of subsections (1) through (4) of this definition does not
preclude the Fire Chief from determining that the material is a hazard, given
the totality of the particular facts and circumstances, existent at the time of
the hazardous substance incident.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE INCIDENT. Any circumstance involving the release or
threatened release of a hazardous substance, which, in the judgment of an
emergency response authority, whether the emergency response authority is the
village, a MABAS agreement member unit, or a federal or state agency or other
local agency, creates a significant potential or actual hazard to the
environment or to the public health, safety, and welfare excluding risks
associated with hazardous substances in the normal course of an individual's
employment. The term includes those incidents of releasing or abandoning of a
hazardous substance, whether or not such release or abandoning is found to
threaten immediate and irreparable harm, but such term does not include any
release of a hazardous substance authorized pursuant to federal, state, or
local law or regulation.
   PERSON. Any individual, public or private corporation, partnership,
association, firm, trust, sole proprietorship, estate, state or any department,
institution or agency thereof, any municipal corporation, county or other
political subdivision of the state or any other legal entity whatsoever which
is recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties and which is not
subject to privilege or immunity from liability for a hazardous substance
incident.
   RELEASE. Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leeching, dumping,
vaporizing, evaporating, or disposing into the environment, but excludes:
      (1)   Any release which results in exposure to persons solely within a
work place, with respect to a claim which such persons may assert against the
employer of such person;
      (2)   Emissions from the engine exhaust of a motor vehicle, rolling
stock, aircraft, vessel or pipeline pumping station engine;
      (3)   Release of source, byproduct, or special nuclear material from a
nuclear incident, as those terms are defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954,
as amended, if such release is subject to requirements with respect to
financial protection established by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under
Section 1870 of such Act;
      (4)   The normal application of fertilizer;
      (5)   A release authorized pursuant to any federal, state or local law or
regulation.
   REMOVE OR REMOVAL. The controlling, containing, isolating, or stabilizing of
released hazardous substances from the environment or any action as may be
necessary to be taken in the event of the threat of a release of hazardous
substances or such actions as may be necessary to monitor, assess, and evaluate
the release or threatened release of hazardous substances, the disposal of
removed material, or the taking of such other actions as may be necessary to
minimize or mitigate damage to the public health or welfare or the environment
which may otherwise result from a release or threatened release of hazardous
substances. The term includes, in addition, but without limitation, security
fencing, containment barriers or other measures to limit access to or spread of
hazardous substances, provisions of alternative water supplies, temporary
evacuation and housing of threatened individuals, any emergency assistance
which may be provided under the Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
Act of 1975, as amended or as may be amended, pursuant to a MABAS agreement.
   VEHICLE. Any device which is capable of moving itself, or being moved, from
place to place upon wheels or endless tracks. The term includes, but without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, semi-tractor, semi-trailers, railroad engines
and railroad cars.
   VESSEL. Any craft which is made to float upon water or which does float upon
water.
(Ord. 2001-O-16, passed 6-5-01)
§ 103.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIABILITY FOR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE INCIDENT, REMOVAL
AND COSTS.
   (A)   The Village Fire Department is authorized to remove and abate the
effects of any hazardous substance incident:
      (1)   Upon or into property or facilities located in the corporate limits
of the village; and
      (2)   Pursuant to any mutual aid box alarm agreement in effect; and
      (3)   In the waters of Lake Michigan within the harbor known as the North
Point Marina, and also within a distance of one mile from the shore of the lake
where it borders the corporate limits of the village; and
      (4)   Outside the corporate or response limits where the health, welfare
or property of the village or those people within its protection are in danger.
   (B)   The following persons shall be jointly and severally liable to the
village for payment of all costs, direct and indirect, forseeable and
unforeseeable, incurred by the village as a result of any removal or abatement
of a hazardous materials incident and to any member unit of a MABAS agreement
rendering aid to the village pursuant to the agreement:
      (1)   The person or persons whose conduct caused such release; and
      (2)   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
hazardous substance at the time of such release, without regard to fault or
proximate cause; and
      (3)   The person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
container, vehicle or vessel which held such hazardous substance at the time
of, or immediately prior to, such release or threatened release, without regard
to fault or proximate cause; and
      (4)   Any person owning or in control of any real property from which a
hazardous substance is or is threatened to be released.
   (C)   In the event any person undertakes voluntarily or upon order of the
Fire Chief to remove or abate the effects of any actual or threatened hazardous
substance release, the Fire Chief may take such action as is necessary or
desirable to supervise or verify the adequacy and safety of the removal or the
abatement. The persons described in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) of this
section shall be liable to the village for all costs, direct or indirect,
incurred as a result of such supervision or verification.
(Ord. 2001-O-16, passed 6-5-01)
§ 103.03 EXTENT OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The costs recoverable under this chapter shall include the following:
      (1)   Any and all costs and expenses incurred by the village in
connection with the clean-up, abatement, site-management or fire extinguishment
involved in any hazardous substances incident;
      (2)   The actual cost of any experts or consultants needed by the village
in connection with the clean-up, abatement, site-management or fire
extinguishment involved in any hazardous substances incident;
      (3)   Prejudgment interest on the costs and expenses described in
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section at the rate of 9% per annum;
      (4)   Any and all collection costs, including, but not limited to
attorney's fees and court costs incurred by the village in enforcing this
chapter, or in obtaining payment from the liable party or parties hereunder.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, no person shall be liable
for the expense of any fire not involving a hazardous substance incident, and
no person shall be liable for the expense of the extinguishment of a fire
beyond the expenses directly or indirectly attributable to any hazardous
substance that may be present or involved in the fire;
   (C)   Nothing herein shall limit, change or impair the right of recovery or
subrogation arising under any mutual aid agreement, or other ordinance,
statute, regulation or provision of law. No criminal or quasi-criminal remedy
for any wrongful action shall be excluded or impaired by this chapter.
(Ord. 2001-O-16, passed 6-5-01)
§ 103.04 LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to give effect to its purposes,
which are as follows:
   (A)   To shift the burden of liability for threatened or actual hazardous
substance incidents from the taxpayers of the village to those persons defined
as liable hereunder; and
   (B)   To deter potentially liable persons from allowing hazardous substance
incidents to occur; and
   (C)   To protect the safety and living environment of the residents of the
village.
(Ord. 2001-O-16, passed 6-5-01)
CHAPTER 104: SMOKING AND VAPING
Section
   
104.01   Smoking in public buildings and parks prohibited
   
104.02   Vaping and e-cigarette use in public buildings and parks prohibited
   
104.03   Designated smoking areas
 
   
104.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Regulation of tobacco and e-cigarette dealers, see
Ch. 126
§ 104.01 SMOKING IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND PARKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The smoking of cigarettes, cigars, pipes or any other form of burning
tobacco product is prohibited within any publicly-owned building or upon any
publicly-owned grounds surrounding such building within the Village of Winthrop
Harbor.
   (B)   The smoking of cigarettes, cigars, pipes or any other form of burning
tobacco product is prohibited within any public park located within the
corporate limits of the Village of Winthrop Harbor.
(Ord. 2015-O-11, passed 4-21-15) Penalty, see §
104.99
§ 104.02 VAPING AND E-CIGARETTE USE IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND PARKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:
      ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES. "Electronic cigarette" or "e-cigarette" means a
battery-operated device that contains a combination of nicotine, flavor, or
chemicals or any combination thereof that are turned into vapor which is
inhaled by the user.
      VAPING. The use of an electronic cigarette.
   (B)   General prohibition. Vaping, or the use of any electronic cigarette
within any publicly-owned building or upon any publicly-owned grounds
surrounding such building within the Village of Winthrop Harbor is prohibited.
   (C)   Prohibition in parks. Vaping, or the use of any electronic cigarette
in any park located within the corporate limits of the Village of Winthrop
Harbor is prohibited.
(Ord. 2015-O-11, passed 4-21-15) Penalty, see §
104.99
§ 104.03 DESIGNATED SMOKING AREAS.
   While the village does not condone or encourage smoking by anyone, it
recognizes that there needs to be some balance between health concerns and the
right of people to clean air on the one hand with the right of smokers to
partake of tobacco on the other. As such, the village's department heads are
authorized to establish designated smoking areas where smoking and vaping are
allowed. In the process of marking out such areas, the department heads are
instructed to exercise reasonable restraint and make the areas large enough to
accommodate the reasonably anticipated number of smokers, and to locate them at
appropriate distances away from other people or sporting events.
(Ord. 2015-O-11, passed 4-21-15)
§ 104.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this
Chapter 104 shall be subject to the penalties set forth in section §
39.07.
(Ord. 2015-O-11, passed 4-21-15)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111. AMUSEMENTS
      
112. AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS
      
113. BATHING AND MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
114. BROKERS AND REAL ESTATE DEALERS
      
115. FACTORIES AND SLAUGHTERHOUSES
      
116. FOOD DEALERS
      
117. SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND TRANSIENT
VENDORS
      
118. HOTELS
      
119. JUNK DEALERS
      
120. LICENSES AND PERMITS
      
121. PLUMBERS
      
122. ADULT USE LICENSING AND REGULATION
      
123. TAXICABS
      
124. UNDERTAKERS
      
125. VIDEO GAMING LICENSING
      
126. TOBACCO AND E-CIGARETTE DEALERS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
Licenses
   
110.10   License required; application
   
110.11   Bond
   
110.12   Ineligible persons
   
110.13   License creation; classification; fees
   
110.14   Term of license
   
110.15   Number of licenses
   
110.16   Disposition of fees
   
110.17   Transfer and lapses, automatic decrement
   
110.18   Renewal
   
110.19   List
   
110.20   Change of location
   
110.21   Separate license for each location
   
110.22   Revocation
   
110.23   Business manager or agent approval
   
110.24   Sports activity permit
   
110.25   Outdoor beer garden and café regulations
Restrictions
   
110.30   Location restrictions
   
110.31   Closing hours
   
110.32   View from street; inspections
   
110.33   Sales restricted; happy hour regulations
   
110.34   Conduct prohibited
   
110.35   Illinois Liquor Control Act; savings clause
   
110.36   Complaints; investigations; warrants
   
110.37   Sanitary conditions
   
110.38   Employee's health
   
110.39   Age restrictions
   
110.40   Minors forbidden in bars
   
110.41   Managerial responsibility
   
110.42   Social hosting
   
110.43   BASSET certification requirements
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
110.55   BYOB regulations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise defined herein, terms used in this chapter shall have
the meanings set forth in an Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors of the State of
Illinois, approved January 31, 1934, as amended (also known as the “Liquor
Control Act”), ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.
   (B)   SPORTS ACTIVITY. As that term is used herein it shall be given the
broadest possible definition, including, by way of example and not limitation,
the following activities:
      (1)   Badminton;
      (2)   Baseball;
      (3)   Basketball;
      (4)   Bocce;
      (5)   Croquet;
      (6)   Football;
      (7)   Hockey;
      (8)   Horseshoes;
      (9)   Lacrosse;
      (10)   Soccer;
      (11)   Tennis;
      (12)   Volleyball.
   (C)   LIQUOR COMMISSION. As used herein, this term means the local liquor
commissioner designated by ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-2.
('79 Code, § 2101) (Ord. 1998-O-13, 1-30-98; Am. Ord. 2008-O-6, passed 3-18-08)
LICENSES
§ 110.10 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall sell at retail or solicit or receive an order for, or
keep or expose for sale, or keep with the intention of selling, any alcoholic
liquor without first obtaining a license therefor, or in violation of the terms
of such license or of this chapter.
   (B)   Applications for a liquor license shall be made to the Village
President in writing, signed by the applicant if an individual, or by a duly
authorized agent thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath or
affidavit, and shall contain the following information and statements:
      (1)   The name, date of birth, social security number, and address of the
applicant in the case of an individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the
persons entitled to share in the profits thereof; and in the case of a
corporation for profit, or a club, the date of incorporation, the objects for
which it was organized, the names, dates of birth, social security numbers, and
addresses of officers, managers, directors, stockholders owning more than 5% in
aggregate of the stock of the corporation, and any manager or agent thereof who
will actually conduct and control the business at the proposed business
location of the corporation or club in question.
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization.
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
      (5)   The amount of goods, wares, and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
      (6)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
      (7)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar license on premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of such application.
      (8)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this state, or the ordinances of this
village.
      (9)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof or
by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
      (10)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state or of the United States, or any ordinance of the village, in the
conduct of his or her place of business.
      (11)   In the case of an individual or co-partnership, employment history
for the past ten years.
('79 Code, § 2102) (Ord. 1984-O-6, passed 2-7-84; Am. Ord. 1994-O-01, passed 3-
15-94) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 BOND.
   An applicant for a liquor license shall, at the time of application, execute
and deliver a bond in the penal sum of $500 to the village as obligee,
conditioned for the faithful performance of this chapter and the payment of all
fines and penalties by reason of the violation hereof, with security to be
approved by the President or such other person delegated by him or her to
approve the same. The bond shall remain in full force and effect during the
term of the license.
('79 Code, § 2120)
§ 110.12 INELIGIBLE PERSONS.
   No such license shall be issued under this chapter to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village, nor to any person who
has not been a resident of the village continuously for one year immediately
preceding the date of his or her application.
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community.
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state.
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crimes or
misdemeanors opposed to decency and morality.
   (G)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any liquor
license issued hereunder would not be entitled to such license upon a first
application.
   (I)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license.
   (J)   A corporation, if an officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the village.
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent is otherwise qualified or possesses the same
qualifications required of the licensee.
   (L)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to January 31, 1934, or shall have forfeited his or her bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   (M)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued; a purchaser under the terms of a real estate installment contract
shall be deemed to be the owner of the premises for the purpose of this
division.
   (N)   Any law enforcing public official, Mayor, or Trustee, or any official
interested in any way either directly or indirectly in the manufacture, sale,
or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
   (O)   Any person, association, or corporation not eligible for a state
retail liquor dealer's license.
('79 Code, § 2103)
§ 110.13 LICENSE CREATION; CLASSIFICATION; FEES.
   (A)   License creation.
      (1)   The Village Board has the sole power to create licenses upon such
terms and conditions as it deems fit, pursuant to law.
      (2)   A person or corporation seeking to have a license created shall
submit a sworn petition on a form to be supplied by the Village Clerk.
      (3)   An applicant shall be required to submit not less than 12 copies of
the following documents:
         (a)   A lease, deed, or other document demonstrating that the
applicant has, or will have, the right to establish the proposed business in a
properly zoned location;
         (b)   A site drawing showing the exterior of the proposed location,
together with parking and all necessary site improvements to meet applicable
exterior codes, such as ADA and the Illinois Accessibility Code;
         (c)   A drawing of the interior of the proposed location, at a minimum
in planar view, but preferably accompanied by concept drawings showing the
interior and a general idea of the layout, decoration, seating, bathrooms,
kitchen (if applicable) and the like;
         (d)   For restaurants, a proposed menu showing not only representative
food choices, but reasonably anticipated price points;
         (e)   An application fee of $500, which shall be non-refundable, but
which shall be applied toward the initial license fees in the event a license
should be created by the Village Board and the applicant awarded the license by
the local Liquor Commissioner.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the creation of Class E special
event liquor licenses is allowed by simple letter petition by the qualified
applicant to the Village Board. No fee is charged for the creation of such a
license, although other fees set forth in this code may apply to any such Class
E license.
   (B)   Classes of licenses. Liquor licenses and fees are hereby divided into
classes as follows.
      (1)   Class “A” (Tavern) license, which authorizes the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption within the building on the premises specified
in the license and for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the original
package for consumption other than on the premises.
      (2)   Class “B” (Package) license, which authorizes the retail sale, but
not for consumption on the premises where sold, of alcoholic liquor in the
original package. This class is further divided into two subclasses, "B-1" and
"B-2." "B-1" licenses are available only to retail establishments which do not
sell gasoline and "B-2" licenses are available only to retail establishments
which sell gasoline.
      (3)   Class “C” (Club) license, which authorizes the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by a club for consumption within the building on the premises
specified in the license and for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the
original package for consumption other than on the premises. Class “C” licenses
will be issued only to fraternal groups, veterans organizations, and private
clubs.
      (4)   Class “D” (Beer and Wine Restaurant) license, which authorizes the
retail sale of beer and wine only within the building on the premises specified
and to be consumed within the building and in conjunction with the serving of
food on the premises specified only. The retail sale of beer and wine only in
the original package for consumption other than on the premises is also
authorized.
      (5)   Class “E” (Temporary) license, which authorizes the sale at retail
at the place specified in such application for license only, alcoholic liquors
for use and consumption on the premises only for the day(s) specified in the
license. Class “E” licenses shall be available only to not-for-profit
organizations registered with the state.
      (6)   Class “F” (Beer and Wine Package) license, which authorizes the
retail sale of beer and/or wine only, but not for consumption on the premises
where sold, in the original package.
      (7)   Class “G” (60/40 Restaurant) license shall authorize the retail
sale on the premises specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption within the
building and for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in the original package
for consumption other than on the premises. The sale of food to be consumed on
the premises shall constitute not less than 40% of the business’ gross
receipts. Licensees holding a Class “G” license shall be required to furnish
records to the village, not less than annually, and in any event prior to the
date on which renewal of said license is considered, substantiating the fact
that not less than 40% of the business’ gross receipts is derived from the sale
of food consumed on the premises. The Liquor Commissioner, shall have the right
to audit the records submitted to ensure compliance with the sales
requirements.
      (8)   A holder of a Class “A, C, D and G” license may apply for a Class
“H” (Beer Garden) license to operate, outside the structure designated for such
sale, upon those premises a beer garden, or area for use of umbrella or cabana
type structure for serving alcoholic liquors at retail. Such license may be
issued pursuant to written application in the discretion of the Local Liquor
Commissioner. Class "H" licenses are strictly conditioned upon initial and
continuous compliance with the regulations described in §
110.25 of this Code.
      (9)   Supplemental package sale regulations. Establishments holding Class
"B-2" licenses shall be subject to the following regulation: commencing at 12:
01 am on March 1, 2022, these licenses shall no longer permit the sale of
spirits in any container of less than 200 ml.
   (C)   Fees. Fees applicable to each class of license are set forth in the
chart below:
CLASS                    ANNUAL FEE
A                        $3,000
B, including B-1 and B-2 $2,500
C                        $1,000
D                        $2,500
E                        $75 (per event)
F                        $2,500
G                        $2,500
H                        $500
 
   (D)   A non-refundable application fee for applicants seeking a license for
the first time shall be payable upon application in the amount of $250, This
application fee shall be in addition to all other fees required under this
section. This fee shall not be applicable to applicants seeking class E
licenses.
   (E)   A request for approval for a new manager or agent under §
110.23 shall be considered upon written application and payment of an
additional fee in the sum of $250.
(Ord. 2016-O-7, passed 6-7-16; Am. Ord. 2021-O-18, passed 6-15-21; Am. Ord.
2021-O-29, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.14 TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All classes of licenses with the exception of Class “E” shall
terminate on April 30 next following the date of their issuance. The fees to be
paid for such licenses shall be payable annually in full, in advance for the
term on or before May 1 of the fiscal year for which application is made. No
license shall be issued for any part or portion of the fiscal year, except the
whole, and no rebate or refund shall be given for any license issued after the
commencement of the fiscal year.
   (B)   Any issued license shall automatically terminate, prior to the end of
the fiscal year, on the thirtieth day following the closure of the business for
which the license was issued. Notice of such termination shall be sent by the
village to the address of the license holder.
('79 Code, § 2105) (Ord. 1982-O-7, passed 12-7-82; Am. Ord. 1984-O-6, passed 2-
7-84; Am. Ord. 1994-O-01, passed 3-15-94)
§ 110.15 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   This section provides for the maximum number of licenses that may be issued
for each class.
   (A)   The following chart shows the number of licenses that are currently
authorized pursuant to ordinances duly passed by the Village Board prior to the
adoption of an amendatory ordinance on March 17, 2015:
License Class Maximum Number Issued
License Class               Maximum Number Issued
A                           1
B, divided into B-1 and B-2 4 total: 2 for B-1, 2 for B-2
C                           2
D                           0
E                           (no fixed number - special events)
F                           0
G                           7
H                           5
 
   (B)    From and after the adoption of the amendatory ordinance on March 17,
2012, the Village Clerk, serving as the administrative assistant to the Liquor
Commissioner, shall maintain a current list of all authorized licenses, and
shall report to the Village Board promptly at any time there is any change in
the number of such licenses, irrespective of the reason for the change.
   (C)   In the event any license(s) shall be revoked by final administrative
action of the Liquor Commissioner, and any appeals to the Illinois Liquor
Commission or the courts of this state shall have been exhausted, such license
(s) shall be automatically void and the Village Clerk shall decrease the number
of authorized licenses by the number of such revoked license(s).
   (D)    In the event any license(s) shall be allowed to lapse through non-
renewal or relinquishment, such license(s) shall be terminated by operation of
law and the Village Clerk shall decrease the number of authorized licenses by
the number of such revoked license(s).
   (E)   A license shall further be deemed to be abandoned when the business
closes for a continuous period of 30 days, and shall be terminated by operation
of law without further action being necessary immediately thereafter, provided
however, that a business may inform the Clerk and Liquor Commissioner of its
intent to reopen under existing management following remodeling or repairs of
the premises, which will stay running of the 30 day period so long as the
remodeling or repairs are being performed diligently toward completion. The
Clerk shall decrease the number of authorized licenses by the number of such
abandoned license(s).
(Ord. 2015-O-7, passed 3-17-15; Am. Ord. 2016-O-7, passed 6-7-16; Am. Ord.
2021-O-29, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.16 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All fees shall be paid to the Village President at the time application is
made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the Village Treasurer. In the event
the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant,
less any actual expenses incurred by the village in processing the application;
if the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the village’s
general fund.
('79 Code, § 2107) (Am. Ord. 2008-O-6, passed 3-18-08)
§ 110.17 TRANSFER AND LAPSES, AUTOMATIC DECREMENT.
   (A)   Generally. A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for
not to exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as in this chapter
provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, nor subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated.
   (B)   Death of licensee. A license shall descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee,
provided that executors or administrators of the estate which consists in part
of alcoholic liquor may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor
under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the
deceased or insolvent.
   (C)   Lapses. A license shall lapse when a licensee closes business
permanently, or when the licensee fails to pay for and renew a license when it
comes up for renewal. A lapsed license may be renewed if the licensee shall
apply and pay for the renewal within seven days of notice of a lapse, but
failure to renew it within that period shall result in the forfeiture of the
license due to the lapse, and its automatic decrement as provided for
hereinbelow.
   (D)   Transfers. A licensee may apply to the Village Board for leave to turn
in a license and have it immediately reissued to a successor in the same
location. In such instance, the Village Board shall consider whether the
business as currently operated is in good standing, whether the proposed
licensee is qualified under state and local laws to be licensed, and whether
the proposed licensee intends to modify or improve the premises or business
model. Nothing herein shall be deemed to impair the right of an owner of stock
in a corporate licensee from selling his, her or its stock, but neither shall
it excuse the requirement of any such new owner of stock in a corporate
licensee from complying with all other provisions of this Code, including
background checks and providing proper identification and contact information.
   (E)   Automatic decrement. A license which has lapsed and has not been
timely renewed pursuant to division (C) of this section shall be automatically
expunged and decremented from the list of available licenses set forth in §
110.15. The President and Clerk shall maintain a list of such decremented
licenses and shall report promptly to the Board when a decrement occurs. At the
next reasonably available regular Board meeting, the Clerk shall present a
draft ordinance to the Board to finalize and formalize the decrement and to
reflect the reduction in numbers of licenses set forth in §
110.15.
('79 Code, § 2109) (Am. Ord. 2014-O-15, passed 9-16-14)
§ 110.18 RENEWAL.
   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof,
provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose. The renewal
privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested right which
shall in any case prevent the President or Village Board from decreasing the
number of licenses to be issued within their jurisdiction.
('79 Code, § 2110)
§ 110.19 LIST.
   The Village President shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of
all such licenses issued by the President; and shall furnish the Clerk,
Treasurer, and Chief of Police each a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any
new license or the revocation of any existing license, the President shall give
written notice of such action to each of these officers within 48 hours of such
action.
('79 Code, § 2108)
§ 110.20 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only on the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the
Liquor Commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted unless the
proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
under the laws of the state and the ordinances of the village.
('79 Code, § 2111) (Ord. 2008-O-6, passed 3-18-08) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH LOCATION.
   A separate license is required for each stand, room, or enclosure or for
each suite of rooms or enclosures which are not in direct connection and
contiguous to each other, in and from which alcoholic liquor is sold or offered
for sale for consumption on the premises. No license shall be issued for the
sale of alcoholic liquor in any dwelling house, flat, or apartment building.
Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which leads from such premises to any other portion of
the same building or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes, and which
is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use by the public. This
provision does not prohibit any connection between such premises and such other
portions of the building or structure which is used only by the licensee, his
or her family, and personal guests.
('79 Code, § 2112)
§ 110.22 REVOCATION.
   The Village President may revoke any retail liquor dealer's license for any
violation of any provision of this code, or for any violation of any law of the
state pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor.
('79 Code, § 2117)
§ 110.23 BUSINESS MANAGER OR AGENT APPROVAL.
   The licensee is required to have current approval of any business manager or
agent who actually conducts the operation of the business at the location
sought to be licensed throughout the license period.
(Ord. 1994-O-01, passed 3-15-94)
§ 110.24 SPORTS ACTIVITY PERMIT.
   (A)   No license holder shall establish, suffer, allow, promote or permit in
any other way any organized outdoor sports activity upon the licensed premises
without having first obtained a separate Sports Activity Permit from the
Village President under this section.
   (B)   The following basic procedure shall be followed by all license holders
who may wish to obtain a Sports Activity Permit:
      (1)   The holder shall submit an application on the form provided,
together with a plot plan showing the proposed area for the activity and
indicating all natural and artificial bufferyards, fences, berms or other
isolating factors, all proposed or existing lighting in the affected area and
all proposed sound amplification devices or equipment, accompanied with payment
of an application fee in the amount of $250;
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall accept the application, and shall forthwith
determine the names and addresses of all persons and entities owning land that
adjoins the licensed premises or which is within 200 feet thereof;
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall set the matter for discussion before the
entire Village Board on a date not less than 20 nor more than 40 days after the
submission of the application, and, not less than 15 nor more than 30 days
before the hearing, shall both send, via certified mail, a notice of the
application and hearing date to all landowners so identified, and further
publish the same notice at least once, in one or more newspapers published
within the village, or if no newspaper is published therein, then in one or
more newspapers with a general circulation within the village and which is
either published or first offered for sale in Lake County, Illinois;
      (4)   Upon the designated day, the Village Board shall hold a public
hearing on the said application, and shall permit the license holder and any
landowner the opportunity to present any evidence or commentary favoring or
disfavoring the application, provided that the rules of order shall still
apply, and the President may limit or close discussion as may be appropriate
and the Board may consider all evidence that it may deem appropriate, relevant
or necessary to its decision;
      (5)   At the close of all comments, the Board shall vote on the
application, and no application shall be granted except by a favorable majority
vote of the corporate authorities then holding office, provided that the grant
of such permit may be limited or conditioned upon such factors as the Board may
require to best ensure the privacy rights of the adjoining landowners, while
respecting the rights of the license holder to conduct legitimate business
enterprises upon the licensed property.
   (C)   The Sports Activity Permit may be suspended by the Village President
upon written notice for a period not to exceed 30 days and such notice shall
advise the permittee the reason for the suspension and shall be based upon an
incident or pattern demonstrating to the President a reasonable probability
that the permitted activity has or will adversely and unfairly impact upon the
privacy rights of the adjoining landowners or that it has created or will
create a dangerous situation for the patrons of the permittee.
   (D)   The Sports Activity Permit may also be revoked following a public
hearing by majority vote of the corporate authorities then holding office
following a written notice issued by the Village President, which hearing shall
be held at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Village Board within any period
of suspension set by the President, and at such hearing, all persons affected
by the sports activity shall be allowed to voice their opinions and evidence.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision herein, no licensee shall be granted any
Sports Activity Permit if that licensee's property shall lie within 3,000 feet
of any residential property.
(Ord. 1998-O-13, passed 7-7-98)
§ 110.25 OUTDOOR BEER GARDEN AND CAFÉ REGULATIONS.
   Establishments holding Class H licenses for outdoor beer gardens and cafes
shall be subject to the following supplemental regulations:
   (A)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold, served or transported beyond the
established perimeter of the beer garden or café at any time whatsoever, except
to return into the primary establishment;
   (B)   No person shall be in or on the beer garden or café with an alcoholic
beverage at any time other than during the open hours allowed under §
110.31(A);
   (C)   Outdoor loudspeakers or amplified music or sound systems shall be
permitted on any beer garden or café, however any music or audio programming
played on such equipment shall be permitted only when it is not audible at any
point 100 feet from the perimeter of the beer garden or café;
   (D)   The licensee shall be required to adopt adequate internal controls or
rules to limit the noise generated by any patrons or other persons on the beer
garden or café so that the noise shall not be audible at any point 100 feet
from the perimeter of the beer garden or café at any time; and
   (E)   When the beer garden or café is located on a public sidewalk, at least
six feet of clearance shall be afforded in a convenient location for
pedestrians to walk through.
   (F)   The "established perimeter" described in this section shall be
submitted in a legible drawing approved by the Local Liquor Commissioner, and
shall include a physical barrier such as a fence, ropes, chains or other
material that shall clearly define the service area, provided, however, that no
such barrier shall block any portion of the defined area from view by the
public and/or public officials, and provided further that the designed area and
barriers shall not be expanded or altered without the express written approval
of the Local Liquor Commissioner.
   (G)   Occupancy of beer gardens and cafés is limited to 150% of the seating
capacity approved by the Local Liquor Commissioner, and the licensee shall be
required to prominently display the occupancy limit within public view at all
times.
(Ord. 2015-O-23, passed 10-20-15; Am. Ord. 2021-O-18, passed 6-15-21) Penalty,
see §
110.99
RESTRICTIONS
§ 110.30 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for aged or indigent
persons or for veterans, their wives or children or any military or naval
station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering
restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops,
or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on, if such place of business so exempted shall have been established
for such purposes prior to the taking effect of this code. No person shall
hereafter engage in business as a retailer of any alcoholic liquor within 100
feet of any undertaking establishment or mortuary.
('79 Code, § 2113) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.31 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   Hours of operation permitted:
Class A                    Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,   6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
                           Wednesday and Thursday
                          Friday and Saturday        6:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m.
Class B, including B-1 and Everyday from April 1 thru 4:00 a.m. to 12:00
B-2                        October 31                 midnight.
                          Everyday from November 1   6:00 a.m. to 12:00
                           thru March 31              midnight
Class C                    Sunday Monday, Tuesday,    6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
                           Wednesday and Thursday
                          Friday and Saturday        6:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m.
Class D                    Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,   6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
                           Wednesday and Thursday
                          Friday and Saturday        6:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m.
Class E                    Everyday                   11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Class F                    Everyday                   4:00 a.m. to 12:00
                                                      midnight
Class G                    Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,   6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
                           Wednesday and Thursday
                          Friday and Saturday        6:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m.
Class H                    Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,   6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
                           Wednesday and Thursday
                          Friday and Saturday        6:00 a.m. to  12:00
                                                      midnight
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer to sell at retail alcoholic
liquor between 6:00 p.m. Christmas Eve and 10:00 a.m. on Christmas Day, except
that Class “B” and Class “F” licenses may make authorized sales until 9:00 p.m.
on Christmas Eve. On New Year’s Eve, all Class "A, C, G, and H" licensees shall
be permitted to sell alcoholic liquor until 3:00 a.m. on New Year’s Day.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or admit the public to
remain therein or conduct any business in any premises in or on which alcoholic
liquor is sold at retail during the hours within which the sale of such
alcoholic liquor is prohibited; and further, within 30 minutes after such sales
are prohibited, the operator of such premises shall not suffer or permit any
cars of the public to remain on the premises and the adjacent parking area and
such permission or sufferance shall be unlawful.
   (D)   Nothing in the foregoing section shall make unlawful the continued
operation of stores, restaurants or clubs, but no alcoholic liquors may be
sold, given, or consumed by the public after the hours of lawful sale.
   (E)   None of the prohibitions of this section shall apply to or prevent the
owner and/or two employees from being in the premises during and after closing
hours.
(‘79 Code, § 2114) (Ord. 1984-O-6, passed 2-7-84; Am. Ord. 1987-O-22, passed 6-
2-87; Am. Ord. 1987-O-23(a), passed 6-16-87; Am. Ord. 1990-O-24, passed 8-7-90;
Am. Ord. 1991-O-20, passed 9-3-91; Am. Or. 1998-O-2, passed 1-20-98; Am. Ord.
2007-O-4, passed 2-20-07; Am. Ord. 2013-O-21, passed 11-19-13; Am. Ord. 2016-O-
7, passed 6-7-16; Am. Ord. 2021-O-18, passed 6-15-21; Am. Ord. 2021-O-29,
passed 11-16-21; Am. Ord. 2022-O-16, passed 11-15-22) Penalty, see §
110.99 
§ 110.32 VIEW FROM STREET; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
upon the premises is licensed, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article,
or thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed
premises nor inside such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the
interior of such licensed premises from the street, road, or sidewalk at all
times. No booth, screen, partition, or other obstruction, nor any arrangement
of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of such
premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such
premises from the street, road, or sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for
consumption must be so located that there shall be a full view of the entire
interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk. The aforementioned
requirement shall not be imposed upon holders of Class “G” 40/60 restaurant
liquor licenses. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption or where liquor
is consumed after sale shall be continuously lighted during business hours by
natural light or artificial white light so that all parts of the interior of
the premises shall be clearly visible.
   (B)   All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption or where liquor is
consumed after sale shall be open and accessible to any health or police or law
enforcement official at all times, notwithstanding the fact that the hours for
lawful sale are past. Any and all rooms on the premises shall be accessible at
any time to any health officer, police officer, or law enforcement official for
inspection and entry to such rooms shall be granted immediately after the
request for such access without delay.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any place regulated by this chapter to have a
direct internal access space, passageway, or door to any place or space used
for public sleeping rooms, but in the event that there exists any such direct
internal access, entry to such rooms for inspection shall be granted to any
police officer or law enforcement official immediately upon demand without
delay.
   (D)   In case the view into any such licensee’s premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be obscured by the licensee or by him or her
suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, or in case access to any
rooms on the premises or sleeping rooms in direct internal access with the
premises is obstructed or denied or delayed, then such license shall be subject
to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order to enforce the provisions
of this section, the Village President shall have the right to require the
filing with him or her of plans, drawings, and photographs showing the
clearance and the disposition and use of the entire premises including all
rooms and storage spaces within the building.
   (E)   The President and Board of Trustees as local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall have the power to enter or to authorize any law enforcing
officers to enter at any time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine
whether any of the provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations
adopted by the village or by the state commission have been or are being
violated and at such time to examine the premises of the licensee in connection
therewith.
('79 Code, § 2115) (Am. Ord. 1990-O-24, passed 8-7-90) Penalty, see §
110.99 
§ 110.33 SALES RESTRICTED; HAPPY HOUR REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent,
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person or to any
person known by him or her to be a habitual drunkard, a spendthrift, insane,
mentally ill, mentally deficient, or in need of mental treatment. No person
after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give, or
deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years
except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   (B)   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believes or has reason
to believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of
the non-age of the prospective recipient he or she shall, before making such
sale or delivery, demand positive identification, containing proof of age,
issued by a public officer in the performance of his or her official duties.
   (C)   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface such an identification
card, use the identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged
identification card, or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery, or have possession of
an identification card obtained by means of false information. No person shall
purchase, accept delivery, or have possession of alcoholic liquor in violation
of this section.
   (D)   The consumption or possession of alcoholic liquor by any person under
21 years of age is forbidden.
   (E)   The possession and dispensing or consumption by a minor of alcoholic
liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the
consumption by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of the parents
or parent of such minor in the privacy of a home, is not prohibited by this
section.
   (F)   Licensees may offer a discounted drink "happy hour" during any portion
of any day, subject to and consistent with the provisions regulating the same
in the Liquor Control Act of 1934 as amended, subject to the following local
regulations. In particular, the following regulations shall apply to all
licensees other than those strictly selling package goods: It is expressly
prohibited to:
      (1)   Sell more than one drink of alcoholic liquor for the price of one
drink of alcoholic liquor;
      (2)   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price,
except at private functions not open to the general public;
      (3)   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises; or
      (4)   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed
premises, any of the practices prohibited under divisions (F)(1) through (3) of
this section.
('79 Code, § 2116(a)-(e)) (Ord. 1980-O-12, passed 6-3-80; Am. Ord. 1984-O-6,
passed 2-7-84; Am. Ord. 2015-O-23, passed 10-20-15) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.34 CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   The following kinds of conduct on premises in the village licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
   (A)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual
acts;
   (B)   The actual or simulated exhibition, touching, caressing, or fondling
of the breasts, buttocks, pubic hair, anus, vulva, or genitals;
   (C)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva, or genitals;
   (D)   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to view any portion of his or her breasts,
buttocks, genitals, vulva, or anus;
   (E)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live performance
of which are prohibited by the regulations quoted above.
('79 Code, § 2116-A) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.35 ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL ACT; SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   (A)   All provisions of the act known as the Illinois Liquor Control Law as
passed by the legislature and approved on January 31, 1934 and all amendments
thereto are hereby made a part of this chapter.
   (B)   As the Illinois General Assembly revisits the provisions of the Liquor
Control Act of 1934 from time to time and makes amendments thereto, sometimes
not clearly explaining which of these amendments may be mandatory and which may
be optional for enforcement by local Liquor Commissioners and municipalities,
to the extent that any provision set forth in this chapter exceeds the powers
granted to local Liquor Commissioners and municipalities, such provision shall
be deemed to be null and void, but only to the extent necessary to cure the
conflict with state law, and in any event, any and all other provisions of this
chapter shall remain in full force and effect.
   (C)   Any appeal taken from a decision of the Liquor Commissioner shall be
reviewed on the record taken by and prepared by a certified court reporter or
certified shorthand reporter.
('79 Code, § 2118) (Ord. 1986-O-10, passed 6-16-86; Am. Ord. 2008-O-6, passed
3-18-08)
§ 110.36 COMPLAINTS; INVESTIGATIONS; WARRANTS.
   Whenever a complaint is made in writing, verified by affidavit, to any judge
of the Circuit Court of the Nineteenth Judicial Circuit, Lake County, Illinois,
that complainant has just and reasonable grounds to believe and does believe
that alcoholic liquor is possessed, kept for sale, used, or kept with the
intent of using the same in violation of this chapter, or any mash, still, or
other property designed for the making, production, or creation of alcoholic
liquors is possessed in any premises which are not licensed therefor, the judge
may issue a search warrant, which complaint and search warrant shall be in
substantial form and content, and the remedy, relief, and method of procedure
in relation thereto shall be that provided in the Liquor Control Act of 1934
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.). The offender, if found guilty, shall be
subject to the penalties of the Act and of this chapter. No search warrant
shall be necessary for the inspection or search of any premises licensed under
this chapter and the property seized on any such warrant shall not be taken
from the officer seizing the same on any writ or replevin or other like
process.
('79 Code, § 2119) (Am. Ord. 2008-O-6, passed 3-18-08)
§ 110.37 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All premises used for retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the
storage of liquor for sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and
shall be kept in compliance with laws and ordinances regulating the condition
of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption, and in
particular shall be kept in compliance with an ordinance entitled "An Ordinance
Defining Restaurants, Itinerant Restaurants, Food and Adulterated Food,
requiring permits for the operation of such establishments, prohibiting the
sale of adulterated, unwholesome or misbranded food or drink, regulating the
inspection of such establishments, the enforcement of this Ordinance, and the
fixing of Penalties", passed and approved by the County Board of Supervisors
and bearing an effective date of January 11, 1960. ('79 Code, § 2121)
   (B)   In complying with division (A) of this section as it pertains to clean
and sanitary conditions where liquor and food are served for human consumption,
the following shall be deemed acts in violation of and contrary to the standard
for cleanliness as required by this section:
      (1)   Emptied liquor or food containers, food scraps, or other items not
reusable in conjunction with the service of liquor and/or food shall not be
permitted to be accumulated in any area on premises used for the sale of
alcoholic liquor, and the provision for the total removal of items so
accumulated shall occur not less than once each week.
      (2)   Persons operating premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor or food for human consumption are prohibited from maintaining open
boxes, pits, mud, or gravel or clay areas where grease, dirt, or other
substances may, as the result of walking, kicking, playing, or other
activities, such as mud wrestling, cause or facilitate the introduction of said
substances into the liquor or food of patrons frequenting the premises.
('79 Code, § 2121-A) (Ord. 1980-O-5, passed 5-6-80) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.38 EMPLOYEE'S HEALTH.
   (A)   No person shall employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of, any
contagious, infectious, or venereal disease. No person who is afflicted with or
a carrier of any such disease shall work in or about any premises or engage in
any way in the handling, preparation, or distribution of liquor.
   (B)   No person shall be employed in or about the premises used for retail
sale of alcoholic liquor or shall serve alcoholic liquor unless the owner of
such place of business shall have in his or her possession a certificate of a
duly licensed physician under the laws of the state certifying that such person
is not afflicted with or a carrier of any contagious, infectious, or venereal
disease. Such certificate shall be obtained within 15 days after May 1 each
year by every person serving or intending to serve alcoholic liquors, and in
case of employment subsequent to that time shall be obtained prior to such
employment.
('79 Code, § 2122) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.39 AGE RESTRICTIONS.
   No retail liquor licensee shall employ any person under the age of 21 years
for the purpose of selling, distributing, or otherwise handling liquor in any
place where liquor is sold or kept for sale. This section shall not be deemed
to prohibit the employment of persons 16 years of age or older by a retail
liquor licensee for purposes other than that of stocking, selling,
distributing, or handling liquor.
('79 Code, § 2123) (Ord. 1980-O-12, passed 6-3-80; Am. Ord. 1986-O-6, passed 2-
7-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.40 MINORS FORBIDDEN IN BARS.
   No retail liquor licensee or employee or agent of the licensee shall permit
or allow or suffer any minor to at any time attend any bar or to draw, pour, or
mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises, and no retail liquor
licensee or employee or agent of the licensee shall permit or allow any minor
to come upon, be present in, stand in, sit in, or enter any bar room or any
room where alcoholic liquor is drawn, poured, or mixed irrespective of whether
or not such minor is accompanied or escorted by an adult; provided however, a
minor may be permitted to dine in a room used for dining and restaurant
purposes if the room is separated by a suitable partition from the bar room.
('79 Code, § 2124) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.41 MANAGERIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is the duty of the licensee(s) to exercise full management of all persons
employed by the licensee in connection with the service of any alcoholic
liquors or package goods. In the event an employee who is not a licensee
commits any violation of the provisions of this chapter, that violation shall
be considered to be a violation committed by the licensee. In such event, the
licensee(s) shall be separately guilty of the violation and shall be subject to
penalty hereunder as if the licensee had committed the violation in his, her or
their proper person(s).
(Ord. 2008-O-6, passed 3-18-08)
§ 110.42 SOCIAL HOSTING.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply specifically to
this section, provided that the definitions set forth in the Illinois Liquor
Control Act of 1935 (ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-1 et seq.) or elsewhere in this
chapter are not intended to be superseded hereby, but supplemented herewith.
      ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
      CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle, trailer, watercraft or container operated for
the transportation of persons or property.
      EVENT or GATHERING. Any group of three or more persons who have assembled
or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
      HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit an event or gathering.
      ILLICIT DRUGS. Any drug, substance, or compound prohibited by law,
including drugs prescribed by a physician that are in the possession of or used
by someone other than the person to whom the drug was prescribed.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
         (a)   As a natural, adoptive parent, or step-parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian; or
         (c)    As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
the court.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
trust or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any place to which the public or a substantial group of
the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, parks, businesses or parking lots.
      REASONABLE STEPS. Controlling access to alcoholic beverages at the event
or gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages present at the
event or gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the event or
gathering by inspecting drivers licenses or other government-issued
identification cards to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages
while at the event or gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at
the event or gathering, calling for police assistance in the event people under
21 are in possession of alcohol at the event or gathering or advising law
enforcement in advance of departing one’s residence that the owner will be away
and no underage person is authorized to be present and consume alcohol at the
owner’s residence.
      RELIGIOUS CEREMONY. The possession, consumption and dispensation of
alcohol or an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of conducting any bona fide
rite or religious ceremony.
      RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   Certain events and gatherings prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to host, permit, allow, or fail to
take reasonable steps to prevent an event or gathering at any residence or
premises, or on any other property whether private or public, or in any
conveyance, over which that person has control or a reasonable opportunity for
control where illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages are present when that person
knows or reasonably should know that an underage person will or does consume or
possess any illicit drugs or alcoholic beverage.
      (2)   It also is unlawful for any person to fail to take reasonable steps
to prevent possession or consumption of illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages by
an underage person at any such event or gathering. A person who hosts an event
or gathering does not have to be present at the event or gathering to be in
violation of this division (B).
   (C)   Other responsible persons.
      (1)   A person is responsible for violating division (B) of this section
if that person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, conspires with, or
solicits another person to commit a violation of division (B).
      (2)   A person is responsible for violating division (B) of this section
if that person knows or should have known about the committing of a prohibited
act and failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the prohibited act.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   A Person who hosts an event or gathering shall not be in violation
of this chapter if he or she undertakes one of the following steps before any
other person makes a complaint about the event or gathering;
         (a)   Seeks assistance from the Police Department or other law
enforcement agency to remove any person who refuses to abide by the host’s
performance of the duties imposed by this chapter; or
         (b)   Terminates the event or gathering because the host has been
unable to prevent underage persons from consuming illicit drugs or alcoholic
beverages despite having taken all reasonable steps to do so.
      (2)   This section does not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs at a religious ceremony or that is exclusively
between an underage person and his or her parent, as permitted by Illinois
State Law.
   (G)   Fines; penalties. Any person who violates or assists in the violations
of any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have committed a petty
offence and shall be fined not more than $750 for each such violation. Each day
on which, or during which, a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (1)   The first violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine
of no less than $250 nor more than $750.
      (2)   A second violation of this section by the same person within a 12-
month period shall be punishable by a fine of no less than $500 nor more than
$750.
      (3)   A third or subsequent violation of this section by the same person
within a 12-month period shall be punishable by a fine of no less than $750.
(Ord. 2009-O-16, passed 8-4-09)
§ 110.43 BASSET CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, BASSET shall refer to a Beverage Alcohol
Sellers And Servers Education and Training , duly licensed by the Illinois
Liquor Control Commission pursuant to ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-27. CURRENTLY
CERTIFIED shall mean that the employee possesses a BASSET certification that is
not more than five years old.
   (B)   Each and every person serving or selling alcoholic beverages or
package goods in any licensed establishment shall be currently certified in the
BASSET program.
   (C)   Any occasion whereby a licensee permits, allows or suffers a person to
sell or serve any alcoholic beverage or package goods who is not currently
certified in the BASSET program shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Every licensee shall maintain copies of the BASSET certification for
each of his or her BASSET certified employees on the licensed premises and, on
the request of a Winthrop Harbor police officer, or the Winthrop Harbor Liquor
Control Commissioner or his or her designee, shall produce such copies for
inspection and verification.
(Ord. 2013-O-12, passed 8-20-13; Am. Ord. 2015-O-23, passed 10-20-15) Penalty,
see §
110.99
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 110.55 BYOB REGULATIONS.
   The regulations in this section apply to so-called BYOB (Bring Your Own
Bottle) and which are applicable to certain classes of businesses within the
Village.
   (A)   It shall be expressly permissible for restaurants and tobacco dealers
in the village to allow patrons to bring in their own alcoholic beverages and
for the restaurant or tobacco dealer to provide glassware or other vessels to
those patrons, provided they have a village-issued BYOB permit for the same.
Businesses may also provide storage lockers for customers to keep their
alcoholic beverages on premises, but each such individual locker shall be keyed
or coded individually so that no one other than the customer assigned that
locker shall have access to it; provided, however, that the business may
maintain a master key or combination for the purposes of clearing out the
lockers in the event of disuse by a customer or other legitimate business
reasons.
   (B)   To qualify for a BYOB permit, a restaurant shall be required to have a
current license from the Lake County Health Department; and a tobacco dealer
must have a current Class B Tobacco Dealer’s License issued by the Village of
Winthrop Harbor. Further, the qualifying business must not be in arrears in any
fees owed to the village, and no person owning more than 5% of the business
shall have been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor involving dishonesty,
such as fraud or theft.
   (C)   The owner of a qualifying business may apply for a permit by providing
a sworn statement on a form provided by the Village Clerk, submitting to a
background check and paying the annual fee.
   (D)   No business shall allow any person to consume alcohol on the premises
unless it holds a valid current BYOB permit or a valid current liquor license.
   (E)   No person under 21 may consume alcohol on the premises of any
business.
   (F)   Patrons must be served food, cigars or other tobacco products and
cannot simply sit and drink alcoholic beverages at the restaurant or tobacco
dealer.
   (G)   No alcohol may not be consumed in the premises at any time between 11:
00 p.m. and 11:00 a.m. the following morning.
   (H)   Gambling of any kind is prohibited in the premises.
   (I)   Public intoxication is not permitted by this section and business
owners and managers shall promptly eject persons who have become intoxicated,
and, if necessary to call the police promptly for assistance.
   (J)   No employee or owner of the business may consume alcohol on the
premises or be intoxicated while working at the premises.
   (K)   No alcoholic beverages may be poured or consumed by any adult in a
booth or table where a minor is seated, unless the minor is accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian, and is properly supervised.
   (L)   The business shall be permitted to charge a fee for providing
glassware or opening bottles, sometimes known as “corkage”. However, the owner
and employees of the business shall not be permitted to pour any alcoholic
beverage. The business shall further be permitted to charge locker fees if
lockers are provided for customers.
   (M)   The BYOB permit is not considered a pouring license, and a business
which qualifies for a BYOB permit is not considered a liquor licensee or
otherwise qualified to hold a terminal operator’s license as that term is
defined within the Illinois Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et
seq., unless that restaurant also holds a valid and current local and state
issued liquor license.
   (N)   The annual fee of $100 applies to all businesses holding BYOB permits.
This fee is in addition to all other license fees applicable to the businesses.
   (O)   Any proven violation of the provisions of this section shall be
considered grounds to revoke this grant of permission by the Village President
upon not less than three days’ written notice. In the event of such revocation
the affected business may appeal to the Village Board whose majority decision
shall stand as the final administrative act of the village.
   (P)   A violation of the provisions of this section shall also subject the
offender to penalties as provided in the chart of fines set forth in § 39.07 of
this code.
(Ord. 2016-O-7, passed 6-7-16; Am. Ord. 2020-O-1, passed 1-7-20) Penalty, see §
39.07
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of §
110.33 shall be subject to imprisonment in a penal institution other than the
penitentiary for not more than six months for any offense, and shall further be
fined pursuant to the following chart, or both:
 
1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
$250        $500        $750
 
('79 Code, § 2116(f))
      (2)   Whoever violates the following series of code sections shall be
fined pursuant to the chart set forth hereinbelow:
 
Offense Section Number 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
§                     $250        $500        $750
110.25
§                     $250        $500        $750
110.34
§                     $250        $500        $750
110.39
§                     $100        $200        $300
110.40
 
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter other than §§
110.33,
110.34,
110.39 or
110.40 shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $750 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalties imposed pursuant to this chapter,
any person who violates any regulation of this chapter may be required to
complete a duly licensed Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education And
Training (“BASSET”) program. See ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-27. Failure to
complete the BASSET program when so required shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (D)   In further addition, the imposition of a penalty under this section
shall not affect the right of the Local Liquor Commissioner to seek the
imposition of penalties, including, but not limited to suspension or revocation
of any licensee for any alleged violations of this chapter.
('79 Code, § 2125) (Am. Ord. 2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord. 2008-O-6,
passed 3-18-08; Am. Ord. 2013-O-12, passed 8-20-13; Am. Ord. 2015-O-23, passed
10-20-15)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Application of provisions
   
111.02   Licenses
   
111.03   Athletic exhibitions
   
111.04   Audience behavior
   
111.05   Building premises
   
111.06   Indecent shows
   
111.07   Public disturbance
   
111.08   Inspections
Gaming Devices and Vending Machines
   
111.10   License required
   
111.11   Definitions
   
111.12   Illegal devices, machines and acts
   
111.13   Fee schedule
   
111.14   Violation
Bowling Alleys
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Fee
   
111.17   Hours of operation
   
111.18   Noise
   
111.19   Gambling
Billiard and Pool Halls
   
111.25   Prohibited
Circuses
   
111.50   License required
   
111.51   Application; fee
   
111.52   Sideshows and concessions
   
111.53   Parades
   
111.54   Inspections
   
111.55   Cheating
   
111.56   Obedience to regulations required
Motion Pictures
   
111.60   License required
   
111.61   Application; fee
   
111.62   Non-licensed premises
   
111.63   Prohibited pictures
   
111.64   Crowding
   
111.65   Fire prevention
   
111.66   Building requirements
   
111.67   Exits
Theatricals
   
111.75   License required
   
111.76   Fee
   
111.77   Non-licensed premises
   
111.78   Prohibited theatricals
   
111.79   Crowding; disturbance
   
111.80   Fire prevention
   
111.81   Building requirements
   
111.82   Exits
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Video Gaming Licensing, see
Ch. 125
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter, except as to licenses and fees, shall apply
to all public shows, theatricals, circuses, and other amusements in the
village, whether licensed specifically in another section of this chapter or
not.
('79 Code, § 1401(1))
§ 111.02 LICENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which is open
to the public and for admission to which a fee is charged without having first
secured a license therefor; provided that the provisions of this section shall
not be held to apply to those amusements which are specifically licensed by
other sections of this chapter or by other ordinances.
   (B)   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk and
shall comply with the general provisions of the code sections relating to such
applications. Except as otherwise provided, the fee for such licenses shall be:
 
Menageries                       $10 per day
Carnivals                        $50 per day
Concerts                         $10 per day
Exhibitions of inanimate objects $10 per day
Other public shows or amusements $10 per day
 
('79 Code, § 1401(2)) Penalty, §
111.99
§ 111.03 ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate, or exhibit any race between
persons, animals, or vehicles, or any baseball games, boxing or wrestling
match, or any other athletic contest or exhibition for admission to which a fee
is charged without having secured a license therefor. The fee for each license
shall be $10 per day.
   (B)   Sufficient members of the Police Department shall be admitted, free of
charge, to all such exhibitions for the purpose of preserving and maintaining
order.
('79 Code, § 1401(3)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 AUDIENCE BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   The audience of any amusement, show, or theatrical shall be orderly
and quiet at all times, and it shall be unlawful to create or permit a
disturbance at such performance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit or gather such a crowd to witness any
amusement or show as to create a dangerous condition because of fire or other
risks.
('79 Code, § 1401(4)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 BUILDING PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or hold any public show or theatrical
show in any building or premises which does not comply with the requirements of
the code of this village relating to the construction of buildings.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or hold any such performance or
exhibition in any place not equipped with adequate exits; and all exits and
such building or place shall be kept free for access and unobstructed with
proper exit signs.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to smoke or carry a lighted cigarette, cigar, or
pipe on or beneath a stage or in a dressing room of any building used as an
assembly hall with seating accommodations for more than 100 people or in which
theatrical shows, amusements, lectures, or other entertainment are offered,
presented, operated, or exhibited, including the Village Council chambers.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the owner of such premises or of the occupant
in charge to provide and place printed signs on which the words "No Smoking"
shall appear in letters. Two signs shall be on the stage or in the wings
thereof and one in each dressing room.
('79 Code, § 1401(5)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 INDECENT SHOWS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to present,
exhibit, or conduct any indecent show, theatrical, motion picture, exhibition,
or other form of public amusement or show.
('79 Code, § 1401(6)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 PUBLIC DISTURBANCE.
   It shall be unlawful to present any public amusement or show of any kind
which tends to or is calculated to cause or promote any riot or public
disturbance.
('79 Code, § 1401(7)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Police Department and the Chief of
the Fire Department to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, and one member of each department shall be admitted free to each
public show, exhibit, or amusement for the purpose of seeing to the enforcement
thereof.
('79 Code, § 1401(9))
GAMING DEVICES AND VENDING MACHINES
§ 111.10 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every vending machine and gaming device in the village shall be required to
be individually licensed, and each person, firm or corporation that owns any
such device shall be required to obtain a separate distributor’s license prior
to installing or maintaining any such device. All licenses required hereunder
shall be applied for and issued pursuant to
Chapter 120 of this code.
(Ord. 2002-O-45, passed 11-19-02; Am. Ord. 12-O-22, passed 10-16-12)
§ 111.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter (consisting of §§
111.10 through
111.14), the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAMING DEVICE. For the purposes of this section, a gaming device shall be
considered to be any mechanical, electronic or electrical apparatus or
contrivance which accepts money and provides any intangible service to the
depositor of the money. By way of general description, but not limitation,
gaming  devices include juke boxes, pinball games, bowling games, video poker
games and other similar contrivances. However, nothing herein shall be
construed to define licensed Illinois Lottery machines as regulated gaming
devices hereunder, nor shall any video gaming terminal duly licensed by the
Village Clerk pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 125 of this chapter and the State Gaming Board pursuant to ILCS Ch.
230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq. be construed to be regulated hereunder, nor shall any
device designed to allow only human to human interactive games, including, by
way of illustration and not limitation, pool tables, billiard tables, snooker
tables, foosball tables and dart boards, be considered to be regulated gaming
devices hereunder.
   VENDING MACHINE. For the purposes of this section, a vending machine shall
be considered to be any mechanical, electronic or electrical apparatus or
contrivance which is not located completely inside of a building which
dispenses any product or tangible thing upon payment of money without other
human intervention, provided however, that no automated gasoline pump shall be
considered to be a vending machine.
(Ord. 2002-O-45, passed 11-19-02; Am. Ord. 12-O-22, passed 10-16-12)
§ 111.12 ILLEGAL DEVICES, MACHINES AND ACTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, nothing herein shall be
deemed to legitimize or legalize any device, nor to legitimize or legalize any
use of any device, which is prohibited under any other provision of federal,
state or local law, and the payment of any fee or the granting of any license
upon the application of the device owner shall not estop or bar the village or
any law enforcement authority from exercising its jurisdiction under the law to
remove, disable, confiscate or otherwise assume control over any illegal device
or any device used in an unlawful fashion.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, nothing herein shall be
deemed to authorize the use of vending machines for the sale of prohibited
products, and in particular, no vending machine may be used for the sale of
products containing alcohol, tobacco or other products that may be subject to
age restrictions or other regulatory prohibitions on distribution.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, nothing herein shall be
deemed to authorize the use of vending machines for the sale of products which
require a separate license without that license. By way of example, but not
limitation, such products as prepared food or sandwiches may require county or
state Health Department licenses.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to use any vending machine or gaming device in a
manner which violates this section or which violates any other provision of
local, state or federal law.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation in actual or
constructive custody or control of any vending machine or gaming device to
permit the use of the machine or device in a manner which violates any
provision of this section or which violates any other provision of local, state
or federal law.
(Ord. 2002-O-45, passed 11-19-02; Am. Ord. 12-O-22, passed 10-16-12) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.13 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The annual fees for vending machines, gaming devices and for distributor’s
licenses shall be as follows:
      Vending machines:       $10 per machine;
      Gaming devices:       $25 per machine;
      Distributor’s licenses:    $200.
(Ord. 2002-O-45, passed 11-19-02; Am. Ord. 12-O-22, passed 10-16-12)
§ 111.14 VIOLATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation found to be in violation of §§
111.10 through
111.13, inclusive, shall be subject to the penalties provided for in §
111.99(G).
(Ord. 2002-O-45, passed 11-19-02; Am. Ord. 12-O-22, passed 10-16-12)
BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate, maintain, or conduct for
profit within the village any bowling alley, pin, or ball alley without having
first obtained a license therefor, as herein provided.
('79 Code, § 1402(1)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 FEE.
   The annual license fee for any such license shall be $10 for the first
alley, and $5 for each additional alley.
('79 Code, § 1402(2))
§ 111.17 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall keep open, operate, or play upon any bowling alley, ball, or
pin alley licensed hereunder during the night time between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
('79 Code, § 1402(3)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation keeping or
conducting a bowling alley, pin, or ball alley to permit the patrons of the
same to make loud and boisterous noises so as to disturb the peace in the
vicinity. It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause any such noise
in a bowling alley, ball, or pin alley, or to congregate on the sidewalk or
street in front of any such premises in such manner or in such numbers as to
obstruct foot or vehicle traffic along the street or sidewalk.
('79 Code, § 1402(4)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to gamble, to bet, or to tolerate any
form of gambling or betting in any premises used for a bowling alley, pin, or
ball alley.
('79 Code, § 1402(5)) Penalty, see §
111.99
BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
§ 111.25 PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate, maintain, or conduct a
billiard, pool, bagatelle, pigeon- hole, or any other table or implement kept
for a similar purpose in any place of public resort within the village.
('79 Code, § 1403(1)) Penalty, see §
111.99
CIRCUSES
§ 111.50 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct or operate a circus in the
village without having obtained a license as provided in this chapter.
('79 Code, § 1405(1)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.51 APPLICATION; FEE.
   The applications for such licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk, and
shall specify the place in or on which the circus is to be conducted. The fee
for circus licenses shall be $50 for each day during which the circuses are
conducted or open to the public, and no license shall issue without the payment
of the fee.
('79 Code, § 1405(2))
§ 111.52 SIDESHOWS AND CONCESSIONS.
   The license fee for sideshows and concessions operated in connection with a
circus shall be $50 per day; but only one sideshow license shall be required
for any circus regardless of the number of sideshows and concessions operated.
('79 Code, § 1405(3))
§ 111.53 PARADES.
   (A)   No circus parade shall be held in the village without a permit
therefor being first secured; the fee for such a permit shall be $50.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk, and
the route to be followed shall be specified in the permit and shall be approved
by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a bond in the sum of §10,000
with sureties to be approved by the Village Clerk, conditioned to indemnify the
village for any loss or damage to the city property by the vehicles or
participants in such parade.
('79 Code, § 1405(4)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.54 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire
Department to see that inspections as provided for in §
111.08 shall be made of all circus performances and of the premises used.
('79 Code, § 1405(6))
§ 111.55 CHEATING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cheat, shortchange, or otherwise
defraud any person attending or about to attend a circus performance within the
village.
('79 Code, § 1405(7)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.56 OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of every person licensed under this subchapter to obey
the provisions of this subchapter, and all other ordinance provisions relating
to circuses or the premises occupied.
('79 Code, § 1405(5)) Penalty, see §
111.99
MOTION PICTURES
§ 111.60 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to give, present, or conduct any motion picture to
which a fee for admission is charged, excepting performances given solely for
the benefits of and under the auspices of a local school or village religious
or charitable organization, without having first secured a license therefor as
is herein provided.
('79 Code, § 1406(1)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.61 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the
general provisions relating to such applications, and shall state in addition
to the other information required the place of the intended performance and the
seating capacity thereof. ('79 Code, § 1406(2))
   (B)   Any person securing an annual license for motion pictures naming a
specific place or building in which the performances are to be presented may
present therein any number of performances, including theatricals, during the
year for which the license was secured without having to pay any additional
fee. The annual license fee for such licenses shall be $50. ('79 Code, § 1406
(3))
§ 111.62 NON-LICENSED PREMISES.
   For motion pictures which are to be presented in premises which are not
covered by such an annual license, the fee to be paid shall be $10 per day;
provided that no such motion picture shall be presented in or on any premises
or building which does not fully comply with the requirements of the ordinances
for the construction of buildings with sufficient fire exits adequately marked.
('79 Code, § 1406(4)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.63 PROHIBITED PICTURES.
   It shall be unlawful to offer or present any motion picture which has a
tendency to cause a riot or public disturbance; or any immoral, indecent, or
blasphemous pictures or performances.
('79 Code, § 1406(5)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.64 CROWDING.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any person, excepting ushers, to remain
standing in a hall or room in which a motion picture is presented during the
time of such performance; and it shall be unlawful to admit to any such hall
more persons than can be accommodated by the seating arrangements for such
premises.
('79 Code, § 1406(6)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.65 FIRE PREVENTION.
   It shall be unlawful to use any scenery in any theater other than non-
flammable scenery or such as may have been rendered non-flammable by
application of fire preventive coatings.
('79 Code, § 1406(7)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.66 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to present any public motion picture in any building or
structure which does not contain the number of exits required for buildings or
places intended for motion picture performances by the building ordinances or
code of the village; or in any premises in which the electric wiring does not
fully comply with the ordinances. All places used for the exhibition of
theatricals must be kept adequately ventilated during the performance and for
so long a time as the audience may remain therein.
('79 Code, § 1406(8)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.67 EXITS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any aisles,
corridors, or exits leading from any room or enclosure in which a motion
picture performance is being given.
('79 Code, § 1406(9)) Penalty, see §
111.99
THEATRICALS
§ 111.75 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any theatrical performance, with
the exception of motion pictures or other performances specifically licensed by
this code to which a charge is made for admission and which is not conducted
solely for the profit of and under the auspices of a local public school or a
local village religious or charitable organization, without having first
obtained a license therefor, as is herein provided.
('79 Code, § 1407(1)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.76 FEE.
   Any person securing an annual license for theatricals naming a specific
place or building in which the performances are to be presented may present
therein any number of performances or theatricals, including motion pictures,
during the year for which the license is secured without any additional fee.
The annual fee for such licenses shall be $50.
('79 Code, § 1407(2))
§ 111.77 NON-LICENSED PREMISES.
   For theatricals which are to be presented in premises which are not covered
by such an annual license, the fee to be paid shall be $10 per day; provided
that no such theatrical shall be presented in or on any premises or building
which does not fully comply with the requirements of the ordinances relating to
buildings to be used for theatricals.
('79 Code, § 1407(3)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.78 PROHIBITED THEATRICALS.
   It shall be unlawful to offer or present any theatrical which has a tendency
to cause a riot or disturbance of the peace; or any immoral, indecent, or
blasphemous plays or performances.
('79 Code, § 1407(4)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.79 CROWDING; DISTURBANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit any person, other than an usher or
other employee, to remain standing in a hall in which a theatrical performance
is presented during the time of such performance; and it shall be unlawful to
admit into any such hall more persons than can be accommodated by the seating
arrangements for such premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit any disturbance at any
theatrical performance.
('79 Code, § 1407(5)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.80 FIRE PREVENTION.
   It shall be unlawful to use any scenery in any theater other than non-
flammable scenery or such as may have been rendered non-flammable by
application of a fire preventive coating.
('79 Code, § 1407(6)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.81 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to present any public theatrical in any building or
structure which does not contain the number of exits required for buildings or
places intended for theatrical performances by the building ordinances or code
of the village; or any premises in which the electric wiring does not comply
with the ordinances. All places used for the exhibition of theatricals must be
kept adequately ventilated during the performance and for so long a time as the
audience may remain therein.
('79 Code, § 1407(7)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.82 EXITS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any aisles,
corridors, or exits leading from any enclosure or room in which a theatrical
performance is being given.
('79 Code, § 1407(8)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
111.01 through
111.08 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
('79 Code, § 1401(8))
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.19 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense.
The said license may be revoked for any violation of §§
111.15 through
111.19 by the licensee or his employees.
('79 Code, § 1402(6))
   (C)   If a person violates any provision of §
111.25, he shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200 for each
offense.
('79 Code, § 1403(8))
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
111.50 through
111.56 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200 for each offense.
Each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense.
('79 Code, § 1405(8))
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
111.60 through
111.67 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
('79 Code, § 1406(10))
2003 S-12 Repl.
   (F)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
111.75 through
111.82 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
('79 Code, § 1407(9))
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
111.10 through
111.13, inclusive, shall be fined $250 for a first offense, and shall be fined
$500 for a second or subsequent offense. The imposition of any fine hereunder
shall not prevent, estop or bar the village or any other law enforcement agency
with proper jurisdiction from applying for or exercising any other prohibitory
or remedial powers granted to them under federal, state or local laws,
regulations or ordinances.
(Am. Ord. 2002-O-45, passed 11-19-02)
CHAPTER 112: AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Application
   
112.03   Character of applicant
   
112.04   Employees
   
112.05   Exemptions
   
112.06   Fees
   
112.07   False representations
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to conduct an
auction in the village or to do business as an auctioneer without having first
obtained a license therefor as is herein provided.
('79 Code, § 1501(1)) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 APPLICATION.
   Applications for auctioneer's licenses, or for a single auction, shall state
thereon the place of business intended to be occupied, if any, or the place of
such auction; and such applications shall give the names of any employees, not
to exceed two, who are to be authorized to conduct auctions under the authority
of the license.
('79 Code, § 1501(2))
§ 112.03 CHARACTER OF APPLICANT.
   No such license shall be issued to any but a person of good character; the
Chief of Police shall investigate the character of each applicant before the
license shall be issued.
('79 Code, § 1501(3))
§ 112.04 EMPLOYEES.
   Every person licensed as an auctioneer may designate no more than one
employee or co-partner who may be authorized by the licensee to conduct
auctions. The employer shall be liable for any violation of the village
ordinances committed by such employee or co-partner in conducting an auction.
('79 Code, § 1501(4))
§ 112.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be held to apply to any public auction or sale
made or conducted by a public officer by virtue of any judicial order or
process or by virtue of any power or authority contained in a mortgage or trust
deed.
('79 Code, § 1501(5))
§ 112.06 FEES.
   The fees for auctioneer's licenses shall be: for a license for one day, or
one auction, $10; for an annual license, $100.
('79 Code, § 1501(6))
§ 112.07 FALSE REPRESENTATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any auctioneer, or employee, to make any
representations concerning any object, article, or commodity sold or offered
for sale by him at auction which he knows to be untrue or false.
('79 Code, § 1501(7)) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
112.01 through
112.07 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
('79 Code, § 1501(8))
CHAPTER 113: BATHING AND MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
Bathing and Massage Establishments
   
113.10   License
   
113.11   Application; fees
   
113.12   Revocation of license
   
113.13   Personnel
   
113.14   Itinerant operator's permit
   
113.15   Inspection
   
113.16   Sanitation requirements
   
113.17   Restricted behavior; exceptions
   
113.18   Hours of operation
Tanning Salons
   
113.25   License
   
113.26   Application; fees
   
113.27   Compliance with regulations
   
113.28   Revocation of license
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATHING ESTABLISHMENTS. Any building, room, place, or establishment other
than a regularly established and licensed hospital or dispensary wherein are
given steam baths, steam vapor baths, electric tub baths, sponge baths, shower
baths, sun baths, tub baths, mud baths, mineral baths, Finnish, Russian,
Swedish, or Turkish baths, salt glows, massage, fomentation, electric or
magnetic treatments, alcohol rubs, and rubs or massages with or without any
other ingredients.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS. Any building, room, place, or establishment other
than a regularly licensed and established hospital or dispensary where
nonmedical and nonsurgical manipulative exercises or devices are practiced upon
the human body manually or otherwise by any person other than a licensed
physician, surgeon, dentist, chiropractor, or osteopath with or without the use
of therapeutic, electrical, mechanical, or bathing devices.
('79 Code, § 1513(1))
   TANNING SALON. Any building, room, place, or establishment wherein are given
electric cabinet baths, electric light baths, sun baths, or any other method
used to artificially induce tanning of the skin. ('79 Code, § 1516(1)) (Ord.
1984-O-7, passed 2-7-84)
BATHING AND MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 113.10 LICENSE.
   No person shall carry on the business of a bathing establishment or massage
establishment or render attendant occupational or professional services within
the village without first obtaining a license from the village.
('79 Code, § 1513(2)) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   The application for a license shall contain the name and address of
the applicant, the type of business proposed to be conducted or maintained, and
the address of the place where it is proposed to conduct such profession,
occupation, or business. ('79 Code, § 1513(3))
   (B)   Upon receipt of application for the license, the health inspector
shall make a complete and thorough examination of the premises wherein the
applicant proposes to operate the business to determine if the premises comply
with the provisions of this section. The health inspector shall determine to
his satisfaction that such person is in sound physical, mental, and moral
health and of normal intelligence, a graduate of an accredited institute or
school, and as being possessed of sufficient knowledge of the human body and
its anatomy to be able to practice thereon without danger of inflicting bodily
injury or other harm through ignorance, inability, or other personal defects.
The Village Clerk shall require from the applicant references showing the
previous places of employment, if any, and upon being satisfied that the
applicant has the requisite qualifications to engage in such business or
profession may grant a license to such applicant. The provisions of this
section shall not apply to owners, lessees, or employees who themselves do not
practice on the human body.
('79 Code, § 1513(4))
   (C)   The annual fee for the license shall be $300 for each establishment,
and in addition $50 for each operator, renewable yearly.
('79 Code, § 1513(5))
§ 113.12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The health inspector may recommend to the Village President the revocation
of the license whenever it appears that the licensee has not operated his
profession or business in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. When
a license is revoked, the health inspector is directed to call upon the Chief
of Police to close the place of business holding such license until such time
as the licensee has agreed to comply fully with the provisions of this chapter
whereupon the President may reinstate the license.
('79 Code, § 1513(6))
§ 113.13 PERSONNEL.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone under the age of 18 years of age to be
either a patron or employee of a bathing establishment or massage
establishment.
('79 Code, § 1513(7)) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.14 ITINERANT OPERATOR'S PERMIT.
   Itinerant masseurs, masseuses, or other itinerant operators engaging in the
professions or occupations set forth in this chapter shall make application for
and receive a permit to so engage in such professions or occupations in the
manner outlined in this section for each time they enter the village for such
purpose. The provisions of this section shall not apply to persons employed for
such work by regularly licensed establishments.
('79 Code, § 1513(8)) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.15 INSPECTION.
   Each establishment licensed under this chapter shall be open for inspection
by the duly authorized representatives of the village to whom the power of
licensing and supervising such establishment is committed. The health inspector
shall have the general sanitary supervision of all such establishments or
places of business.
('79 Code, § 1513(9))
§ 113.16 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Licensees under this chapter shall maintain their establishments in a clean
and sanitary condition and take all reasonable precautions to safeguard the
safety and health of the patrons of such establishment. All steam rooms, hot
rooms, shower rooms, and dressing rooms shall be constructed of fireproof
material. All hot rooms and steam rooms shall have ventilating systems for the
expulsion of vitiated air. All boiler and furnace rooms within the building
shall be of fireproof construction and equipped with fireproof doors of an
approved design. The partition walls between all the rooms shall be kept
enclosed from floor to ceiling and wall to wall and the doors and walls of such
rooms shall be so constructed and maintained as to insure the utmost privacy.
('79 Code, § 1513(10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 RESTRICTED BEHAVIOR; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Body massage or treatment of the character described in §
113.01 shall not be given by male persons to female persons, or by female
persons to male persons, except in regularly established and licensed
hospitals, dispensaries, or institutions and establishments operating under the
direction or guidance of a physician or chiropractor, and except when
specifically directed and prescribed in writing by a duly licensed physician or
chiropractor. Except in hospitals and dispensaries, authority for each
treatment shall be given on a separate written prescription over the signature
of a physician or chiropractor. This section shall not apply to any registered
nurse operating under the direction of a physician, nor shall it apply to
massage of the face practiced by beauty parlors or barber shops duly licensed.
('79 Code, § 1513(11))
2005 S-14
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to duly licensed
physicians, surgeons, dentists, osteopaths, chiropractors, massage therapists,
or physical therapists; nor do these provisions apply to athletic directors
assigned to schools when engaged in their regular professions or occupations.
('79 Code, § 1513(12)) (Am. Ord. 2005-O-1, passed 1-4-05) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No massage parlor shall be open earlier than 8:00 a.m. and not later than 8:
00 p.m. on any day.
('79 Code, § 1513(13)) Penalty, see §
113.99
TANNING SALONS
§ 113.25 LICENSE.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall carry on the business of operating a
tanning salon within the village without having obtained a license from the
village.
('79 Code, § 1516(2)) (Ord. 1984-O-7, passed 2-7-84) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.26 APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   The application for a license required by §
113.25 shall contain the names and addresses of all persons having a financial
interest in such an establishment, the type of business proposed, and the
address of the place proposed to conduct the business of operating a tanning
salon.
('79 Code, § 1516(3))
   (B)   The annual fee for the license shall be $25 for each establishment,
and in addition $5 for each attendant of such establishment renewable yearly.
Licenses shall be issued concurrently with the fiscal year of the village.
('79 Code, § 1516(4)) (Ord. 1984-O-7, passed 2-7-84) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.27 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   Tanning salons shall be maintained and operated in a clean and sanitary
condition which at all times shall meet the requirements of the state, the
county, and the village. Equipment used in the operation of a tanning salon
facility shall be of a type approved by such appropriate authorities to insure
the complete safety of the users.
('79 Code, § 1516(5)) (Ord. 1984-O-7, passed 2-7-84) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.28 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The health inspector may recommend to the Village President revocation of
the license whenever it appears that the licensee has not operated his business
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The President may direct a
member of the Police Department to close the place of business until such time
as compliance with this chapter has again been met. The President may then,
upon compliance, reinstate the license.
('79 Code, § 1516(6)) (Ord. 1984-O-7, passed 2-7-84)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, corporation, or entity convicted of a violation of §§
113.10 through
113.18 shall be fined in a sum of not less than $25 nor more than $500 for one
offense. ('79 Code, § 1513(15))
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
113.25 through
113.28 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
('79 Code, § 1516(7)) (Ord. 1984-O-7, passed 2-7-84)
CHAPTER 114: BROKERS AND REAL ESTATE DEALERS
Section
Brokers
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   Applications; fee
   
114.03   Fraud
Real Estate Dealers
   
114.10   License required
   
114.11   Fee
   
114.12   Fraudulent practices
 
   
114.99   Penalty
BROKERS
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate as a broker of any articles,
goods, property, or tickets without being licensed therefor as is herein
provided; provided that this section shall not be construed to require an
additional village license from licensed real estate brokers.
('79 Code, § 1502(1)) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 APPLICATIONS; FEE.
   (A)   Applications for brokers licenses shall be made in writing to the
Village Clerk and shall state the article or property intended to be traded in.
No such license shall be issued to any person who is not a person of good
character, and it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make or cause to
be made an investigation into the character of such applicant. ('79 Code, §
1502(2))
   (B)   The annual fee for brokers shall be $20 and no license shall be issued
except on the payment of the fee.
('79 Code, § 1502(2))
§ 114.03 FRAUD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating as a broker of any article or
goods to practice fraud or deception of any sort or to make false pretenses of
any kind, or to represent both parties to a
transaction without the knowledge of both parties.
('79 Code, § 1502(5)) Penalty, see §
114.99
REAL ESTATE DEALERS
§ 114.10 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate or conduct the business of
real estate broker without first being licensed therefor. Applications for
licenses shall be made in writings to the Village Clerk, and no license shall
be issued to any person or firm which has not obtained a certificate of
registration as required by the law of this state.
('79 Code, § 1508(1)) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.11 FEE.
   The annual license fee for such licenses shall be $10, and no license shall
be issued except upon payment of this fee.
('79 Code, § 1508(2))
§ 114.12 FRAUDULENT PRACTICES.
   No such license shall be issued to any person or firm which has been found
guilty of fraudulent practices in violation of the state statute in relation to
real estate brokers. Any real estate brokers licenses may be revoked for such
fraudulent practices.
('79 Code, § 1508(3))
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violation or failing to comply
with any provision of §§
114.01 or
114.02 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed on each and every
day on which a violation of §§
114.01 or
114.02 occurs or continues. ('79 Code, § 1502(4))
      (2)   Any person licensed under the provisions of §§
114.01 and
114.02 who is guilty of a violation of §
114.03 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 and any broker
license may be revoked upon two or more violations of §
114.03. ('79 Code, § 1502(6))
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
114.10 through
114.12 or any state statute in relation to real estate brokers shall be fined
$100 for each offense; and each day upon which a violation occurs or continues
shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
('79 Code, § 1508(4))
CHAPTER 115: FACTORIES AND SLAUGHTERHOUSES
Section
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   Applications; fee
   
115.03   Frontage consents
   
115.04   Zoning
   
115.05   Unwholesome businesses
   
115.06   Slaughterhouses
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or maintain any foundry or machine shop
within the village without having first secured a license therefor as is herein
provided.
('79 Code, § 1503(1)) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02 APPLICATIONS; FEE.
   (A)   Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk. But no such licenses shall be issued except upon the express order of
the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 1503(2))
   (B)   The annual fee for such licenses other than machine shop licenses
shall be $100.
('79 Code, § 1503(3))
§ 115.03 FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish any factory or establishment mentioned in
§§
115.01 and
115.02 in any place where a majority of the premises within a radius of 500
feet are used for residence purposes without the consent of the owners of two-
thirds of all the premises within such radius. Such frontage consents must be
obtained and filed with the Village Clerk before a license will be issued.
('79 Code, § 1503(4)) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 ZONING.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to permit the
establishment of any factory or place of business in any location where such
factory or place of business is prohibited by the zoning code.
('79 Code, § 1503(5))
§ 115.05 UNWHOLESOME BUSINESSES.
   It shall be unlawful to establish any unwholesome business or businesses or
factory causing noxious odors within the village or within one mile of the
village limits.
('79 Code, § 1503(6)) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 SLAUGHTERHOUSES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or maintain any rendery, tallow chandlery,
soap factory, glue factory, tannery, packing plant, slaughterhouse, or other
similar operations within the village or within one mile and one half of the
limits thereof without having first secured the permission of the Village
President and Board of Trustees and the proper zoning.
('79 Code, § 1503(7)) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a violation occurs
or continues.
('79 Code, § 1503(8))
CHAPTER 116: FOOD DEALERS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
Food Dealers
   
116.10   License
   
116.11   Applications; renewals
   
116.12   Fees; issuance
   
116.13   Flies and vermin
   
116.14   Unwholesome food
   
116.15   Revocation or suspension of license
   
116.16   Appeal of revocation or suspension
   
116.17   Employees
   
116.18   Inspection
   
116.19   Toilet facilities
   
116.20   Waste disposal
   
116.21   Food and drink
Food Trucks
   
116.30   Festival ground food trucks
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION. All food and drink intended for human
consumption
including packaged, non-readily perishable food, such as candy, chewing gum,
nut meats, and other such foods. ('79 Code, § 1203(2))
   ITINERANT RESTAURANT. A restaurant operating for a temporary period not to
exceed ten days in connection with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition,
or other similar gathering.
   PREPACKAGED FOOD VENDOR. Any establishment or business which dispenses or
sells prepackaged, non-readily perishable food, such as candy, chewing gum, nut
meats, potato chips, pretzels, popcorn, and bottled soft drink beverages on its
premises.
   RESTAURANT. Includes any place where food or drink (other than alcoholic
liquor) is prepared or served to the public for consumption, including and not
limited to a RESTAURANT, coffee house, ice cream parlor, luncheonette, tavern,
mobile sandwich stand, soda fountain, and mini-mart.
('79 Code, § 1203(3)) (Am. Ord. 1989-O-29, passed 8-1-89)
   TOBACCO AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Cigarettes, cigars, or tobacco in any form
intended for human use. All products containing tobacco, including, without
limitation, cigarettes, cigars, loose tobacco, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco,
snuff and whole leaf tobacco.
('79 Code, § 1204(2)) (Ord. 1998-O-6, passed 2-17-98)
   VENDING MACHINE. Any self-service device offered for public use which
dispenses unit servings of food or beverage either in bulk or package, without
the necessity of replenishing the device between each vending operation,
including, but not limited to coin- or token-operated devices.
('79 Code, § 1203(3))
FOOD DEALERS
§ 116.10 LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any food dealer including restaurant, coffee house,
ice cream parlor, luncheonette, tavern, mobile sandwich stand, soda fountain,
or alike operators to operate such establishment without first having secured a
license therefor. No person shall operate a restaurant or itinerant restaurant
without first obtaining a license as provided herein; except that of a
nonprofit, mutual benefit society is not required to secure a license for an
itinerant restaurant, but is otherwise required to comply. It shall be likewise
unlawful for any person to install, maintain, use, or permit the installation,
maintenance, or use upon his premises of automatic coin-operated machines for
the sale of food for human consumption, without having first procured a license
therefor for each machine; provided, nothing in the foregoing shall be
construed to require the licensing of automatic vending machines containing
milk in carton containers. Applications for such licenses shall be made to the
Village Clerk, and shall recite the name and address, both business and
residence, of the applicant and the nature of the business or activity. The
proper fee shall be paid to the Village Clerk, who shall turn it over to the
Village Treasurer forthwith.
('79 Code, § 1203(1)) (Am. Ord. 1989-O-29, passed 8-1-89) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11 APPLICATIONS; RENEWALS.
   All applications for licenses, and all renewals of licenses to conduct a
restaurant, coffee house, or ice cream parlor shall be referred to the county
health department and the village health officer who shall make or cause to be
made an investigation of the premises to be used, and report these findings
thereon, recommending or advising against the issuance or renewal of the
license.
('79 Code, § 1203(4))
§ 116.12 FEES; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The application fees for the licenses required by this section shall
be as follows:
 
Restaurant                  $100 per year
Itinerant restaurant        $100 per year
Prepackaged food vendor     $50 per year
Festival ground food trucks
   (See §               $300 per year
116.30)
 
   (B)   All licenses shall be issued by the Village Clerk for a period from
May 1 and ending April 30 of the following year, except the itinerant
restaurant license which shall be issued for a ten-day period as designated by
the village health officer.
   (C)   No license shall be prorated for a portion of a year, and no
application fee shall be refundable after an application has been submitted to
the Village Clerk.
   (D)   All vending machine licenses shall be affixed to the vending machine
or on a surface area immediately adjacent to said machine, which is visible to
the public.
   (E)   No person, business, or establishment shall be allowed to obtain more
than two itinerant restaurant licenses during any calendar year.
(‘79 Code, § 1203(7)) (Am. Ord. 1989-O-29, passed 8-1-89; Am. Ord. 2014-O-4,
passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2014-O-6, passed 5-6-14; Am. Ord. 2024-O-17, passed
11-19-24)
§ 116.13 FLIES AND VERMIN.
   Premises used for the storage of food intended for human consumption shall
be kept free from flies and vermin of all kinds.
('79 Code, § 1203(6)) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.14 UNWHOLESOME FOOD.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall offer for sale, or keep for the
purpose of selling or offering for sale, any food of any kind intended for
human consumption which is spoiled or tainted or is unwholesome and unfit for
consumption for any reason.
   (B)   All tainted or unwholesome food intended for human consumption may be
condemned by the Lake County Health Department, and shall thereupon be seized
and destroyed by the health officer or any police officer.
(‘79 Code, § 1203(5)) (Am. Ord. 2024-O-17, passed 11-19-24) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.15 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Licenses may be revoked or suspended by the Village President for any of the
following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statement contained in the
application for license.
   (B)   Conducting such licensed activity in such a manner as to constitute a
breach of the peace, or a menace to the health, safety, or welfare of the
public, upon the recommendation of the appropriate village official.
   (C)   Actions unauthorized by or beyond the scope of the license granted.
   (D)   Violations of any village code or ordinance applicable to the business
or activity for which the license was granted, or violations of any regulations
or laws of the state so applicable.
('79 Code, § 1203(8))
§ 116.16 APPEAL OF REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any person aggrieved by the suspension or revocation of a license shall have
the right to a hearing before the Village President provided a written request
is filed with the Village Clerk within ten days after the receipt of the notice
of such action.
('79 Code, § 1203(9))
§ 116.17 EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All persons engaged in handling or coming in contact with food
intended for sale for human consumption shall keep themselves clean, both as to
person and clothing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier
of any infectious or contagious disease to handle or be engaged in the care or
preparation of any such food; and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
person to be employed in or about any premises where food is stored, prepared,
or sold, or to deliver such food.
('79 Code, § 1203(10)) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.18 INSPECTION.
   (A)   At least once every six months the county health department will cause
an inspection to be made of every restaurant, coffee house, and ice cream
parlor located within the village. In case the health department discovers the
violation of any item of sanitation, it shall make a second inspection after
the lapse of such time as it deems necessary for the defect to be remedied. Any
violation of the same requirement of this chapter found on such second
inspection shall authorize immediate revocation of license.
   (B)   One copy of the inspection report shall be posted by the health
department upon an inside wall of the restaurant, coffee house, or ice cream
parlor and said inspection report shall not be defaced or removed by any person
except the health department. One copy of the inspection report shall be filed
with the records of the health department.
   (C)   The person operating the restaurant, coffee house, or ice cream parlor
shall, upon request of the agent of the health department, permit access to all
parts of the establishment and shall permit copying of all records of food
purchases.
('79 Code, § 1203(11)) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.19 TOILET FACILITIES.
   Every restaurant, coffee house, or ice cream parlor shall be provided with
adequate and conveniently located toilet facilities for its employees,
conforming with the ordinances of the village. In restaurants, coffee houses,
or ice cream parlors hereafter constructed, toilet rooms shall not open
directly into any room in which food, drink, or utensils are handled or stored.
The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self- closing. Toilet rooms shall be
kept in a clean condition, in good repair, and well lighted and ventilated.
Hand washing signs shall be posted in each toilet room used by employees.
('79 Code, § 1203(12)) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.20 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   All wastes shall be properly disposed of, and all garbage and trash shall be
kept in suitable receptacles, in such manner as not to become a nuisance.
('79 Code, § 1203(13)) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.21 FOOD AND DRINK.
   All food and drink shall be clean, wholesome, free from spoilage, and so
prepared as to be safe for human consumption. All milk, fluid milk products,
ice cream, and other frozen desserts served shall be from approved sources.
Milk and fluid milk products shall be served in the individual original
containers in which they were received from the distributor or from a bulk
container equipped with an approved dispensing device; provided that this
requirement shall not apply to cream, which may be served from the original
carton or from a dispenser approved for such service. All oysters, clams, and
mussels shall be from approved sources, and if shucked shall be kept until used
in the containers in which they were placed at the shucking plant.
('79 Code, § 1203(14)) Penalty, see §
116.99
FOOD TRUCKS
§ 116.30 FESTIVAL GROUND FOOD TRUCKS.
   This section permits the owners and operators of festival grounds to operate
or contract with operators of mobile food trucks to provide wholesome food to
tourists, visitors and the general public throughout the year, subject to the
following specific regulations:
   (A)   FESTIVAL GROUNDS means a contiguous parcel of land of at least eight
acres in size;
   (B)   There shall be no more than five food trucks allowed to operate on
each festival grounds site at any time:
   (C)   The owner or occupant of the land is solely responsible for ensuring
that all food trucks on the festival grounds have proper licensing from the
Lake County Health Department and remit all sales taxes to the State of
Illinois Department of Revenue. as well as comply with all local and state laws
that relate to their operation:
   (D)   Nothing in this section is intended to prevent the licensing of food
trucks in other areas of the village pursuant to special event permits duly
issued upon proper application and qualification.
(Ord. 2024-O-17, passed 11-19-24)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
116.10 through
116.30 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues. The issuance of a fine or other monetary
penalty upon any person, firm, corporation shall not prevent the issuance of an
injunction, restraining order or other form of prohibitory writ by a court of
competent jurisdiction: nor shall it prevent the issuance of a notice of
license suspension or revocation by the Mayor. Health Officer or the Lake
County Health Department under §
116.15 or other applicable law. In any action brought or defended by the
village, the person, firm or corporation found to be in violation of this
chapter shall further be liable for the attorney’s fees and the costs of any
such proceeding and the court shall tax the same as part of its judgment.
(‘79 Code, § 1203(15)) (Am. Ord. 2024-O-17, passed 11-19-24)
CHAPTER 117: SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND
TRANSIENT VENDORS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Rights of owners and occupants
   
117.03   Registration/permit—solicitors, canvassers, peddlers
   
117.04   Solicitor registration (not-for-profit)—procedure
   
117.05   Canvasser, peddler, itinerant merchant, transient vendor permit (for-
profit)—procedure
   
117.06   Revocation
   
117.07   Notices limiting solicitation
   
117.08   Duty of solicitors
   
117.09   Trespass prohibited
   
117.10   Uninvited soliciting, canvassing, or peddling
   
117.11   Hours; permit to use village property
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CANVASSER. Any individual, whether a resident of the village or not,
traveling by foot, cart, automobile, truck or any other type of conveyance from
place to place, from house to house or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery or for services
to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he
is collecting advance payments on such sales or not, provided that such
definition shall include any person who for himself or for another person
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar,
boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the
village for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future
delivery.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether an owner, agent, consignee or
employee, and whether a resident of the village or not, who engages in a
business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the
village and who in furtherance of such purpose hires, leases, uses or occupies
any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar or boat, public
room in hotels, lodging houses, apartments, shops or any street, alley or other
place within the village for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and
merchandise, either privately or at public auction; provided that such
definition shall not be construed to include any such person who, while
occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock but exhibits
samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery only.
   NUISANCE. The class of wrongs which arise from the unreasonable,
unwarrantable or unlawful use by a person of his own property, either real or
personal, or from his own improper, indecent or unlawful personal conduct,
working an obstruction of or injury to the right of another or of the public
and producing such material annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort or hurt that
the law will presume resulting damages.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the village or not, traveling by
foot, wagon, automotive vehicle or any other type of conveyance from place to
place, from house to house or from street to street carrying or transporting
goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden truck, farm
products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale or making sales
and delivering chapters to purchasers or who, without traveling from place to
place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle,
railroad car or other vehicle or conveyance and further provided that one who
takes orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as a
part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a peddler subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   PERMITTEE. Any person who is the holder of one or more permits issued
pursuant to this chapter.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes, alleys or
other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, plazas, grounds and
buildings.
   REGISTRANT. Any person, organization, corporation, foundation, or business
entity or the like who has registered its intent to solicit in the Village of
Winthrop Harbor as provided herein, and has in his possession a copy of such
registration on his person while engaged in soliciting.
   SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether a resident of the village or not,
traveling by foot or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from
house to house or from street to street, seeking to:
      (1)   Obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing, or any other
valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable, non-profit
association, organization, corporation, or project,
      (2)   Take or attempt to take orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs and/or services, of any kind, character, or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever for future delivery so long as
such purchase shall support or benefit any charitable, non-profit association,
organization, corporation, or project, or
      (3)   Obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals, newspapers
and every other type or kind of publication.
   STREET, ALLEY OR PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between boundary lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public as a matter of right for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee or
employee, whether a resident of the village or not, who engages in a business
of selling and delivering foods, wares, or merchandise within the village and
who in furtherance of such purpose hires, leases, uses or occupies any
building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, public room in
hotels, lodging houses, apartments, shops or any street, alley or other place
within the village for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and
merchandise either privately or at public auction, provided that such
definition shall not be construed to include any person who, while occupying
such temporary location, does not sell from stock but exhibits samples only for
the purpose of securing orders for future delivery only.
   TRESPASS. Any or all of the following acts by any person, and such acts
shall be deemed in violation of the provisions of §
117.99.
      (1)   An entry upon the premises or any part thereof of another,
including any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the driveway or the main entrance to such premises or at any point of approach
or entry in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
      (2)   The pursuit of a course of conduct of action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any notice, warning or
protest given orally or in writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
      (3)   Any use or attempted use (by any person other than an officer,
agent or employee of the village) of any portion of real property owned by the
village to the exclusion of any person without first obtaining a permit
therefor in compliance with §
117.11(D);
      (4)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      (5)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14)
§ 117.02 RIGHTS OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the owner or
occupant of premises located within the corporate limits of this village shall
have the sole right to make the determination of whether solicitors,
canvassers, or peddlers shall not be invited onto their respective premises,
and such owners or occupants shall further have the sole right to revoke that
permission, once given.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14)
§ 117.03 REGISTRATION/PERMIT—SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS.
   In furtherance of the rights acknowledged in §
117.02, the owners and occupants of property within the village shall have the
right to post notices limiting or prohibiting solicitation, canvassing,
peddling and other, similar intrusions. Such notices shall have the following
legally enforceable effect:
   (A)   Within the corporate limits of the village, it shall be unlawful for
any person to engage in the business of soliciting upon premises wherein an
owner or occupant of such premises has posted a small sign at the principal
entrance thereof inviting therein only solicitors who have registered with the
Village Clerk without such solicitor first registering with the Village Clerk
in the manner provided in this chapter. The act of soliciting shall not be
deemed to include the act of canvasser, peddler, itinerant merchant, or
transient vendor.
   (B)   Within the corporate limits of the village, it shall be unlawful for
any person to engage in the business of canvasser or peddler upon premises
wherein an owner or occupant of such premises has posted a small sign at the
principal entrance thereof inviting therein only canvassers and peddlers who
have been issued a permit signed by the Village Clerk without such canvasser or
peddler first being issued a permit signed by the Village Clerk in the manner
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.04 SOLICITOR REGISTRATION (NOT-FOR-PROFIT)—PROCEDURE.
   The following provision shall apply to persons intending to solicit on
behalf of not-for-profit enterprises only. Procedures governing registration
for all other persons covered by the provisions of this chapter are in §
117.05.
   (A)   All applicants for registration to solicit upon premises within the
village shall complete a form of registration, upon which the applicant shall
truthfully state the information requested, according to the following
procedure:
      (1)   The form of registration for registering intent to solicit shall be
obtainable at the office of the Village Clerk and when completed by the
applicant shall contain the following information: the name and current and
previous address of the person whose intent it is to solicit, home telephone
number, Social Security Number, date of birth, marital status, place of
employment, a physical description thereof, the name, address and telephone
number of the not-for-profit organization the applicant represents, his
relationship to the organization, date of last solicitation registration, the
dates he intends to solicit, the location of intended solicitation, the subject
matter to be solicited, date of last registration to solicit, a statement
whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony of this or any state
or federal government, and a statement whether the applicant has been convicted
of a violation of the solicitation ordinance of this or any municipality.
      (2)   Each form of registration shall be signed by the Village Clerk. One
copy of the signed form of registration shall be given to the registrant. One
copy of the signed form of registration shall be kept in the office of the
Village Clerk. One copy of the signed form of registration shall be forwarded
to the Police Department.
      (3)   Each form of registration shall be valid for 30 days. After such
time, it shall be necessary for the registrant to re-register his intent to
solicit by completing a new form of registration.
      (4)   One person shall be permitted to register for a group of
solicitors, provided they represent the same not-for-profit organization.
   (B)   No form of registration shall be accepted from any person who has been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of this state or any
other state or laws of the United States within five years of the date of
application, nor from any person who has been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter nor from any person whose form of
registration has not been previously accepted as herein provided.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 CANVASSER, PEDDLER, ITINERANT MERCHANT, TRANSIENT VENDOR PERMIT (FOR-
PROFIT)—PROCEDURE.
   The following provision shall apply to all persons covered by this chapter
other than those intending to solicit on behalf of not-for-profit enterprises
only. Procedures governing registration for not-for-profit enterprises covered
by the provisions of this chapter are in §
117.04.
   (A)   All applicants for a permit to engage in the business of canvasser,
peddler, itinerant merchant, or transient vendor upon premises within the
village shall complete a form of application, upon which the applicant shall
truthfully state the information requested, according to the following
procedure:
      (1)   The form of application for a canvasser, peddler, itinerant
merchant or transient vendor permit issued under this division shall be
obtainable at the office of the Village Clerk and when completed by the
applicant shall contain the following information: the name, address, and
telephone number of the applicant, date of birth, a physical description
thereof, nature of the business, name, address and telephone number of the
applicant's employer, the Illinois Sales Tax Number, and the number, kind,
description, and license plate numbers of vehicles used in the applicant's
business, as well as any other means of identification, a statement whether the
applicant has ever been convicted of a felony of this or any state or federal
government, a statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a violation
of the solicitation ordinance of this or any municipality, and a statement
whether the applicant has ever been arrested and for what cause. Each permit
issued under this division shall be printed and shall be signed by the Village
Clerk. Such permit shall bear the date (day, month and year) of its issue and
the date (day, month and year) of its expiration.
      (2)   In addition to filing an application in the form contained in this
division, an applicant for a permit required under this division shall verify
his application and shall provide the following:
         (a)   Where selling foodstuffs, a certificate issued by the county
health inspector;
         (b)   Two photographs of himself no larger than two inches by two
inches;
         (c)   Permit fee: $7.50 per day or $25 per week, plus the reasonably
anticipated costs of any background search required by the Chief of Police;
         (d)   Certificate of insurance or a permit bond in the sum of no less
than $1,000 executed by the applicant as principal.
      (3)   Upon completion of the application, the Village Clerk shall refer
the applicant to the Police Department where he will surrender the original
application to the Chief of Police who shall cause such investigation of the
applicant's business and moral character to be made necessary for the
protection of the public good. The applicant shall be required to submit to
fingerprinting by the Police Department in connection with the permit
application.
      (4)   If as a result of such investigation the applicant's character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police
shall endorse on such application his disapproval and his reasons for the same
and return the application to the Village Clerk, who shall notify the applicant
that his application is disapproved and that no permit will be issued. Upon a
petition of the applicant, the Village Board may affirm, modify or reverse such
disapproval at its next regularly scheduled meeting, subject to the provisions
of the Open Meetings Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.) and need to post
an agenda in advance of the meeting.
      (5)   If as a result of such investigation the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Chief of
Police shall endorse on the application his approval and return the application
to the Village Clerk.
      (6)   Upon payment of the permit fee and filing of a bond or certificate
as described in this division, the Village Clerk shall issue a permit to the
applicant.
      (7)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be kept in his office an accurate
record of every permit issued. A copy of every permit issued shall be forwarded
to the Police Department.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of the
commission of a felony under the laws of this state or any other state or laws
of the United States within five years of the date of application, nor to any
person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter nor to any person whose permit issued hereunder has been previously
revoked as herein provided.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued or in existence for a term longer than four
weeks during any calendar year, whether continuous or issued in two or more
segments of less than four weeks.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.06 REVOCATION.
   Any permit issued under this chapter shall be revoked by the Police Chief
and the Village Clerk if the permittee is convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter or has made a false material statement in his
application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a permit
under the terms of this chapter.
   (A)   Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be
given by the Village Clerk to the permittee in person or by certified U.S. mail
addressed to his residence address as set forth in the application.
   (B)   Immediately upon giving of such notice in person or the deposit
thereof in the U.S. mail, such permit shall become null and void.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14)
§ 117.07 NOTICES LIMITING SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant desiring to secure the protection intended to
be provided by the regulations contained in this chapter shall give notice of
invitation to solicitors, canvassers, and peddlers to any premises located
within the corporate limits of the village by the following means:
      (1)   Upon or near the main entrance door to such premises, a
weatherproof card shall be exhibited containing the applicable words as
follows:
   "ONLY SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, OR PEDDLERS REGISTERED WITH THE VILLAGE OF
WINTHROP HARBOR INVITED"
   or
   "NO SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, OR PEDDLERS ALLOWED"
      (2)   For the purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the
Village Clerk's office to the person requesting the cards at no charge.
   (B)   Any such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor, canvasser or peddler of the determination by the occupant of the
residence of the information contained thereon.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14)
§ 117.08 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, canvasser, and peddler, upon
going onto any premises within the corporate limits of the village, to first
examine the notice provided for in §
117.07 if any is present and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice.
      (1)   If the notice states "ONLY SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, AND PEDDLERS
REGISTERED WITH THE VILLAGE OF WINTHROP HARBOR INVITED," then the solicitor,
canvasser, or peddler not in possession of a copy of his registration or a
valid permit as provided in this chapter shall immediately and peacefully leave
the premises.
      (2)   If the notice states "NO SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, OR PEDDLERS
ALLOWED," then the solicitor, canvasser, or peddler, whether in possession of a
copy of his registration or a valid permit or not, shall immediately and
peacefully leave the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor, canvasser, or peddler who has gained entrance to any
residence located upon any premises located within the village, whether invited
or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by any occupant thereof.
   (C)   No person, organization, corporation, foundation, business entity or
the like shall place an object designed to solicit contributions without first
having registered its intent to solicit in the Village of Winthrop Harbor as
provided in this chapter. This includes, but is not limited to, the placing of
bins in public areas to gather contributions. The registration shall be
conspicuously placed on the object soliciting contributions. Failure to place
the registration on the soliciting object shall subject the individual,
organization, corporation, business entity or the like to penalties as provided
in this chapter and the soliciting object shall be removed by the village.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.09 TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a trespass (as defined in this
chapter) within the corporate limits of the village upon either public or
private property.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.10 UNINVITED SOLICITING, CANVASSING, OR PEDDLING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an audience with
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting, canvassing, or peddling in defiance
of the notice exhibited at the residence or oral notice given in accordance
with the provisions of §
117.08.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.11 HOURS; PERMIT TO USE VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance
for any person, whether in the possession of a copy of registration or issued a
permit under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell
upon or near any door of a residence located thereon or rap or knock upon any
door or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the
attention of the occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an
audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting, canvassing, or
peddling prior to 9:00 a.m., or after 6:00 p.m. of any weekday, Saturday,
Sunday or holiday.
   (B)   No registrant or permittee under this chapter nor any person on his
behalf shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any other
sound device, including any loud speaking radio or amplifying system upon any
of the streets, alleys, parks or other public places of this village or upon
any private premises in the village where sound of sufficient volume is emitted
or produced therefrom capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues,
alleys or parks or other public places for the purpose of attracting attention
to any goods, wares or merchandise which such registrant or permittee proposes
to sell.
   (C)   No registrant or permittee shall have any exclusive right to any
location in the public streets nor be permitted a stationary location within
the public streets nor be permitted to operate in any area where his operations
might impede or inconvenience the public or constitute a violation of the
zoning ordinances of the village. For the purposes of this chapter, the
judgment of a police officer exercised in good faith shall be deemed conclusive
as to whether the area is such that the operation of a registrant or permittee
might impede or inconvenience the public.
   (D)   For the purposes of engaging in business, no person, other than
officers, agents and employees of the village, shall use all or any portion of
real property owned by the village to the exclusion of any other person from
such property without first having applied for and obtained a permit from the
Village Clerk in the manner set forth below:
      (1)   The form of the application for such permit shall be obtainable at
the office of the Village Clerk and shall contain, when completed by the
applicant, the following information: the name, address, and telephone number
of the applicant; the location upon the village-owned real property sought to
be occupied by the applicant; the purpose for such occupation; the intended use
of such location and any acknowledgment of and statement that the applicant
will abide by all applicable laws and regulations, including the following
additional requirements:
         (a)   Native landscaping, including trees, shrubs, plant matter, etc.,
shall not be cut, trimmed, mutilated, removed or destroyed.
         (b)   Weapons, firecrackers or similar devices shall not be brought
onto village-owned real property.
         (c)   All vehicles must be confined to the designated roadways, drives
and parking lots in the area.
         (d)   Buildings, structures, signs or other property belonging to the
village shall not be defaced, mutilated or destroyed.
         (e)   The maintenance of the location, including but not limited to a
thorough cleanup before leaving the location, shall be the sole responsibility
of the applicant.
         (f)   No admission fees or charges shall be levied.
         (g)   The applicant shall not exclude any person from participation
in, deny any person the benefits of or otherwise subject any person to
discrimination because of the person's race, color or national origin during
the use of the village-owned real property.
         (h)   The applicant shall have full responsibility for the observance
of the regulations of the village.
         (i)   In granting any such permission authorized in this section, the
village does not assume any liability.
         (j)   Disregard of regulations will result in denial of further
permits.
         (k)   Any damage to the village property will be paid for and/or
repaired by the applicant.
      (2)   The form of the permit shall contain the name of the persons to
whom the permit is granted, the purpose and duration thereof and the location
to which the permit applies.
      (3)   The Chief of Police or his designee shall cancel any permit when in
his judgment it is considered in the best interest of the general public and/or
the village to do so.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person, organization, corporation, foundation, or business
entity or the like found to have violated any provision of this chapter for
which another penalty is not provided shall be punished by the fine set forth
in §
39.07 of this Code. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as
committed each day upon which each such person, organization, corporation,
foundation, or business entity or the like shall continue any such violation or
permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof.
   (B)   In addition to any fine or monetary penalty, the village shall have
the right to revoke licenses of violators, and to seek injunctions or
restraining orders to prevent continuing violations of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   In any civil proceeding to enforce the terms of this chapter, the
Court shall assess the violator with the costs and attorney's fees incurred by
the village in such action, and shall enter judgment thereon upon the village's
petition.
(Ord. 2014-O-20, passed 12-2-14)
CHAPTER 118: HOTELS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Daily records; right of village to inspect
   
118.03   Permanent occupancy prohibited
   
118.04   Posting of floor plans
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings maintained, advertised, and held out to the
public to be a place where lodging is offered for consideration to travelers
and guests. The term includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging
houses, and rooming houses.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or owns a hotel.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms.
   ROOM or ROOMS. Any living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping
accommodations.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature.
('79 Code, § 1206(1))
§ 118.02 DAILY RECORDS; RIGHT OF VILLAGE TO INSPECT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every hotel operator to keep accurate and
complete books and records which shall include a daily sheet showing:
      (1)   The number of hotel rooms rented during the 24-hour period,
including multiple rentals of the same hotel room where such shall occur;
      (2)   The name and address of the person renting each unit for each date
in question; and
      (3)   The number of persons occupying said unit during the rental period.
   (B)   Every hotel operator shall keep such books or records as required by
this section for a period of two calendar years from the date the last entry is
made in each record or book.
   (C)   Any member of the Police Department or the Building Department may
enter the premises of any hotel to inspect the books and records required by
this section.
('79 Code, § 1206(2)) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03 PERMANENT OCCUPANCY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any hotel operator to knowingly permit any person
to rent or occupy any room or rooms in the same hotel for more than 30 days
during any 60-day period, as permanent occupancy of a hotel room by a person is
prohibited.
('79 Code, § 1206(3)) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04 POSTING OF FLOOR PLANS.
   (A)   The operator of a hotel shall post or cause to be posted in each room
of the hotel operated a floor plan of the corridor on which the room is
located, showing all available exits. Such plan shall be posted in a
conspicuous location in the guest room.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any hotel of one story in which all
guest rooms have doorways leading directly outside.
('79 Code, § 1206(4)) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Any hotel operator who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a business offense, punishable by a fine of not less than $25 nor
more than $500 for each day of any violation.
('79 Code, § 1206(5))
CHAPTER 119: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
119.01   License required
   
119.02   Applications; fee
   
119.03   Stolen goods
   
119.04   Vehicle identification
   
119.05   Junk yards
   
119.06   Nuisance
   
119.07   Notice
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or carry on the business of keeper of a junk
shop, store, or place, for the purchase or sale of old automobiles, junk, rags,
paper or bagging, old iron, brass, copper, or empty bottles without having
obtained a license therefor as is herein provided.
('79 Code, § 1505(1)) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.02 APPLICATIONS; FEE.
   (A)   Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the
provisions of Chapter 120 relating to licenses. ('79 Code, § 1505(2))
   (B)   The fee to be paid for an annual license shall be $500. ('79 Code, §
1505(3))
§ 119.03 STOLEN GOODS.
   Every keeper of a junk shop who shall receive or be in possession of any
goods, articles, or things of value which may have been lost or stolen shall
upon demand produce such article or thing to any member of the Police
Department for examination.
('79 Code, § 1505(4)) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.04 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION.
   Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of business shall bear
thereon in legible characters the name and address of the owner and proprietor
thereof.
('79 Code, § 1505(5)) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.05 JUNK YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any junk as mentioned in §
119.01, or to establish or maintain any junk yard in the village unless the
written consent of the owners of a majority of the property within a radius of
1200 feet from the premises to be so used is first obtained and filed in
accordance with the code provisions relating to frontage consents.
('79 Code, § 1505(6)) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.06 NUISANCE.
   The maintenance or sufferance by any person, owner, or tenant on their
premises, unless licensed by §
119.01, of automobiles, buses, trucks, or other motor vehicles, trailers,
trailer wagons, or such other vehicles originally designed for traffic or
movement in and upon the public ways, not bearing a license or registration
certificate as required by the state or any sister state for the then current
year is herewith defined and declared to be a nuisance.
('79 Code, § 1505(7)) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.07 NOTICE.
   The Building Inspector, the zoning enforcement officer, or any
administrative officer of the village appointed by the Village President and
Board of Trustees, or any member of the Police Department upon information and
knowledge of such a nuisance described in §
119.06 is authorized to serve a notice upon any such person in the manner
following: by personal delivery, substituted personal delivery to any occupant
of the premises, building, or household over the age of ten years, or by
affixing such notice to the vehicle, building, or improvement on such premises.
Such notice shall inform the person so notified that the maintenance of such
vehicle is defined as a nuisance under the code of the village and that such
person has seven days in which to abate such nuisance or file with the Village
Clerk his written request for a hearing before the Building Inspector or other
person designated by the President and Board of Trustees on the matter of such
definition as applied to him.
('79 Code, § 1505(8))
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the following series of code sections shall be fined
pursuant to the chart set forth hereinbelow:
 
Offense Section Number 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
§                     $50         $100        $100
119.01
§                     $50         $100        $100
119.04
§                     $100        $100        $100
119.05
§                     $100        $200        $500
119.06
 
('79 Code, § 1505(9)) (Am. Ord. 2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06)
CHAPTER 120: LICENSES AND PERMITS
Section
   
120.01   Applications
   
120.02   Forms
   
120.03   Signatures
   
120.04   Investigations
   
120.05   Fees
   
120.06   Termination of licenses
   
120.07   Building and premises
   
120.08   Transfer; change of location
   
120.09   Frontage consents
   
120.10   Nuisances
   
120.11   Unsafe businesses
   
120.12   Inspections
   
120.13   Posting
   
120.14   Revocation
   
120.15   Basic business license required
 
   
120.99   Penalty
§ 120.01 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be
made in writing to the Village Clerk in the absence of provision to the
contrary. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, if any, time covered, and the fee to
be paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may
be needed for the proper guidance of the village officials in the issuing of
the permit or license applied for. Whenever in this code, or in any village
ordinance, a license or permit is required for the maintenance, operation, or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person, firm, or corporation shall be subject
to the requirement if by himself or itself, or through an agent, employee, or
partner, he or it is held forth as being engaged in the business, activity, or
occupation, or if he or it solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively,
or if he or it performs or attempts to perform any part of such business,
activity, or occupation in the village.
('79 Code, § 1301)
§ 120.02 FORMS.
   Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the Village Clerk.
('79 Code, § 1302)
§ 120.03 SIGNATURES.
   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the Village
President and the Village Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the
contrary.
('79 Code, § 1303)
§ 120.04 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where the
ordinances of the village necessitate an inspection or investigation before the
issuance of such permit or license, the Village Clerk shall refer such
application to the proper officer for making such investigation within 48 hours
of the time of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the
investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or
otherwise, within five days after receiving the application or a copy thereof.
('79 Code, § 1304(1))
   (B)   The Health Officer shall make or cause to be made an inspection
regarding such permits and licenses as are related to the care and handling of
food, the prevention of nuisances, the spread of disease, and protection of
health. The Building Department shall make or cause to be made any inspections
which relate to compliance with the building code, zoning code, and other
related regulations. All other investigations, except where otherwise provided,
shall be made by the Chief of Police or by some other officer designated by the
Village President. ('79 Code, § 1304(2))
   (C)   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the Village Clerk
shall forward such reports, together with the application, to the Village
President and the Board of Trustees for evaluation and determination. ('79
Code, § 1304(3))
   (D)   If it shall appear to the corporate authorities that the matters and
circumstances relating to an application require further information before a
proper determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the
Village Clerk for the inclusion of such additional information as may be
specified necessary and appropriate. ('79 Code, § 1304(4))
   (E)   If after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and a related investigative report, the corporate authorities shall
determine that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory, they
may disapprove such application, indicating the reasons therefor. Thereupon,
the Village Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant that his
application is disapproved, and that no license or permit will be issued. ('79
Code, § 1304(5))
§ 120.05 FEES.
   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Village Clerk. When application for an annual license is made
after the expiration of six months of the current license year, the license for
the remainder of the year shall be issued upon payment of one-half the annual
fee.
('79 Code, § 1305)
§ 120.06 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year
of the village in which they are issued, where no provision to the contrary is
made.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall mail to all licensees of the village a
statement of the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an
annual one, three weeks prior to the date of such expiration; provided that a
failure to send out such notice, or the failure of the licensee to receive it,
shall not excuse the licensee from a failure to obtain a new license or a
renewal, nor shall it be a defense in an action for operating without a
license.
('79 Code, § 1306)
§ 120.07 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
for any thing or act, if the premises and building to be used for the purpose
do not fully comply with the requirements of the ordinances of the village. No
such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of any provision of this
code.
('79 Code, § 1307)
§ 120.08 TRANSFER; CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses issued may be transferred by the original licensee provided
that written notice thereof is given to the Village Clerk ten days before the
transfer is made and is approved by the Village President; but no more than one
transfer of any license shall be made within any license year. It shall be
unlawful to transfer any peddler's, itinerant merchant's, or chauffeur's
license, and any attempted transfer of such a license shall have no effect.
   (B)   The location of any licensed business or occupation or of any
permitted act may be changed provided ten days' notice thereof is given to the
Village Clerk and approved by the President, in the absence of any provision to
the contrary, provided that the building, zoning, and frontage consent
requirements of the code are complied with.
('79 Code, § 1308) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.09 FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the consent of adjoining or neighboring owners is required as
a prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation or the location of
any establishment, such consents must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be filed with the
Village Clerk, when signed.
   (B)   Consents once given and filed shall not be withdrawn; and such
petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business,
whether by the proprietor or not.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition, or to
falsely represent that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if
such is not the fact.
   (D)   Each consent filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the person
securing the signatures that each signature appearing thereon was properly
secured and written on; and that the petition contains the necessary number of
signatures required by ordinance.
   (E)   The frontage consent requirements contained in this code shall not be
construed as amending or changing any zoning ordinance or provision of the
village ordinances; and no such provision shall be construed as permitting the
erection of a structure or building, the conduct of a business, or the
commission of any act in any location where such structure, building, business,
or act is or are prohibited by any zoning ordinance of the village.
('79 Code, § 1309) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.10 NUISANCES.
   No building, vehicle, structure, yard, lot, premises, or part thereof shall
be used, kept, maintained, conducted, or operated in connection with any
business, licensed or not, or establishment so as to occasion any nuisance, or
so as to be dangerous to life or detrimental to health.
('79 Code, § 1310.1) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.11 UNSAFE BUSINESSES.
   No building or structure utilized, constructed, or maintained in connection
with any business or occupation shall evidence an unsanitary, unsafe, or
dangerous condition. No substance, matter, or thing of any kind whatsoever
which shall be dangerous or detrimental to health shall be allowed to exist in
connection with any business or occupation or be used in any work performed in
the village.
('79 Code, § 1310(2)) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.12 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any code
provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making such inspection any officer or employee of
the village who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any
reasonable time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the municipality
whose business is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer
or employee of the municipality requesting the same sufficient samples of such
material or commodity for such analysis upon request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Village
President may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed
business in the village who refuses to permit any such officer or employee who
is authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make the
inspection or take an adequate sample of the desired commodity, or who
interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his duty
in making such inspection. Provided that no license shall be revoked for such
cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of
the premises, in the name of the village, stating that such inspection or
sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the
sample.
('79 Code, § 1311)
§ 120.13 POSTING.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used
for such business at all times.
('79 Code, § 1313) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.14 REVOCATION.
   (A)   When the conduct or operation of any business or establishment,
whether or not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance in fact and a clear and
present danger to the public health, safety, or general welfare, the Village
President shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the
closing of the premises, and the suspension of any license or permit for a
period not to exceed ten days.
   (B)   Within eight days after he has so acted, the Village President shall
call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license or
permit should be revoked.
   (C)   The licenses and permits issued under the codes of the village, unless
otherwise provided, may be revoked by the Village President after notice and
hearing as provided in divisions (E) and (F) of this section for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      (2)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of any code provision
relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit,
or the premises occupied.
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      (4)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the village.
      (5)   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized village officer or employee while in the performance of
his duties in making such inspections, as provided in this code.
   (D)   Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for in other applicable ordinances
of the village.
   (E)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall be
given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the licensee or permittee at his last known
address at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (F)   At the hearing, the Village Attorney shall present the complaint and
shall represent the village. The licensee or permittee shall be permitted
counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine
witnesses. The Village President shall preside and shall render the decision.
   (G)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Village President in
regard to the denial of an application for a business license, or in connection
with the revocation of a license or permit shall have a right to appeal to the
Board of Trustees. Such an appeal shall be taken by filing with the Village
Clerk, within ten days after notice of the denial of an application or a
revocation of a license or permit, a written statement under oath setting forth
specifically the grounds for appeal. The Board of Trustees shall thereupon set
a time and place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall
be given to the applicant, licensee, or permittee in the same manner as
provided in division (E). The decision of the Board of Trustees on such appeal
shall be final.
('79 Code, § 1312) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.15 BASIC BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All businesses located in the village shall be required to obtain an
annual business license. This license shall be in addition to and not in place
of any other license(s) that the particular business must obtain pursuant to
statute or ordinance.
   (B)   As used herein, the word “business” shall be given the broadest
meaning possible, including but not limited to any and all occupations,
enterprises or other human or corporate endeavors that produce or are intended
to produce income or other gain or monetary value.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall be construed to
require a business license from any duly-licensed attorney, as they are
considered officers of the judicial branch of government under the laws of
Illinois and cannot be locally regulated, licensed, or taxed.
   (D)   All businesses conducted from within the home or residence of the
business owner or operator shall pay an annual license fee of $10. All
businesses conducted from any location other than the home or residence of the
owner or operator of the business shall pay an annual license fee of $25.
   (E)   The village shall not distribute any lists of businesses licensed
except to not-for-profit enterprises (i.e., by way of example but not
limitation, such entities as the Chamber of Commerce or Economic Development
Commission) without the specific permission of the business owners on the list.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to conduct any business in the village without
having in effect a current and valid paid-for business license, and any person,
firm or corporation that conducts such business in violation of this section
shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
120.99(B).
   (G)   All licenses required under this section shall be applied for and
granted under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-O-44, passed 11-19-02) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or is continued.
   (B)   For the first violation of §
120.15, the violator shall be fined an amount equal to the cost of the license.
For a second or subsequent violation of §
120.15, the violator shall be fined $50. Nothing herein shall be construed as
giving the village the power to enjoin or close any business for any violation
hereof.
('79 Code, § 1314) (Am. Ord. 2002-O-44, passed 11-19-02)
CHAPTER 121: PLUMBERS
Section
   
121.01   Permit required; fee
   
121.02   Bond
   
121.03   Compliance with Plumbing Code
   
121.04   Excavations
   
121.05   Prohibited use of name or permit
 
   
121.99   Penalty
§ 121.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to do
business in the village as a plumber without having first secured a permit as
herein required. Applications for such permit shall be made in writing to the
Village Clerk and shall state thereon the name of the applicant, business name,
place of business, telephone number, and related information. ('79 Code, § 1507
(1))
   (B)   The annual fee for such permit shall be $10. ('79 Code, § 1507(2))
Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.02 BOND.
   Every applicant for such a permit shall file together with the application a
bond in the sum of $5000, with sureties to be approved by the Board of
Trustees, and payable to the village to save and keep harmless and indemnify
the village for any loss it may incur by reason of any act or acts or omissions
to act, or failure to perform properly any work done by virtue of any permit
issued hereunder. Also a record of the policy number and name of the worker's
compensation insurance company shall be reported to the village.
('79 Code, § 1507(3))
§ 121.03 COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person doing business as a plumber within the
village to fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with the state plumbing code or
any executive regulation relating to the installation of plumbing.
('79 Code, § 1507(4)) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.04 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in streets plumbers must comply with the ordinance and
provisions relating to such excavations.
('79 Code, § 1507(5))
§ 121.05 PROHIBITED USE OF NAME OR PERMIT.
   No plumber granted a permit under provisions of this chapter shall allow his
name or permit to be used by other persons or parties directly or indirectly
for purposes of obtaining building permits or engaging in plumbing work.
('79 Code, § 1507(6)) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense.
('79 Code, § 1507(7))
CHAPTER 122: ADULT USE LICENSING AND REGULATION
Section
   
122.01   Purpose
   
122.02   Definitions
   
122.03   License required
   
122.04   Issuance of license
   
122.05   Fees
   
122.06   Inspection
   
122.07   Expiration of license
   
122.08   Suspension
   
122.09   Revocation
   
122.10   Transfer of license
   
122.11   Business records
   
122.12   Adult entertainment cabarets; restrictions
   
122.13   Video viewing booths; restrictions
   
122.14   Other restrictions
   
122.15   Zoning
   
122.16   Hours of operation
   
122.17   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
122.18   Minors prohibited
 
   
122.99   Penalty
§ 122.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate adult uses to protect the
community from the many types of criminal activity frequently associated with
such uses. The village recognizes that such regulation cannot in effect
prohibit such uses. This chapter has balanced the competing interest of the
community in reducing criminal activity and protecting property values versus
the protected rights of the owners, operators, employees, and patrons of adult
uses.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01)
§ 122.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, or for viewing on premises by use of
motion picture devices or by coin-operated means, any books, magazines, films,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities, or
specified anatomical areas,
or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of
such materials; or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a
purveyor of such materials, based upon its signage, advertising, displays,
actual sales, presence of video preview or coin-operated booths, exclusion of
minors from the establishment's premises or any other factors showing the
establishment`s primary purpose is to purvey such materials.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which: (i)
features topless dancers, strippers, "go-go” dancers, male or female
impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows; (ii) not infrequently
features entertainers who display specified anatomical areas; or (iii) features
entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or conduct, perform in a manner
which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of the patron or
features entertainers who engage in, or are engaged in, explicit stimulation of
specified sexual activities.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or area used for presenting
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY STORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing,
novelties, lotions and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for specialized sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises, or any other factors
showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such materials.
   ADULT USE. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
entertainment cabarets, and other similar uses.
   EMPLOYEE. Employees, independent contractors or any other persons who are
retained by the license or subject to dismissal from working at the licensed
premises.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Shall include:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, public
region, buttock, female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. 
      (1)   Shall include any of the following offenses: Prostitution or
promotion of prostitution; dissemination of obscenity; sale, distribution or
display of harmful material to a minor; sexual performance by a minor;
possession or distribution of child pornography; public lewdness; indecent
exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized criminal activity;
sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; distribution of a controlled
substance; or any similar offenses to those described above under the criminal
and penal code of other states or counties for which:
         (a)    Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; or
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement from the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (2)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Shall include:
      (1)   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, public region,
buttock or female breasts.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01)
§ 122.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any reason to operate an adult use without a
valid adult use business license issued by the village pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license shall be made on a form provided by the
village.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information as is needed to enable the village to determine whether the
applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wished to operate an adult use is an individual, that
person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If a person who
wishes to operate an adult use is other than an individual, each individual who
has a 20% or greater interest in the business must sign the application for a
license as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under §
122.04, and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if the license is
granted.
   (E)   The completed application for an adult use business license shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall submit
proof that he/she is 18 years of age;
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership, the partnership shall state its
complete name and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general
or limited, and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall state its
complete name, the date of incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in
good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and
capacity of all officers, directors and principal shareholders, and the name
and address of the registered corporate agent.
   (F)   If the applicant intends to operate the adult use business under a
name other than that of the applicant; he/she must state the business' assumed
name and submit any required registration documents.
   (G)   If the applicant has been convicted of any specified criminal activity
as defined in this chapter, he/she must specify the criminal activity involved
and the date, place and jurisdiction of such.
   (H)   The applicant must state if a previous license under this chapter or
similar ordinance from another city or county was denied, suspended or revoked.
He must include the name and location of the business, as well as the date of
the denial, suspension or revocation.
   (I)   It must be stated whether the applicant holds any other license under
this chapter or other similar ordinance from another city or county and, if so,
the names and locations of such other licensed businesses.
   (J)   The applicant must submit a sketch or diagram showing the
configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor area
occupied by the business. This sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared, but it must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Within 60 days after receipt of a completed adult use business license
application, the corporate authorities of the village shall approve or deny the
issuance of the license. The corporate authorities of the village shall approve
the issuance of a license unless they determine by a preponderance of the
evidence any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   The applicant is overdue in payment to the village of taxes, fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him/her in relation to any
business;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for the issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (4)   The applicant has been denied a license by the corporate
authorities of the village or any other city, village, town, township, or
county to operate an adult use business within the preceding 12 months, or
whose license to operate an adult use business has been revoked within the
preceding 12 months;
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
defined in this chapter;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the adult use business have not been
approved by the Fire Protection District and the Building Department as being
in compliance with the applicable laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      (8)   The applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or
is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of
the adult use business. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the entrance to the business so that they may be easily read at any
time.
   (C)   The Fire Protection District and Code Enforcement Officers shall
complete their certification that the premises are in compliance or not in
compliance with village codes within 20 days of receipt of the application by
the village.
   (D)   No adult use business license shall be issued unless the premises at
which the adult use will operate are in conformance with the restriction set
forth in the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.05 FEES.
   Every application for an adult use business license (whether a new license
or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied by a $500 non-
refundable application and investigation fee.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.06 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Fire Protection District, Building Department or other village or
village-designated departments or agencies to inspect the premises of the adult
use for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law at any time the
business is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates an adult use or his agent or employee violates
this chapter if he/she refuses to permit such lawful inspection of the premises
at any time the business is occupied or open for business.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.07 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire on the January 1 after it was issued and may
be renewed only by making an application as provided in §
122.04. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   If the village denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the license has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01)
§ 122.08 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The village may suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days
if, after a hearing, it determines that a licensee or an employee of a
licensee:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult use business premises
as authorized by this chapter; or
      (3)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult use
business premises.
   (B)   If the licensee or an employee of the licensee has been found guilty
in a court of law of a violation of this chapter, no hearing is necessary prior
to suspension of the license.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01)
§ 122.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The village shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension as set
forth in §
122.08 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months, or if the licensee is convicted of any specified criminal activity.
   (B)   The village shall revoke a license if the village determines, after a
hearing, that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of alcohol
or controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee has knowingly operated the adult use business during a
period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
oral copulation, masturbation or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed
premises;
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the village, county or state
for any taxes or fees past due;
      (7)   A licensee has knowingly or intentionally facilitated another
commission of the offense of public indecency.
   (C)   If the village revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the licensee shall not be issued an adult use business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the village finds that the factual basis for the revocation did not
occur, the applicant may be granted a license.
   (D)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01)
§ 122.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another person or business,
nor shall a licensee operate an adult use business under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address on the license.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.11 BUSINESS RECORDS.
   All adult uses shall file a verified report with the village, showing the
licensees' gross receipts and amounts paid to employees during the preceding
calender year. In addition, all adult uses shall maintain and retain for a
period of two years the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed,
including independent contractors, by the licensee.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.12 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARETS; RESTRICTIONS.
   All dancing and other performances shall occur on a stage intended for that
purpose which is raised at least two feet from the level of the floor. No
dancing or other performances shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron.
In addition, no performer shall fondle, caress or otherwise touch any patron
and no patron shall fondle, caress or otherwise touch any performer. No patron
shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any performer, and no performer
shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron. Gratuities may be indirectly
given to performers by placing the gratuity on the stage.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.13 VIDEO VIEWING BOOTHS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms used
for the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of entertainment shall have
doors, curtains or portal partitions, but all such booths, stalls or
partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms so used shall have at least
one side open to an adjacent public room so that the area inside is visible to
persons in the adjacent public room. All such described areas shall be lighted
in such a manner that the persons in the areas used for viewing motion pictures
or other forms of entertainment are visible from the adjacent public rooms, but
such lighting shall not be of such intensity as to prevent the viewing of the
motion pictures or other offered entertainment.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.14 OTHER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Distance from other buildings.
      (1)   No adult use shall be within 600 feet from the property line of a
school, church, park, residential neighborhood, business serving alcoholic
beverage, state controlled highway, or another adult use facility. City of
Renton v. Playtime Theaters, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), North Avenue Novelties
v. City of Chicago, 88 F.2d 941 (7th Cir. 1986).
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (A), distance shall be measured
in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest point on the property line of the lot on which the adult use
establishment is located to the nearest point on any property line of a
residential property, or any lot on which a protected use or other adult use
establishment is located, as the case may be.
   (B)   Limited exception for subsequent protected uses and residential
property. An adult use lawfully operating under this chapter and under the
village Adult Use Licensing Ordinance shall not be deemed to be in violation of
the location restrictions set forth in this division solely because a protected
use subsequently locates within the minimum required distance of the adult use
establishment or when any other lot or tract within the required minimum
distance of the adult use establishment subsequently becomes residential
property. This division shall not apply to an adult use establishment at a time
when an application for an adult use license under the Adult Use Establishment
Licensing ordinance for that establishment is submitted after the license has
previously expired, has been revoked, or is at that time under suspension.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.15 ZONING.
   Adult use facilities shall only be allowed to operate in the I-1 Industrial
Zoning District, as said I-1 Industrial Zoning District existed as of January
1, 2000. No adult use will be allowed in the I-1 District as to property
annexed into the village after January 1, 2001.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult use facility shall be open prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m.,
Monday through Saturday. Said adult use facilities shall be closed on Sundays
and all legal holidays. Michell v. Commission on Adult Entertainment
Establishments, 10 F.3d 123 (3rd Cir. 1993).
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.17 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No alcoholic beverages shall be served, consumed, possessed, delivered or
transported on or about the premises at any time.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.18 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall be allowed on, about or inside the
adult use premises.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.99 PENALTY.
   Should anyone violate any provision of this Chapter, they shall be fined not
less than $50 nor more than $500 for each occurrence. Each day that the
violation of any of the provisions contained in this chapter continues shall be
considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 2001-O-6, passed 3-20-01)
CHAPTER 123: TAXICABS
Section
   
123.01   License required
   
123.02   Application; fees
   
123.03   Revocation of license
   
123.04   Vehicles license board
   
123.05   Public need
   
123.06   Renewal of license
   
123.07   Failure to operate
 
   
123.99   Penalty
§ 123.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive a taxicab unless that person shall have secured a
license therefor as herein provided.
('79 Code, § 1510(1)) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.02 APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   No such license shall be issued to any person who is not competent to
operate a motor vehicle or who is not familiar with the traffic laws and
ordinances. The Chief of Police shall examine each applicant for a taxicab
driver's license to determine the competency of the applicant, and no such
license shall be issued excepting on certificate of the Chief that the
applicant has demonstrated his ability to operate a motor vehicle as required.
('79 Code, § 1510(3))
   (B)   The annual fee for a taxicab driver's license shall be $10 for the
first license and $5 for renewal. ('79 Code, § 1510(2))
§ 123.03 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Village President may revoke any taxicab driver's license for repeated
violations of traffic laws or ordinances; or of any code provision regulating
the conduct of such drivers.
('79 Code, § 1510(4))
§ 123.04 VEHICLES LICENSE BOARD.
   (A)   There is established a public vehicles license board which shall
consist of the members of the Board of Trustees. The Village President shall be
chairman of the board.
   (B)   The public vehicles board shall meet on the call of the chairman or of
two members thereof, at such times as may be necessary to transact its
business.
('79 Code, § 1510(5))
§ 123.05 PUBLIC NEED.
   No license to operate a taxicab in the municipality shall be issued unless
and until the public vehicles board shall certify that the public need for
taxicab service requires the additional service to be rendered by the
applicant. In deciding this question, the board shall consider the need of the
public for taxicab service, the number of cabs in operation, and the
anticipated future demands.
('79 Code, § 1510(6))
§ 123.06 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   No certification by the vehicles license board shall be required for the
renewal of any operator's license.
('79 Code, § 1510(7))
§ 123.07 FAILURE TO OPERATE.
   If any licensee on whose behalf a certificate has been issued shall fail to
operate all or any of the taxicabs covered by such certificate for a period of
six consecutive days, the certificate may be revoked or modified by the
commission so as to cover and authorize only the number of cabs actually
operated.
('79 Code, § 1510(8))
§ 123.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
as set forth in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 124: UNDERTAKERS
Section
   
124.01   License required
   
124.02   Fee
   
124.03   Notice to police
   
124.04   Exhibitions
 
   
124.99   Penalty
§ 124.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to maintain an
undertaking establishment or to operate as an undertaker or mortician in the
village without first having obtained a license as herein provided. Such
licenses shall be issued and held subject to the provisions of Chapter 120 of
this code.
('79 Code, § 1511(1)) Penalty, see §
124.99
§ 124.02 FEE.
   The annual fee for such licenses shall be $20, or the daily fee shall be $5.
('79 Code, § 1511(2))
§ 124.03 NOTICE TO POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of every undertaker to notify the Chief of Police
whenever a body is brought to him or turned over to him for his services.
('79 Code, § 1511(3))
§ 124.04 EXHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any undertaker to permit his establishment to be
used for the exhibition to the public of the body of any deceased person. This
shall not be construed to prevent the display of any body to friends and
relatives of the deceased.
('79 Code, § 1511(4)) Penalty, see §
124.99
§ 124.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
('79 Code, § 1511(5))
CHAPTER 125: VIDEO GAMING LICENSING
Section
   
125.01   General provisions
   
125.02   Inspections
 
   
125.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Licensing of gaming devices, see also §§
111.10 through
111.14
§ 125.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Video gaming is allowed within the corporate limits of the Village of
Winthrop Harbor, strictly subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   An appropriate video gaming license duly issued by the Illinois State
Gaming Board is required as a pre-condition to the grant of any license for
video gaming by the Village Clerk.
   (C)   No video gaming terminal meeting the definition of such a device set
forth at ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5 shall be installed, maintained or suffered
to exist in any location within the corporate limits of the Village of Winthrop
Harbor unless the owner or operator of such premises shall first have a video
gaming license duly issued by the Village Clerk pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (D)   No business owner or operator shall encourage, permit, allow or suffer
the use, operation or maintenance of any video gaming terminal meeting the
definition of such a device set forth at ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5 within or
upon his, her or its premises within the corporate limits of the Village of
Winthrop Harbor, except in strict compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, the provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40,
§§ 1 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated under the said Act by the
Illinois State Gaming Board.
   (E)   The fee for each video gaming terminal meeting the definition of such
a device set forth at ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5 shall be $250 per year, or for
any part of a year.
   (F)   The application and issuance process for any video gaming licenses
shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 120 of this code, unless
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of the
Illinois Video Gaming Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.) or the
regulations of the Illinois State Gaming Board in which case, the more specific
regulations shall apply.
   (G)   The term of video gaming licenses shall be from May 1 of any year to
the following April 30, whereupon said licenses shall automatically expire
unless renewed for an additional term consistent with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 12-O-22, passed 10-16-12; Ord. 2022-O-1, passed 1-18-22)
§ 125.02 INSPECTIONS.
   Authorized representatives of the Winthrop Harbor Police Department,
including sworn peace officers and such other individuals as the Chief of
Police may designate from time to time, may make inspections of the premises of
operators licensed or required to be licensed under this chapter or any
premises where there is cause to believe video gaming occurs, for the purpose
of determining the existence or non-existence of a violation of the
prohibitions of this chapter. These inspection powers are in addition to any
other statutory or common law powers otherwise granted to the police.
(Ord. 12-O-22, passed 10-16-12)
§ 125.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or corporate entity found guilty of any violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to prosecution under the gambling
provisions of the Illinois Criminal Code, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 28-1 et seq.,
as well as any and all civil penalties set forth in the Video Gaming Act, ILCS
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.
   (B)   In addition to the prosecution set forth in division (A) immediately
above, any such person or corporate entity found guilty of such violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be fined according to the general penalty
set forth in § 10.99 of this code, provided that the official issuing the
citation may alternatively issue it to the village’s adjudication court, in
which case, the penalty shall be that set forth in the Adjudication Hearing
Ordinance Code Violation List in § 39.07 of this code.
   (C)   Each violative video gaming machine, each prohibited bet or wager and
each day during which a violation occurs shall be deemed to be a separate
violation subject to fine.
   (D)   The village shall further have the right to obtain a prohibitory
injunction, without bond, upon a showing that any person or business entity has
maintained or operated one or more video gaming terminals meeting the
definition of such devices set forth at ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5 without a due
and proper license issued under this chapter, requiring the halting of such
activity as a public nuisance. In any such injunction action, the village shall
be entitled to recover its costs and attorney’s fees from the defendant.
(Ord. 12-O-22, passed 10-16-12)
CHAPTER 126: TOBACCO AND E-CIGARETTE DEALERS
Sections
   
126.01   Definitions
   
126.02   License required
   
126.03   License application
   
126.04   License—restrictions on applicants
   
126.05   Ownership changes
   
126.06    License fee—background checks
   
126.07   License—Class A—general tobacco sales retailer
   
126.08   License—Class B—primary tobacco sales retailer
   
126.09    License—Class C—e-cigarette sales retailer
   
126.10   License non-transferability and records
   
126.11   License—posting
   
126.12   License—proximity to certain institutions
   
126.13   License—issuance
   
126.14   License—revocation or suspension
   
126.15   Sales—minors—prohibited
   
126.16   Warning signs
   
126.17   Identification required
   
126.18   Vending machines prohibited
   
126.19   Sale or delivery of drug paraphernalia prohibited
   
126.20   Minimum age to purchase regulated products and accessories
   
126.21   Minimum age to sell tobacco products and accessories
   
126.22   Out-of-package sales prohibited
   
126.23   Vendor-assisted sales required
   
126.24   Responsibility for agents and employees
   
126.25   Inspection
   
126.26   Parental responsibility
 
   
126.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Smoking and vaping regulations, see
Ch. 104
§ 126.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them.
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS. Any product other than traditional tobacco
and snuff which can be chewed, inhaled or orally ingested which contains
nicotine. By way of example, and not limitation, products such as lozenges or
chewing gum containing nicotine are ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS.
   COMPLIANCE CHECK. An inspection conducted with the intention of assessing
retail sales of tobacco products to minors and enforcing age-of-sales laws.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are peculiar to and marketed for use and planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, re-packaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the
Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Control Substances Act. It includes, but
is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits peculiar to and marketed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (2)   Isomerization devices peculiar to and marketed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (3)   Testing equipment peculiar to and marketed for private home use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis
or controlled substances;
      (4)   Diluents and adulterants peculiar to and marketed for cutting
cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
      (5)   Objects peculiar to and marketed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human
body, including, where applicable, the following items:
         (a)   Water pipes,
         (b)   Carburetion tubes and devices,
         (c)   Smoking and carburetion masks,
         (d)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials,
         (e)   Carburetor pipes,
         (f)   Electric pipes,
         (g)   Air-driven pipes,
         (h)   Chillums,
         (i)   Bongs, and
         (j)   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (6)    Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller,
is for use in violation of the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES or E-CIGARETTE. A battery-operated device that
contains a combination of nicotine, flavor, or chemicals or any combination
thereof that are turned into vapor which is inhaled by the user.
   LICENSE. A license issued by the village for the retail sale of tobacco
products.
   LICENSEE. The holder of a valid license for the retail sale of tobacco
products.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years of age.
   NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEM. Any product which has the effect of delivering
nicotine into human lungs.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An area to which the public is invited or in which the public
is permitted, including, but not limited to, any right-of-way, mall or shopping
center, park, playground, and any other property owned by the village, any
school district, or any park district.
   REGULATED PRODUCTS. Products that are subject to the regulations of this
chapter, including tobacco, tobacco accessories, e-cigarettes, vaping products,
alternative nicotine products and any other nicotine delivery system.
   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAYS. Open displays of tobacco products that the public has
access to without intervention of a store employee.
   TOBACCO ACCESSORIES. Any cigarette papers, pipes, holder of smoking
materials of all types, cigarette rolling machines and other items designed
primarily for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products or of substances
made illegal under any ordinance or statute.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco.
   VAPE or VAPING. The process of using an e-cigarette.
   VAPING PRODUCTS. The oils, liquids, nicotine, flavorants, and other
chemicals used in the process of vaping.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service
device, which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any form of payment,
dispenses tobacco products.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18)
§ 126.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to sell, barter, transport, deliver, furnish, possess,
keep or offer for sale at retail tobacco products or accessories, or engage in
or conduct a retail tobacco business, or conduct any place for the sale of
tobacco products or accessories within the corporate limits of the village,
without having a retail tobacco dealer's license, or in violation of the terms
of such licenses.
   (B)   It is unlawful to sell, barter, transport, deliver, furnish, possess,
keep or offer for sale at retail any nicotine delivery system, including e-
cigarettes and vaping products or accessories, or engage in or conduct a retail
e-cigarette or vaping business, or to operate any place for the sale of
nicotine delivery systems or accessories within the corporate limits of the
village, without having a retail e-cigarette dealer's license, or in violation
of the terms of such licenses.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for such license shall be made to the village in writing upon
blanks prepared and furnished by the village (which may be on forms provided
for joint filing with liquor licenses), signed by the applicant, if any
individual; or by at least two members of a partnership, if the applicant is a
partnership, or if the applicant is a corporation, then by the president and
secretary thereof, verified by oath or affidavit of the signers, and shall
contain the following information and statements:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a partnership, the persons entitled to share in 5%
or more of the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation the date of
the incorporation, the state of incorporation, the objects for which it was
organized, the names and addresses of the officers and directors, and the name
and address of all persons owning more than 5% of the stock, along with a copy
of the corporate charter currently on file with the Illinois Secretary of
State;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her date of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant;
   (D)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of that
character;
   (E)   In the case of a partnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership;
   (F)   The applicant's current state tobacco license number from the
Department of Revenue (unless already bonded under the Cigarette Tax Act of the
Cigarette Use Tax Act);
   (G)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
   (H)   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application for a
similar or other license on premises other than described in the application,
and the disposition of such application;
   (I)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter or any ordinance or statute;
   (J)    Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor;
   (K)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state or of the United States or any ordinance of the village in the conduct of
business;
   (L)   A statement that the applicant has, or is eligible for and will
obtain, a license from the State of Illinois in the event such a license is
required by applicable statute or departmental regulation.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18)
§ 126.04 LICENSE—RESTRICTIONS ON APPLICANTS.
   No license shall be granted to:
   (A)   A person who is not of good character and reputation;
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the
United States;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the Village Board determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person's application and the Village Board's investigation. The burden
of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or any other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (E)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued would not be eligible for a license upon a first application;
   (F)   A partnership, if any general partner thereof, or any limited partner
thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner interest in such
partnership would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason;
   (G)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship;
   (H)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or is qualified
under the Business Corporation Act of 1983 (ILCS Ch. 805, Act 5, §§ 1.01 et
seq.) to transact business in Illinois;
   (I)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possess the same qualifications required for the
licensee;
   (J)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period of the
license is to be issued;
   (K)   A person who does not qualify for a state license, in the event such a
license is required by applicable statute or departmental regulation.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18)
§ 126.05 OWNERSHIP CHANGES.
   Any change in the names, addresses, or identity of any owner or holder of 5%
or more of any stock, shares, equity, or other instrument of ownership of a
licensee licensed under this chapter, shall be reported to the Village Clerk
within ten days of any such change.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.06 LICENSE FEE; BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   Each such license shall terminate on the 30th day of April next
following the date of issuance. The fee to be paid shall be applicable for a
full year, or any part thereof, without proration or other reduction if
purchased for less than a full year. All fees for licenses pursuant to this
chapter shall be paid at the time the application is made.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall conduct a criminal background check of all
applicants at the time of their initial application, and at any time a change
in ownership results in a new owner being added to the reported list of owners
or holders of 5% equity or stock. By applying for a license, the applicant
agrees to provide proof of submission under the Uniform Conviction Information
Act through a fingerprint conviction information request with an approved
Livescan vendor authorized by the Illinois State Police within the preceding 30
days and to this background check. Applicants may be required to sign such
consent forms as the Chief may reasonably require. The Chief shall report to
the Village Board whether the application is demonstrably false in any material
respect or if the applicant is ineligible to hold a license.
   (C)   In the event that a license is denied, the license fee shall be
refunded to the applicant, less a $50 processing fee.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18)
§ 126.07 LICENSE—CLASS A—GENERAL TOBACCO SALES RETAILER.
   (A)   Businesses whose primary activity is other than the sale of tobacco
products, shall obtain a Class A license before engaging in sales. PRIMARY
SALES means sales that constitute 50% or more of the total sales of the
business.
   (B)   The annual fee for such license is $250 for each tobacco retail
location.
   (C)   There shall be no more than six class A licenses in the village at any
point in time. Licenses will be issued in the order that applications are
received. Licenses will cease to be issued at the time that six licenses have
been issued and will not be issued again until the number of licensed vendors
is below six due to revocation of a vendor's license or failure of a vendor to
renew a license.
   (D)   A Class A license is nontransferable, except a new license will be
issued to a tobacco retailer who changes location.
   (E)   A list of Class A licensees shall be kept by the Village Clerk of the
village.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18)
§ 126.08 LICENSE—CLASS B—PRIMARY TOBACCO SALES RETAILER.
   (A)   Businesses whose primary activity is the sale of tobacco products
shall obtain a Class B license before engaging in sales. PRIMARY SALES means
sales that constitute 50% or more of the total sales of the business.
   (B)   The annual fee for such license is $3,000 for each tobacco retail
location.
   (C)   There shall be no more than three class B licenses in the village at
any point in time. Licenses will be issued in the order that applications are
received. Licenses will cease to be issued at the time that three licenses have
been issued and will not be issued again until the number of licensed vendors
is below three due to revocation of a vendor's license or failure of a vendor
to renew a license.
   (D)   A Class B license is nontransferable, except a new license will be
issued to a tobacco retailer who changes location.
   (E)   Those subject to this section, who sell tobacco products or
accessories to minors, shall be subject to immediate revocation of their
license and special use permit.
   (F)   A list of Class B licensees shall be kept by the Village Clerk of the
village.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.09 LICENSE—CLASS C—E-CIGARETTE SALES RETAILER.
   (A)   Businesses who intend to sell e-cigarettes, vaping products and/or
other nicotine delivery systems and accessories, shall obtain a Class C license
before engaging in sales.
   (B)   The annual fee for such license is $3,000 for each e-cigarette retail
location.
   (C)   The annual fee for such license will be waived if the licensee holds a
Class A or B tobacco sales retailer's license.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18)
§ 126.10 LICENSE NON-TRANSFERABILITY AND RECORDS.
   (A)   Licenses will be issued in the order that applications are received.
   (B)   Licenses are nontransferable, except a new license will be issued to a
licensee who changes location.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18)
§ 126.11 LICENSE—POSTING.
   Every licensee shall cause the license or licenses to be framed and hung in
a conspicuous place on the licensee's premises.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.12 LICENSE—PROXIMITY TO CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. It is unlawful for any person or licensee to sell, offer
for sale, give away or deliver regulated products within 100 feet of any
school, child care facility or other building used for educational or
recreational purposes by persons under 18 years of age. For the purpose of this
division (A), measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or objects, from nearest portal of the building or
structure used as a part of the premises where a licensed establishment is
located, to the nearest portal of a school, child care facility or other
building used for educational or recreational purposes by persons under 18
years of age.
   (B)   Grandfathered sites. In the event a licensee is located in technical
violation of the distance requirements of this section at the time of the
adoption of this chapter, each such licensee shall be considered to have legal
non-conforming status, which will remain intact until such time as the licensee
ceases to operate its business at that location. A change of ownership to a new
licensee properly reported to the Village Clerk pursuant to §
126.05 shall not be considered the ceasing of business operations at a given
location.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.13 LICENSE—ISSUANCE.
   Upon the approval by the Village Board of the village of the application as
provided in this chapter and the payment of the required license fee, the
Village Clerk shall issue to the person or persons applying therefor a license
allowing the retail sale of tobacco and e-cigarette products under the
provisions of this chapter, indicating the classification under which the
license is issued, and the term for which such license is issued. The license
shall be signed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18)
§ 126.14 LICENSE—REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Winthrop Harbor Mayor may revoke or suspend any license if it is
determined that the licensee has violated any state statute or any of the
provisions of any ordinance or resolution of the village or any applicable rule
or regulation established by the Village Board. However, no such license shall
be revoked or suspended until after a public hearing by the Village Board with
a written notice to the licensee affording the licensee a minimum of three
business days in which to appear and defend. In all such hearings, the Village
Attorney shall reduce, or cause to be reduced, all evidence to writing and
shall maintain an official record of the proceedings. The Mayor shall, within
five days after such hearing, state the reasons for the Village Board's
determination in a written order of revocation or suspension and shall serve a
copy of such order upon the licensee. The decision of the Village Board on any
license suspension or revocation proceeding shall constitute a final
administrative action and is subject to review in the courts under the Illinois
Administrative Review Act, ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101, et. seq.
   (B)   A license shall be suspended or revoked for any violation of this
chapter after notice and opportunity to be heard as follows:
      (1)   In the case of a first violation, the licensee shall be fined not
less than $200 and no more than $750 and shall be notified in writing of
penalties levied for further violations. Each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   In the case of a second violation, the licensee shall be fined not
less than $350 and no more than $750 and the tobacco license shall be suspended
for not less than 30 consecutive business days nor more than 90 consecutive
days. Tobacco retailers must remove all regulated products and accessories from
public view while the license is suspended and all regulated product sales
shall be suspended. Notice of the suspension shall be posted in plain view of
the public at the licensee's premises.
      (3)   In the case of a third violation, the licensee shall be fined not
less than $500 and no more than $750 and the tobacco license shall be suspended
for not less than six months nor more than 18 months from the date of
suspension and all regulated product sales shall be suspended. Tobacco
retailers must remove all tobacco products and accessories from public view
while the license is suspended.
      (4)   In the case of a fourth violation, the licensee shall be fined $750
and the license shall be revoked. All regulated products and accessories must
be removed from all areas.
   (C)   Any licensee determined by the Village Board to have violated any of
the provisions of this chapter shall pay to the village costs of the hearing on
such violation. The village shall determine the costs of the hearing,
including, but not limited to: court reporter's fees, attorney's fees incurred
by the village, the cost of preparing and mailing notices and orders and all
other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the village or such lesser sum as the
Village Board may allow, and such costs assessed shall be in addition to the
fine imposed. Notice of the suspension shall be posted in plain view of the
public at the licensee's premises.
   (D)   The licensee shall pay said costs to the village within 30 days of
notification of the costs. Failure to pay said costs within 30 days of
notification is a violation of this chapter and may cause the levy of an
additional fine or revocation of license at the discretion of the Village
Board.
   (E)   When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license
shall be granted to such licensee for the period of six months thereafter for
the sale of regulated products in the premises described in such revoked
license.
   (F)   While it shall not be a defense to an action brought under this
section that the retailer's employee conducted the unlawful sale or
transaction, the Village Board may, in its discretion, direct prosecution of an
ordinance violation case against that employee in lieu of taking formal action
on the establishment's license and licensee.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.15 SALES—MINORS—PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is strictly unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give
away or deliver regulated products to any person under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   No licensee or his or her agent or employees shall permit any person
under the age of 21 years in or about any premises operating under a Class B or
C license unless that minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.16 WARNING SIGNS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away or
deliver tobacco products or tobacco accessories in any place that does not post
signs informing the public of the age-of-sale restrictions and surgeon general
warning in a conspicuous place at or near every display of tobacco products.
Each sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
      (1)   "SALE OF TOBACCO ACCESSORIES, VAPING PRODUCTS AND SMOKING HERBS TO
PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE (21) YEARS OF AGE, OR THE MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE TO
PROCURE SUCH A SALE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW."
      (2)   "SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: SMOKING BY PREGNANT WOMEN MAY RESULT IN
FETAL INJURY, PREMATURE BIRTH, AND LOW BIRTH WEIGHT."
   (B)   The text of such signs must be in red letters on a white background,
and said letters must be at least one-half inch high.
   (C)   To ensure uniformity and to promote public health, the Village Clerk
may issue standard signs which meet the requirements of this provision at the
same time that licenses are issued.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.17 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   No licensee shall sell or permit to be sold regulated products or
accessories to an individual without requesting and examining photographic
identification establishing the purchaser's age as 21 years of age or greater.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.18 VENDING MACHINES PROHIBITED.
   Tobacco vending machines or any other devices for the sale or distribution
of regulated products are prohibited.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.19 SALE OR DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep for sale, offer for sale, sell, or deliver for
any commercial consideration any item of drug paraphernalia.
   (B)    Any store, place, or premises from which or in which any item of drug
paraphernalia is kept for sale, offered for sale, sold or delivered for any
commercial consideration is declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   Items marked for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling, or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to
lawful research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale shall be
exempt from this section.
   (D)    Any person, firm or corporation violating this section, or any part
thereof, shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $750 for each
violation.
   (E)   The village shall further have the discretion to seek a suspension or
revocation of any licensee's license under §
126.14 in the event of any violation of this section.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.20 MINIMUM AGE TO PURCHASE REGULATED PRODUCTS AND ACCESSORIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to purchase
regulated products or misrepresent their age or use any false or altered
identification with the intention of purchasing regulated products.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 21 years shall not be in violation of this
section if such regulated product is in an unopened container or package and
was in the person's possession pursuant to the performance of specified duties
at a lawful place of employment. By way of example, and not limitation, this
provision allows persons under 18 to stock shelves with tobacco products at a
licensed establishment, but it does not authorize that person to conduct sales.
(Also see §
126.21.)
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.21 MINIMUM AGE TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ACCESSORIES.
   It is unlawful for any licensee, officer, associate, member, representative,
agent or employee of such licensee to engage, employ or permit any person under
21 years of age to sell tobacco products or accessories on any vendor's
premises.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.22 OUT-OF-PACKAGE SALES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to sell regulated products out of the manufacturer's package
with required health warnings and tax seals. It is unlawful to sell cigarettes
individually or other nicotine delivery system products in any form other than
in the manufacturer's original packaging.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.23 VENDOR-ASSISTED SALES REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to sell, offer for sale, give away, or display regulated
products for sale at any location where the consumer can acquire those products
through self-service. All regulated products must be displayed from behind a
sales/service counter so that no consumer can access regulated products without
the assistance of an employee of the licensee.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.24 RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Every act or omission of any nature constituting a violation of any
provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee; and such licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such
act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
Notwithstanding this provision, nothing herein shall prevent the individual
prosecution of such officers, directors, managers or other agents or employees
in the discretion of the licensing authority or arresting authority.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18)
§ 126.25 INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to establish protocols and
procedures appropriate for the purpose of ascertaining whether the laws of the
state and of the village in relation to the same, are being complied with at
all licensed establishments.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18)
§ 126.26 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent, guardian or custodian of a person under the age of 18 years of
age shall permit, facilitate, condone or allow such minor to purchase, possess
or consume in any manner or form cigarettes or any other regulated products.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18) Penalty, see §
126.99
§ 126.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
(other than the specific fines and suspension provisions set forth in §
126.14) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Ord. 2018-O-20, passed 12-4-18)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
131. OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND PROPERTY
      
132. OFFENSES AGAINST GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY
      
133. OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
      
134. GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135. CONSERVATION CODE
      
136. ABATEMENT OF CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
   
130.03   Disturbing lawful assemblages
   
130.04   Fighting
   
130.05   Hunting
   
130.06   Intoxication
   
130.07   Possession of cannabis
   
130.08   Profanity
   
130.09   Trapping
   
130.10   Weapons
   
130.11   Discharge of firearms
   
130.12   Vagrancy
   
130.13   Spitting in public places
   
130.14   Articles on window ledges
   
130.15   Prohibiting the possession of drug paraphernalia
   
130.16   Possession, transport, or consumption of any alcoholic liquor by a
minor prohibited
   
130.17   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor
   
130.18   Destruction of sex offender notifications
   130.19   Public urination and defecation
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of 18 years to be on
any public street, alley, or public place in the village between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday, inclusive, and between the
hours of 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday unless accompanied by
or in the charge of a parent or legal guardian of the age of 21 years or more,
or unless such person is engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of
the state authorize a person less than 18 years of age to perform.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other person having the
legal care and custody of any person under 18 years of age to allow or permit
any such child, ward, or other person under such age to go, or be in or upon
any of the streets, alleys, or public places within the time prohibited by
division (A) of this section, unless accompanied as provided in said division,
or unless there exists a reasonable necessity therefore.
   (C)   A person under the age of 18 years who knowingly violates this section
shall be subject to a penalty as provided. The police officer shall forthwith
and without delay, report such violation to his superior officer, who shall
cause a written notice to be served upon the parent, guardian, custodian, or
other person in control or charge of such child, setting forth the manner in
which this section has been violated.
('79 Code, § 1917) (Ord. 1984-O-4, passed 1-17-84; Am. Ord. 1990-O-9, passed 4-
3-90) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists;
      (3)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed such place;
      (4)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer, or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is not reasonable ground
for believing that such an offense has been committed; or
      (5)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
('79 Code, § 1909(1)) (Ord. 1988-O-02, passed 1-19-88)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to collect, gather, or be a member of any
disorderly crowd, or any crowd gathered together for an unlawful purpose. ('79
Code, § 1909(21))
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful assemblage or
gathering in the village.
('79 Code, § 1909(8)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault or battery or to
fight in any public place in the village.
('79 Code, § 1909(5)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or to engage in killing any
animal other than as prescribed by law or ordinance in the village.
('79 Code, § 1909(9)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated condition or
under the influence of drugs in any street, alley, or public place of the
village unless prescribed by a medical doctor.
('79 Code, § 1909(2)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 POSSESSION OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   CANNABIS. For purposes of this section, CANNABIS includes marijuana,
hashish, and other substances which are defined or regulated by the Illinois
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, Public Act 101-27.
   (B)   Possession.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to possess any
quantity of cannabis in the village in excess of the amounts allowable under
the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, PA 101-27.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess any
quantity of cannabis in the village which was purchased, obtained, stored,
transported or otherwise held in a manner not permitted by the Illinois
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, PA 101-27.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any quantity of
cannabis in a school bus or on the grounds of any preschool, primary school, or
secondary school, unless permitted for a registered medical cannabis patient
under the “Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.”
   (C)   Minor possession. It shall be unlawful for any person aged less than
21 years to possess any quantity of cannabis in the village.
   (D)   Use of cannabis.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any cannabis or cannabis
infused product in any public place, or in any motor vehicle.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any cannabis or cannabis
infused product in a school bus, on the grounds of any preschool, primary
school, or secondary school, unless permitted for a registered medical cannabis
patient under the “Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.”
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly use cannabis or any cannabis
infused product in close physical proximity to any person under 21 years of age
who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the “Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.”
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to smoke cannabis in any place where smoking
is prohibited under the Smoke Free Illinois Act, P.A. 17, 2007.
(Ord. 2024-O-4, passed 3-19-24) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 PROFANITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use profanity in any street, alley,
or public place of the village.
('79 Code, § 1909(3)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 TRAPPING.
   It shall be unlawful to capture or attempt to capture by setting or placing
a leg hold trap, body- gripping trap, cage or life trap, or other similar
device to capture, hold, or kill game or fur-bearing mammals in the village;
except that police officers employed by the village, or their agents, in order
to carry out their law enforcement duties involving the health and welfare of
the residents of the village, are exempted from the provisions of this section.
('79 Code, § 1909(9a)) (Ord. 1984-O-30, passed 12-18-84)
§ 130.10 WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to carry any concealed weapons in the village
without first having obtained a license to carry such concealed weapons duly
issued under the laws of the state. ('79 Code, § 1909(10))
   (B)   No person shall carry concealed on or about his person a pistol,
revolver, blackjack, sand club, sand bag, metal knuckle, bludgeon, or other
firearm, or carry or conceal the same in any case or package, or have the same
in or about automobile or any other vehicle. This provision does not apply to
officers while engaged in the or other duly constituted peace officers and
wardens, superintendents, and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries, jails and
other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted of crime;
nor for the following employees or agents while engaged in the discharge of the
duties of their employment: conductors, baggagemen, messengers, drivers,
watchmen, special agents, and police officers employed by railroads or express
companies; nor to persons lawfully summoned by an officer to assist in making
arrests or preserving the peace. ('79 Code, § 1909(34))
   (C)   No person shall carry, conceal , possess, sell, loan or give to any
person any blackjack, sand club, sand bag, metal knuckles, bludgeon, knife with
a folding, fixed or collapsible handle and a stiff blade in excess of 3.25
inches (except for common kitchen or filleting knives kept in one's kitchen or
fishing tackle box) or numchucks (being two or three pieces of wood, metal,
plastic, or rubber, joined together by a chain, tape, or wire), and no person
shall carry or possess, with the intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, switchblade
knife or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument of similar
character. ('79 Code, § 1909(35) (Ord. 1983-O-28, passed 12-6-83)
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, the word CARRY shall include the
following specific meanings:
      (1)   To hold in one's hand;
      (2)   To have upon one's person;
      (3)   To have in one's clothing, jacket or other personal apparel;
      (4)   To have in any backpack, luggage, briefcase, sport pack, duffel
bag, satchel or other enclosure held or carried on or about the person;
      (5)   To have or permit the same to be located in any unlocked section of
a person's automobile, boat, motorcycle or other vehicle.
(Am. Ord. 2000-O-8, passed 6-6-00) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms or air guns in the village;
provided that this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of
the law to discharge a firearm in performance of his duty, nor citizen to
discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his person or property.
('79 Code, § 1909(23) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 VAGRANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any mendicant or vagrant to frequent any
depot, store, theater, street, alley, sidewalk, park or other public place or
places frequented by the public in the village.
   (B)   Any person soliciting personal charity or gifts for himself shall be
considered to be a mendicant.
('79 Code, § 1909(26)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 SPITTING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful to expectorate on any public street, sidewalk, or other
public place, or in any store, theater, depot, or other place frequented or
used by the public.
('79 Code, § 1909(27)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 ARTICLES ON WINDOW LEDGES.
   It shall be unlawful to place any moveable article on any window ledge or
other place abutting on a public street, alley, or other public place and at a
height above four feet from the ground, in such a manner that the same can or
is in danger of falling onto such street, sidewalk, or other public place.
('79 Code, § 1909(16)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 PROHIBITING THE POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind
which are peculiar to and marketed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation
of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act [ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 100 et
seq.] or the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-27. It
includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits peculiar to and marketed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (2)   lsomerization devices peculiar to and marketed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (3)   Testing equipment peculiar to and marketed for private home use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis
or controlled substances;
      (4)   Diluents and adulterants peculiar to and marketed for cutting a
controlled substance by private persons;
      (5)   Objects peculiar to and marketed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine or a controlled substance into the
human body including, where applicable, the following items:
         (a)   Water pipes;
         (b)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (c)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (d)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (e)   Carburetor pipes;
         (f)   Electric pipes;
         (g)   Air-driven pipes;
         (h)   Chillums;
         (i)   Bongs;
         (j)   Ice pipes or chillers;
      (6)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is
for use in violation of this section.
   (B)   No person shall possess any item of drug paraphernalia used for
ingesting or otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the
human body, or in preparing or cannabis or a controlled substance for that use,
unless otherwise exempt under Illinois State Law.
(Ord. 1996-O-7, passed 6-17-96; Am. Ord. 2024-O-4, passed 3-19-24)
§ 130.16 POSSESSION, TRANSPORT, OR CONSUMPTION OF ANY ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR BY A
MINOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to possess,
transport or consume any alcoholic liquor within the village; provided,
however, that: the possession or consumption of alcoholic liquor by a person
under 21 years of age in the performance of a religious ceremony; or the
consumption by a person under 21 years of age under the direct supervision and
control of the parents or parent or those persons standing in loco parentis of
such person under the age of 21 years of age in the privacy of a home, is not
prohibited by this section.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR includes alcohol,
spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or solid, patented or not, containing
alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable of being consumed as a beverage by
a human being. ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR shall not include, for the purposes of this
section, alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in
accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder, nor to
any liquid or solid containing .05% , or less, of alcohol by volume.
(Ord. 2003-O-30, passed 12-2-03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 CONTRIBUTING TO THE DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or willfully cause,
aid or encourage any boy or girl to be or to become a delinquent child, or who
knowingly or willfully does acts that directly tend to render any child so
delinquent. Instead of imposing the punishment set forth in §
130.99 , the court may release the defendant from custody on probation for 1
year upon his or her entering into recognizance with or without surety in the
sum as the court may direct. (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 130, § 2a)
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DELINQUENT CHILD is any minor who prior
to his or her 17th birthday has violated or attempted to violate any federal or
state law or village ordinance within the limits of the village.
(Ord. 2003-O-31, passed 12-2-03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 DESTRUCTION OF SEX OFFENDER NOTIFICATION.
   No person shall destroy, deface, damage, or otherwise make unreadable, or
cause to be destroyed, defaced, damaged, or otherwise made unreadable, any
notice posted on public property that contains information to which the
community is entitled under any state law concerning the identity or location
of registered sex offenders or sexual predators.
(Ord. 2003-O-32, passed 12-2-03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 PUBLIC URINATION AND DEFECATION.
   It shall be unlawful for:
   (A)   Any person to defecate on any street, alley, sidewalk, parking lot,
park, playground, school yard, cemetery, floor of any building, or any public
place, except in such place that has been designated a restroom;
   (B)   Any person to urinate on any street, alley, sidewalk, parking lot,
park, playground, school yard, cemetery, or floor of any building, except in
such place that has been designated a restroom; or
   (C)   Any person to urinate or defecate in any public place in such a manner
as to expose his or her genitals at any public place.
   (D)   PUBLIC PLACE, as used in this section, shall mean any place where the
conduct involved is actually viewed by someone who is not related to the person
nor a member of his or her household.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 8-2-16) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In case any parent, guardian, or person in control or charge of a
child who has received notice as provided in §
130.01 shall knowingly permit such child again to violate the provisions of §
130.01, such parent, guardian, custodian, or person in control or charge of
such child shall be subject to a fine of $25 for the first offense, $50 for the
second offense, and $100 for the third and any subsequent offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each date during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
('79 Code, §1917(4)) (Ord. 1984-O-4, passed 1-17-84; Am. Ord. 2005-O-19, passed
9-20-05; Am. Ord. 2009-O-14, passed 7-21-09)
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
according to the chart of fines set forth in §
39.07 of this code.
(‘79 Code, § 1909(30a)) (Am. Ord. 2005-O-19, passed 9-20-05; Am. Ord. 2016-O-
11, passed 8-2-16)
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
130.15 shall be subject to incarceration in any penal institution other than
the penitentiary for a period not to exceed six months in addition to any fine
imposed under division (B). (‘79 Code, § 1909(9b))
(Ord. 2003-O-30, passed 12-2-03; Am. Ord. 2005-O-19, passed 9-20-05; Am. Ord.
2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Assault
   
131.02   Battery
   
131.03   Trespassing
   
131.04   Minors on railroad property
   
131.05   Harassment
Theft
   
131.10   Definitions
   
131.11   Theft
   
131.12   Theft by deception
   
131.13   Offensive retail theft
   
131.14   Theft of launching ramp services
Vandalism and Graffiti
   
131.25   Definitions
   
131.26   Vandalism prohibited
   
131.27   Parental responsibility
   
131.28   Graffiti prohibited
 
   
131.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 ASSAULT.
   A person commits assault when, without lawful authority, that person engages
in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a
battery.
('79 Code, § 1909(32)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 BATTERY.
   A person commits battery if that person intentionally or knowingly without
legal justification and by any means causes bodily harm to an individual; or
makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
('79 Code, § 1909(33)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 TRESPASSING.
   A person commits the act of trespass when that person knowingly:
   (A)   Enters upon, or refuses to leave, any residential property of another,
either where such property has been posted with "No Trespassing" signs, or
where immediately prior to such entry or subsequent thereto, notice is given by
the owner or occupant, orally or in writing, that such entry or continued
presence is prohibited.
   (B)   Enters upon and uses private commercial property in violation of
regulations promulgated by the owner or tenant in actual possession of the
property where such regulations have been conspicuously posted by signs readily
visible to all persons likely to come onto te said property, and where such
regulations prohibit unsafe conduct such as roller skating, skateboarding,
roller blading or using other sporting equipment on a semi-public commercial
property.
   (C)   Refuses to leave any private commercial property in violation of
regulations promulgated by the owner or tenant in actual possession of the
property where such regulations have been conspicuously posted by signs readily
visible to all persons likely to come onto the said property, and where such
regulations limit the length of time that persons may be on the property
without having specific tasks, duties or commercial business on that property.
   (D)   Enters upon, or refuses to leave, any public property in violation of
regulations promulgated by the official charged with the security, care, or
maintenance of the property and approved by the governing body of the public
agency owning property where such regulations have been conspicuously posted or
where immediately prior to such entry or subsequent thereto, such regulations
are made known to the officer charged with the security, care, or maintenance
of the property, his or her agent, or a police officer.
('79 Code, § 1909(6)) (Am. Ord. 2006-O-22, passed 11-21-06) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 MINORS ON RAILROAD PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to trespass upon or frequent any railroad
tracks or sidings, or to board trains or alight therefrom where the same are in
motion; provided that no child who is in or on any portion of any railroad
property set aside for the use or convenience of the public shall be deemed to
be trespassing if such child is in such place for the purpose of awaiting a
train, meeting a person, or some other lawful purpose.
('79 Code, § 1909(28)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 HARASSMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to intentionally harass, threaten, stalk, follow or
otherwise act in such a manner as shall reasonably be calculated to produce
fear, trepidation and/or mental or physical anxiety in another person.
(Ord. 2000-O-8, passed 6-6-00) Penalty, see §
131.99
THEFT
§ 131.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MERCHANT. An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee, or
independent contractor of such owner or operator.
   MINOR. A person who is less than 17 years of age, is unemancipated, and
resides with his parents or legal guardian.
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person who by virtue of his office or public employment
is vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duly extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
   PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Includes, but is not limited
to, the retail mercantile establishment, any common use areas in shopping
centers, and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of a
merchant for the parking of vehicles for the convenience of the patrons of such
retail mercantile establishment.
   SHOPPING CART. Those push carts of the type or types which are commonly
provided by grocery stores, drug stores, or other retail mercantile
establishments for the use of the public in transporting commodities in stores
and markets and, incidentally, from the stores to a place outside the store.
   UNDER-RING. To cause the cash register or other sales recording device to
reflect less than the full retail value of the merchandise.
('79 Code, § 1916(1)) (Ord. 1980-O-23, passed 11-4-80)
§ 131.11 THEFT.
   A person commits theft when that person knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner; or
   (B)   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
   (C)   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
   (D)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to
believe that the property was stolen and:
      (1)   intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
      (2)   knowingly uses, conceals, or abandons the property in such manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      (3)   uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment, or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
('79 Code, § 1915(1)) (Ord. 1980-O-23, passed 11-4-80) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12 THEFT BY DECEPTION.
   A person commits a theft by deception when with intent to defraud that
person:
   (A)   Obtains possession of any goods, property, service, or thing of value
by any false proceedings or by cheating or by fraud of any kind.
   (B)   With intent to obtain control over property or to pay for property,
labor, or services of another he issues or delivers a check or other order upon
a real or fictitious depository for the payment of money, knowing that it will
not be paid by the depository. Failure to have sufficient funds or credit with
the depository when the check or other order is issued or delivered is prima
facie evidence that the offender knows that it will not be paid by the
depository, and that he has the intent to defraud.
('79 Code, § 1909(7)) (Ord. 1983-O-27, passed 1206-83) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.13 OFFENSIVE RETAIL THEFT.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of retail theft when that person
knowingly:
      (1)   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers, or causes to be
carried away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored, or
offered for sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of
retaining such merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant
permanently of the possession, use, or benefit of such merchandise without
paying the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      (2)   Alters, transfers, or removes any label, price tag, marking,
indication of value, or any other marking which aid in determining value
affixed to any merchandise displayed, held, stored, or offered for sale in a
retail mercantile establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise
personally or in consort with another at less than the full retail value with
the intention of depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such
merchandise; or
      (3)   Transfer any merchandise displayed, held, stored, or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      (4)   Under-rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the
full retail value of the merchandise; or
      (5)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use, or benefit of such cart.
   (B)   If any person conceals upon their person or among their or her
belongings, unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored, or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment; and removes that merchandise beyond
the last known station for receiving payments for the merchandise in that
retail mercantile establishment, then that person shall be presumed to have
possessed, carried away, or transferred such merchandise with the intention of
retaining it or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use, or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise.
   (C) (1)   Any merchant who has reasonable grounds to believe that a person
has committed retail theft may detain such person, on or off the premises of a
retail mercantile establishment, in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable
length of time for all or any of the following reasons:
         (a)   To request identification;
         (b)   To verify such identification;
         (c)   To make reasonable inquiry as to whether such person has in his
possession unpurchased merchandised and to make reasonable investigation of the
ownership of such merchandise;
         (d)   To inform a peace officer of the detention of the person and
surrender that person to the custody of a peace officer.
         (e)   In the case of a minor, to inform a peace officer, the parents,
guardian, or other private person interested in the welfare of that minor of
this detention and to surrender custody of such minor to such person.
      (2)   A merchant may make a detention as permitted herein off the
premises of a retail mercantile establishment only if such detention is
pursuant to an immediate pursuit of such person.
   (D)   A detention as permitted in this section does not constitute an arrest
or an unlawful restraint, nor shall it render the merchant liable to the person
so detained.
('79 Code, § 1916(1)-(5)) (Ord. 1980-O-23, passed 11-4-80) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.14 THEFT OF LAUNCHING RAMP SERVICES.
   A person commits theft of launching ramp services when that person knowingly
launches a boat of any kind using the boat launch located within the North
Point Marina on the shore of Lake Michigan without paying the fee to the
operator of the said marina according to the operator’s posted schedule of
fees.
(Ord. 2018-O-6, passed 4-17-18)
VANDALISM AND GRAFFITI
§ 131.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized pictorial marking or lettering with any form of
permanent or semi- permanent marking means, including but not limited to paint,
spray paint, ink, marking pens or stain.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. A person appointed guardian, or given custody of a minor by
a Circuit Court of this state, or an appropriate court of any other
jurisdiction, but does not include a person appointed guardian, or given
custody of a minor under the Illinois Juvenile Court Act.
   MINOR. Shall include a person who is above the age of 11 years, but not yet
19 years of age,
   PERSON. Shall include any individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company, or organization of any kind, including governmental
entities.
   PROPERTY. Any real estate, including improvements thereon, tangible, and
intangible personalty.
('79 Code, § 1913(1)) (Am. Ord. 2000-O-8, passed 6-6-00)
§ 131.26 VANDALISM PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to wilfully or maliciously injure, deface,
destroy, smash eggs against or upon, or interfere with any property belonging
to the village, other governmental bodies, any private person, firm or
corporation.
(Ord. 2000-O-8, passed 6-6-00) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.27 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence
to the contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility and
said minor shall be deemed to have committed the following described acts with
the knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian upon the occurrence of
the following events:
   (A)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any code section prohibited
wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property, or shall have
incurred non-judicial sanctions from another governmental agency resulting from
an admission of guilt of violation of code section which prohibits wilful and
malicious acts causing injury to a person or property; and
   (B)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service with a certificate of personal service return, from the
Police Department of this municipality following said adjudication or non-
judicial sanction, and providing further that at any time within one year
following receipt of said notice, said minor is either adjudicated to be in
violation of any code section as described herein, or shall have incurred non-
judicial sanctions from another governmental agency resulting from an admission
of guilt of violation of any code section as described herein.
('79 Code, § 1913(3)) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.28 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to paint, mark or cause graffiti to be
placed on any property owned or possessed by any other person or entity.
(Ord. 2000-O-8, passed 6-6-00)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
131.01 or §
131.02 shall be subject to incarceration in any penal institution other than
the penitentiary for a period not to exceed six months in addition to any fine
imposed under division (C).
(‘79 Code, § 1909(36)) (Ord. 1984-O-21, passed 10-2-84)
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
131.26 through
131.28 shall be liable for complete restitution to the owner or lawful
possessor of the property injured, defaced, destroyed, egged, interfered with,
painted, inked, or otherwise marked with graffiti.
   (C)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
according to the chart of fines set forth in §
39.07 of this code.
(Am. Ord. 2000-O-8, passed 6-6-00; Am. Ord. 2001-O-2, passed 2-20-01; Am. Ord.
2005-O-19, passed 9-20-05; Am. Ord. 2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord. 2016-O-
11, passed 8-2-16)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY
Section
   
132.01   Resisting a police officer
   
132.02   Obstructing service of process
   
132.03   Obstruction of justice
   
132.04   Concealing or aiding a fugitive
   
132.05   Escape
   
132.06   Aiding escape
   
132.07   Refusing to aid an officer
   
132.08   Truancy
   
132.09   Impersonation of officer or employee
   
132.10   Interference with officer or employee
   
132.11   False fire alarms
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 RESISTING A POLICE OFFICER.
   A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by one knowingly
resists or obstructs the performance by one known to the person to be a peace
officer of any authorized act within the officer's official capacity commits
the offense or resisting or obstructing a peace officer.
('79 Code, § 1909(31a)) (Ord. 1986-O-3, passed 2-18-86) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 OBSTRUCTING SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Whoever knowingly resists or obstructs the authorized service or execution
of any civil or criminal process or order of any court commits the offense of
obstructing service of process.
('79 Code, § 1909(316)) (Ord. 1986-O-3, passed 2-18-86) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE.
   A person obstructs justice when, with intent to prevent the apprehension or
obstruct the prosecution or defense of any person, he knowingly commits any of
the following acts:
   (A)   Destroys, alters, conceals, or disguises physical evidence, plants
false evidence, furnishes false information; or
   (B)   Induces a witness having knowledge material to the subject at issue to
leave the state or conceal himself; or
   (C)   Possessing knowledge material to the subject at issue, he leaves the
state or conceals himself.
('79 Code, § 1909(31c)) (Ord. 1986-O-3, passed 2-18-86) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 CONCEALING OR AIDING A FUGITIVE.
   Every person not standing in the relation of husband, wife, parent, child,
brother, or sister to the offender, who, with intent to prevent the
apprehension of the offender, conceals his knowledge that an offense has been
committed, or harbors, aids, or conceals the offender commits the offense of
concealing or aiding a fugitive.
('79 Code, § 1909(31d)) (Ord. 1986-O-3, passed 2-18-86) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 ESCAPE.
   A person in the lawful custody of a peace officer who intentionally escapes
from custody commits the offense of escape.
('79 Code, § 1909(31e)) (Ord. 1986-O-3, passed 2-18-86) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 AIDING ESCAPE.
   Whoever knowingly aids a person in the lawful custody of a peace officer and
escaping from custody commits the offense of aiding in an escape.
('79 Code, § 1909(31f)) (Ord. 1986-O-3, passed 2-18-86) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   Whoever upon command refuses or knowingly fails reasonably to aid a person
known by him to be a peace officer apprehending a person whom the officer is
authorized to apprehend; or preventing the commission by another of any offense
commits the offense of refusing to aid an officer.
('79 Code, § 1909(31g)) (Ord. 1986-O-3, passed 2-18-86) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08 TRUANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18, enrolled in a
public, private, or parochial school, to absent himself or herself from
attendance at school without parental permission. Any person who shall so
absent himself or herself shall be guilty of the offense of truancy and be
subject to the penalties hereinafter set forth in this code. Emergency or
unforseen absences due to illness or other causes beyond the control of the
person so absenting himself or herself from school without parental permission
shall not constitute truancy if permission for such absence has substantially
been obtained from the parent and such permission is submitted in writing to
the proper school authorities within 24 hours after such absence. ('79 Code, §
1812(1))
   (B)   It is hereby made unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other person
having the legal care and custody of any person under 18 years of age to allow
or permit any such child, ward, or other person under such age enrolled in a
public, private, or parochial school, to absent himself or herself from
attendance at school without parental permission.
('79 Code, § 1812(2)) (Ord. 1984-O-5, passed 2-7-84)
§ 132.09 IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate without lawful authority
any village officer or employee.
('79 Code, § 1001(9)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.10 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of
the village while engaged in the duties of his office.
('79 Code, § 1001(10)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.11 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   No person shall wilfully turn in or cause to be turned in a false fire
alarm.
('79 Code, § 600(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
132.01,
132.03 through
132.06,
132.09 or
132.10 shall be subject to incarceration in any penal institution other than
the penitentiary for a period not to exceed six months in addition to any fine
imposed under division (B).
(‘79 Code, § 1909(36)) (Ord. 1984-O-21, passed 10-2-84)
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
according to the chart of fines set forth in §
39.07 of this code.
(Am. Ord. 2005-O-19, passed 9-20-05; Am. Ord. 2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06; Am.
Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 8-2-16)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Indecent conduct
   
133.02   Bathing suit required
Prostitution
   
133.10   Practice
   
133.11   Soliciting
   
133.12   House of ill-fame
Obscenity
   
133.20   Obscenity
   
133.21   Community standards
 
   
133.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 INDECENT CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any indecent or immoral act.
(‘79 Code, § 1909(4)) (Ord. 2021-O-26, passed 9-21-21) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 BATHING SUIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe at any public place or in any
place open to public view unless such person is adequately garbed in a bathing
suit.
('79 Code, § 1909(24)) Penalty, see §
133.99
PROSTITUTION
§ 133.10 PRACTICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to practice prostitution in the village.
('79 Code, § 1908(1)) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.11 SOLICITING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit on any street, alley, or
public place in the municipality for the purpose of inducing any person to
engage in prostitution or any unlawful sexual intercourse of any kind.
('79 Code, § 1908(2)) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.12 HOUSE OF ILL FAME.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain, frequent, or patronize any house of ill-
fame or house of prostitution in the village.
('79 Code, § 1908(3)) Penalty, see §
133.99
OBSCENITY
§ 133.20 OBSCENITY.
   A person commits obscenity when, with knowledge of the nature or content
thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would
have disclosed the nature or content thereof, he:
   (A)   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver, or
provide any obscene writing, picture, motion picture, slide, video tape,
record, or other representation or embodiment of the obscene; or
   (B)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance, or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene; or
   (C)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene; or
   (D)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition of
his body for gain; or
   (E)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material with
intent of disseminate it in violation of this code or of the penal laws or
regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
   (F)   Advertises or otherwise promote the sales of material represented or
held out by him to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
('79 Code, § 1914(1)) (Ord. 1980-O-18, passed 9-20-80) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.21 COMMUNITY STANDARDS.
   A thing is obscene for purposes of this code when to the average person,
applying contemporary community standards, the dominant theme of the material
taken as a whole appeals to prurient interests; that.
   (A)   The dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to a
prurient interest in sex, and
   (B)   The material is patently offensive because it affronts contemporary
community standards relating to the description or representation of sexual
nature, and
   (C)   The material is utterly without redeeming social value.
('79 Code, § 1914(2)) (Ord. 1980-O-18, passed 9-2-80)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
according to the chart of fines set forth in §
39.07 of this code.
(Ord. 1980-O-18, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 2005-O-19, passed 9-20-05; Am. Ord.
2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 8-2-16)
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Race track messenger services and betting parlors prohibited
   
134.02   Gambling prohibited
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 RACE TRACK MESSENGER SERVICES AND BETTING PARLORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The commercial practice of soliciting business within the corporate
limits of the village (said business being commonly referred to as a messenger
or agency service) for the acceptance within said corporate limits or the
transmission therefrom, by one means or another, of money to a race track as a
bet or wager on a race, is defined an declared to constitute gaming and is
prohibited; and any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of participating,
patronizing, or cooperating in any manner in such a practice within said
corporate limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense hereunder and shall be
subject to the penalty provisions hereof. ('79 Code, § 1514(1))
   (B)   The commercial practice of soliciting business within the corporate
limits of the village (said business being commonly referred to as a messenger
or agency service) for the acceptance within said corporate limits or the
transmission therefrom, by one means or another, of money to a race track as a
bet or wager on a race, is defined and declared to be a nuisance, and is
prohibited; and any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of participating,
patronizing, or cooperating in any manner in such a practice within said
corporate limits shall be deemed guilty of an offense hereunder and shall be
subject to the penalty provisions hereof. ('79 Code, § 1514(2)) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to gamble, to attend any gambling resort, or to
make any bet, except as provided for raffles and lotteries in Chapter 102 of
this code, or except as provided for video gaming in
Chapter 125 of this code.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to possess any gambling device or paraphernalia
with the intent to use the same for an unlawful purpose; and any such device or
paraphernalia kept with such intent may be confiscated by the Police Department
or any member thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or patronize any establishment
maintained for a gambling house or resort, except those which have licenses
issued by the Village Clerk and the State Gaming Board for video gaming
pursuant to the provisions set forth in
Chapter 125 of this code.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to advertise any gambling house or gambling
resort in any street, alley, or other public place within the municipality,
provided, however, that establishments duly licensed by the Village Clerk and
the State Gaming Board pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 125 of this code and ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq. may advertise
the availability of video gaming on their premises, consistent with the Sign
Code set forth in
Chapter 158 of this code.
('79 Code, § 1903(1) - (4)) (Am. Ord. 12-O-22, passed 10-16-12) Penalty, see §
134.99
Cross-reference:
   For exceptions to this prohibition, see
Chapter 102
   Licensing of gaming devices, see §§
111.10 through
111.14
   Video gaming licensing, see
Chapter 125
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
according to the chart of fines set forth in §
39.07 of this code.
(Ord. 2006-O-17, passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 8-2-16)
CHAPTER 135: CONSERVATION CODE
Section
   
135.01   Fish, Wildlife and Endangered Species Acts adopted
   
135.02   List of specific sections adopted
   
135.03   Enforcement
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 FISH, WILDLIFE AND ENDANGERED SPECIES ACTS ADOPTED.
   Pursuant all applicable police powers and authority, the village hereby
adopts in their entirety the sections of the State of Illinois Statutes set
forth in §
135.02 as they currently exist, and as they may hereafter be amended, and the
same are adopted as ordinance provisions of the village. Any ticket or
complaint charging a violation of this chapter and the adopted provisions
incorporated herein may note that the offense is being charged as a violation
of municipal law, but may also describe the specific offense using the
statutory section number from the state statutes.
(Ord. 2002-O-13, passed 4-2-02)
§ 135.02 LIST OF SPECIFIC SECTIONS ADOPTED.
   The specific State of Illinois statutory code sections adopted by this
chapter and by §
135.01 are as follows:
   FISH: Article 5 (ILCS Ch. 515, Act 5, §§ 5-5 et seq.), Article 10 (ILCS Ch.
515, Act 5, §§ 10-5 et seq.) and Article 20 (ILCS Ch. 515, Act 5, §§ 20-5 et
seq.).
   WILDLIFE: Article II (ILCS Ch. 520, Act 5, §§ 2.1 et seq.), Article III
(ILCS Ch. 520, Act 5, §§ 3.1 et seq.).
   ENDANGERED SPECIES: ILCS Ch. 520, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.
(Ord. 2002-O-13, passed 4-2-02)
§ 135.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department or any special police or conservation patrol
authorized by the village shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have full and
complete jurisdiction for the purpose of enforcement of this provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2002-O-13, passed 4-2-02)
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of the Illinois Conservation Codes shall
hereafter be considered a violation of this chapter and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to the penalty provisions provided in the
Illinois Conservation Codes as adopted hereunder.
(Ord. 2002-O-13, passed 4-2-02)
CHAPTER 136: ABATEMENT OF CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
Section
   
136.01   Violation
   
136.02   Definitions
   
136.03   Remedy
   
136.04   Abatement of nuisance
   
136.05   Procedure
   
136.06   Commencement of action; burden of proof
   
136.07   Emergency closing procedures
   
136.08   Discretionary action
   
136.09   Exemptions
§ 136.01 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any certain property within the Village of Winthrop Harbor which
becomes a chronic nuisance property is in violation of this chapter and subject
to its remedies.
   (B)   Any person in charge who permits property under his or her ownership
or control to be a public nuisance property is in violation of this chapter and
subject to its remedies.
(Ord. 2015-O-21, passed 10-6-15)
§ 136.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY. Property upon which three or more of the nuisance
activities listed below have occurred during any 120 day period, as a result of
any three separate factual events that have been independently investigated by
any law enforcement agency. These events must proven in a court or through a
local adjudication process either through convictions of record, or pleas
amounting to admissions, irrespective of whatever sentence may have been given
or agreed to in a negotiated plea. Court action or adjudication process on
local ordinances equivalent to the below-cited state law violations will be
considered to be violations sufficient to support the charge that a property
falls within this definition:
      (1)   "Disorderly conduct" as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1;
      (2)   "Unlawful use of weapons" as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-
1 et seq.;
      (3)   "Mob action" as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 25-1;
      (4)   "Discharge of firearm" as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1.2
and 1.5;
      (5)   "Gambling" as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1;
      (6)   "Possession, manufacture or delivery of controlled substances" as
defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 401 et seq.;
      (7)   "Public indecency" as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-30;
      (8)   "Assault or battery or any related offense" as defined in ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, §§ 12-1 et seq.;
      (9)   "Sexual abuse or related offense" as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act
5, §§ 12-15 et seq.;
      (10)   "Prostitution" as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-14 et seq.;
      (11)   "Criminal damage to property" as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5,
§§ 21-1 et seq.;
      (12)   "Possession, cultivation, manufacture or delivery of cannabis" as
defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 3 et seq.;
      (13)   "Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol" as defined in ILCS
Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 6-16 et seq.;
   CONTROL. The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or govern
conduct that occurs on that property.
   COURT. Either the adjudication court established and maintained by the
Village of Winthrop Harbor or the Circuit Court of the Nineteenth Judicial
Circuit, Lake County, Illinois as to matters within the jurisdiction of each
adjudicative body.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, firm or corporation having any legal or equitable
interest in the property. OWNER includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The person, persons, entity or entities which hold record legal
title to a property;
      (2)   A mortgagee in possession in whom is vested:
         (a)   All or part of the legal title to the property;
         (b)   All or part of the beneficial ownership and the right to the
present use and enjoyment of the premises; and
      (3)   Any tenant or other occupant who has the right or ability to
control what occurs on the property.
   PERMIT. To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
   PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership or corporation capable
of owning or using property in the Village of Winthrop Harbor.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. Any person in actual or constructive possession of a
property, including but not limited to an owner, occupant of property under his
or her domain, ownership or control.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, including land, which is affixed, incidental or
pertinent to land, including but not limited to any premises, room, house,
building or structure or and separate part or portion thereof, whether
permitted or not.
(Ord. 2015-O-21, passed 10-6-15)
§ 136.03 REMEDY.
   (A)   In the event a court determines property to be a chronic nuisance
property, the court may order that the property be closed and secured against
all use and occupancy for a period of not less than 30 days, but not more than
180 days or the court may employ any other remedy available in law or equity
deemed by it to be appropriate to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies provided in division (A) of this section,
the court may impose upon the owner of the property a civil penalty in the
amount of not less than $100 per day up to $500 per day, payable to the Village
of Winthrop Harbor, for each day the owner had actual knowledge that the
property was a chronic nuisance property and permitted the property to remain
chronic nuisance property.
   (C)   In determining what remedy or remedies shall be employed, the court
may consider evidence of other conduct which has occurred on the property,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The disturbance of neighbors;
      (2)   The recurrence of loud and obnoxious noises;
      (3)   Repeated consumption of alcohol in public.
(Ord. 2015-O-21, passed 10-6-15)
§ 136.04 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   The village's prosecuting attorney may prosecute such cases or assist
in the prosecution of such cases as are filed in either the adjudication court
of the village or the branch courts of the Circuit Court when the remedies
sought are limited to monetary penalties within the respective jurisdictions of
those adjudicatory bodies.
   (B)   The Village Attorney may commence an action in the Circuit Court to
abate the chronic public nuisance property as described above. Upon being
satisfied by affidavits or other sworn evidence that an alleged chronic
nuisance property exists, the court may, without notice or bond, enter a
temporary restraining order or a preliminary injunction to enjoin any defendant
from maintaining such nuisance and may enter an order restraining any defendant
from removing or interfering with all property used in connection with the
public nuisance.
(Ord. 2015-O-21, passed 10-6-15)
§ 136.05 PROCEDURE.
   When the Chief of Police receives one or more police reports documenting the
occurrence of a nuisance activity on or within a property, the Chief of Police
shall independently review such reports to determine whether they describe
criminal acts. Upon such findings, the Chief may:
   (A)   Notify the person in charge in writing that the property is in danger
of becoming a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
      (2)   A statement that the Chief of Police has information that the
property may be chronic nuisance property, with a concise description of the
nuisance activities that may exist or that have occurred. The Chief of Police
shall offer the person in charge an opportunity to propose a course of action
that the Chief of Police agrees will abate the nuisance activities giving rise
to the violation.
      (3)   Demand that the person in charge respond to the Chief of Police
within ten days to discuss the nuisance activities.
   (B)   If after complying with the notification procedures described herein
the Chief of Police receives a police report documenting the occurrence of a
third nuisance activity at or within a property and determines that the
property has become a chronic nuisance property, the Chief of Police shall:
      (1)   Notify the person in charge in writing that the property has been
determined to be a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall conform to the
following:
         (a)   It shall set forth the street address or legal description
sufficient for identification of the property;
         (b)   It shall include a statement that the Chief of Police has
determined the property to be a chronic nuisance property with a concise
description of the nuisance activities leading to his/her findings;
         (c)   It shall demand that the person in charge respond within ten
days to the Chief of Police and propose a course of action that the Chief of
Police agrees will abate the nuisance activities giving rise to the violation;
         (d)   Service shall be made either personally or by first class mail,
postage pre-paid, return receipt requested, addressed to the person in charge
at the address of the property believed to be a chronic nuisance property, or
such other place which is likely to give the person in charge notice of the
determination by the Chief of Police;
         (e)   A copy of the notice shall be served on the owner at such
address as shown on the tax rolls of Lake County, Illinois and/or the occupant,
at the address of the property, if these persons are different than the person
in charge, and shall be made either personally or by first class mail, postage
pre-paid;
         (f)   A copy of the notice shall also be posted at the property after
the ten days has elapsed from the service or mailing of the notice to the
person in charge and the person in charge has not contacted the Chief of
Police;
         (g)   The failure of any person to receive notice that the property
may be a chronic nuisance property shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the
proceedings under this chapter.
      (2)   If, after the notification, but prior to the commencement of legal
proceedings by the village pursuant to this chapter, a person in charge
stipulates with the Chief of Police that the person in charge will pursue a
course of action that parties agree will abate the nuisance activities giving
rise to the violation, the Chief of Police may agree to postpone legal
proceedings for a period of not less than ten nor more than thirty days. If the
agreed course of action does not result in the abatement of the nuisance
activity or if no agreement concerning abatement is reached within thirty days,
the Chief of Police shall request the Village Attorney or prosecuting attorney
to commence a legal proceeding to abate the nuisance.
      (3)   Concurrent with the notification procedures set forth herein, the
Chief of Police shall send copies of the notices, as well as any other
documentation which supports legal proceedings, to the Village Attorney.
   (C)   When a person in charge makes a response to the Chief of Police as
required above, any conduct or statements made in connection with the
furnishing of that response shall not constitute an admission that any nuisance
activities have or are occurring. This subsection does not require the
exclusion of any evidence which is otherwise admissible or offered for any
other purpose.
(Ord. 2015-O-21, passed 10-6-15)
§ 136.06 COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION-BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   In an action seeking closure of a chronic nuisance property, or
seeking to impose a civil penalty, the village shall have the burden of showing
by preponderance of the evidence that the property is a chronic nuisance
property.
   (B)   It is a defense to an action seeking the closure of chronic nuisance
property that the owner of the property at the time in question could not, in
the exercise of reasonable care or diligence, determine that the property had
become a chronic nuisance property, or could not, in spite of the exercise of
reasonable care and diligence, control the conduct leading to the findings that
the property is a chronic nuisance property. The owner shall have the burden of
proving this defense by a preponderance of the evidence.
   (C)   In establishing the amount of any civil penalty requested, the court
may consider any of the following factors if they find appropriate, and shall
cite those found applicable:
      (1)   The actions or lack of action taken by the person in charge to
mitigate or correct the problem at the property;
      (2)   Whether the problem at the property was repeated or continuous;
      (3)   The magnitude or gravity of the problem;
      (4)   The cooperation of the person in charge with the village;
      (5)   The cost of the village investigating and correcting or attempting
to correct the condition.
(Ord. 2015-O-21, passed 10-6-15)
§ 136.07 EMERGENCY CLOSING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In the event that it is determined that the property is an immediate
threat to the public safety and welfare, the village may apply to the Circuit
Court for such interim relief, as is deemed by the Chief of Police in
consultation with the Village Attorney to be appropriate. In such an event, the
notification provision set forth in §
136.05 need not be complied with, however, the village shall make a diligent
effort to notify the person in charge prior to a court hearing.
   (B)   In the event that the court finds the property constitutes a chronic
nuisance property as defined in §
136.02, the court may order such remedies as are provided for in this chapter.
In addition, in the event that it also finds a person in charge had knowledge
of activities or conditions of the property constituting or violating this
chapter and permitted the activities to occur, the court may assess a civil
penalty as provided for in this chapter.
   (C)   The court may authorize the Village of Winthrop Harbor to physically
secure the property against use or occupancy in the event the owner fails to do
so within the time specified by the court. In the event that the village is
authorized to secure the property, all costs reasonably incurred by the village
to affect the closure shall be accounted for and assessed as a lien against the
property. If used herein, "costs" mean those costs actually incurred by the
village for the physical securing of the property, as well as any tenant
relocation costs the village might incur.
   (D)   The Village of Winthrop Harbor employee effectuating the closure shall
prepare a statement of costs and the Village of Winthrop Harbor shall
thereafter submit such statement to the court for its review. If no objection
of the statement is made within the period described by the court, a lien in
such amount may be recorded against such property.
   (E)   Any person who is assessed the cost of closure and/or civil penalty by
the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof by the village.
   (F)   As an ancillary to any enforcement action, the court shall have the
power to adjudicate any claim brought in the form of a petition with due and
proper notice by a displaced, innocent tenant against the owner for damages
occasioned by the loss of use of any property, and the court may award judgment
in favor of such tenant against the owner in its discretion based upon the
evidence presented.
(Ord. 2015-O-21, passed 10-6-15)
§ 136.08 DISCRETIONARY ACTION.
   The provisions of this chapter are designed and intended to give discretion
to the Chief of Police, the Village Attorney, the prosecuting attorney and any
other village employees or agents. They are intended to provide useful tools
and mechanisms for dealing with chronic problem properties and to help preserve
order and peace within the community. For these reasons, the following
provisions, consistent with the reservation of discretion shall apply:
   (A)   Nothing herein is intended, and nothing shall be construed as
intending, to create rights in citizens to require action to be taken by any
official, employee or agent of the village.
   (B)   Nothing herein is intended to give any tenant whose tenancy is
disrupted by any action taken pursuant to this chapter a charge or claim
against the village for costs of relocation or loss of use of any rental
property.
(Ord. 2015-O-21, passed 10-6-15)
§ 136.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions within this chapter, and consistent
with the terms and conditions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.5, no property
shall be considered a chronic nuisance if the police investigations described
in §
136.02 arise from calls for assistance from any victim of domestic abuse or
person with a disability. Additionally, no victim of domestic abuse or person
with a disability shall be evicted, sanctioned or punished in any way resulting
from his or her seeking public assistance or police protection relating to that
abuse or condition. However, nothing herein shall prevent the enforcement of
this code against an owner of the property who may be a victim of domestic
abuse or be disabled, but whose victimhood or disability is unrelated to the
law enforcement activity causing the property to be a chronic nuisance.
(Ord. 2015-O-21, passed 10-6-15)
TITLE XV: LAND USE
   Chapter
      
150. BUILDINGS
      
APPENDIX: FORMS AND DIAGRAMS
      
151. HOUSING CODE
      
152. SUBDIVISIONS
      
153. RURAL SUBDIVISIONS
      
154. ZONING
      
154A. RECREATIONAL CANNABIS MERCANTILE REGULATIONS
      
155. FENCES
      
156. FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
      
157. TRAILERS
      
158. SIGN CODE
      
159. GENERAL LANDSCAPE STANDARDS
      
160. SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMITTING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Building Codes adopted
   
150.002   Deletions, additions and modifications to adopted Building Codes
   
150.003   Building permit fees; construction valuation
   
150.004   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.005   Temporary certificates of occupancy
   
150.006   Construction hours
   
150.007   Water walls
   
150.008   Supplemental enforcement powers
   
150.009   Final inspection required
Swimming Pools
   
150.010   Definitions
   
150.011   Public pools to comply with state regulations
   
150.012   Construction permit required
   
150.013   Application for permit
   
150.014   Tests
   
150.015   Safety devices
   
150.016   Overhead electrical conductors
   
150.017   Equipment installation
   
150.018   Drainage from pool
   
150.019   Operation and maintenance
   
150.020   Right of village to inspect and test
   
150.021   Authority of village to close
   
150.022   Fees
Encroachments
   
150.035   County-village agreement
Sheds and Accessory Structures
   
150.040   Sheds and accessory structure construction
Detached Garages
   
150.045   Detached garages
Relocation of Buildings
   
150.050   Permit required
   
150.051   Application for permit
   
150.052   Bond required
   
150.053   Permit fee
   
150.054   Notification of police department
Street Roadway Construction for New Homes
   
150.064   Requirements
   
150.065   Application of subdivision regulations
Sidewalk Construction for New Homes
   
150.085   Requirements
   
150.086   Exemptions
Satellite Antennas
   
150.095   Definitions
   
150.096   Permit required
   
150.097   Application for permit; fee
   
150.098   Ground-mounted earth stations
   
150.099   Roof-mounted earth stations
   
150.100   Appeals
Electrical Contractors
   
150.110   Definition
   
150.111   Compliance required
   
150.112   Registration of contractors
   
150.113   Examination prerequisite to registration
   
150.114   Entitlement to certificate of registration
   
150.115   Use of invalid certificate
   
150.116   Registration fee
   
150.117   Out-of-town contractors
   
150.118   Obedience to regulations
   
150.119   Electrical commission
Uniform Electrical Code
   
150.130   [Reserved]
   
150.131   Regulations of electrical utility adopted
   
150.132   Filing; incorporation of code and regulations
Cell Towers
   
150.150   Cell tower preferred placement
   
150.151   Residential placement of cell tower regulations
   
150.152   Cell tower siting application fees
Building Plan Standards
   
150.160   Building plan standards
   
150.161   Rejection by Building Department
   
150.162   Building Department review
   
150.163   Resubmission of plans
 
   
150.999   Penalty
 
   
Appendix: Forms and diagrams
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 BUILDING CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   International Building Code. The 2006 International Building Code,
First Printing, including Appendix D - Fire Areas and excluding I.C.C.
duplicate sections indicated with [F] International Code Council, shall be and
is adopted as the regulations for the construction, alterations, additions,
repair, replacement, removal, demolition, use, location, occupancy and
maintenance of all buildings and structures, and their utility and service
equipment, with the deletions, additions and modifications as set forth in §
150.002 of this chapter, as the basic Building Code of the village.
   (B)   International Mechanical Code. The minimum regulations and standards
governing the design, installation and construction of mechanical systems,
which are essential to ensure reasonable safeguards to protect the public
health and safety against the hazards of inadequate, defective or unsafe
mechanical systems and installations, as set forth in the ICC International
Mechanical Code of 2006, as promulgated and published by the International Code
Council, Inc., with deletions, additions and modifications set forth in §
150.002, shall be and are adopted as if fully set out in this division, and
made applicable to all existing or future buildings, structures and premises
within the corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   Illinois Plumbing Code. The Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Admin.
Code 890 et seq., as amended from time to time, is adopted by reference in its
current form, without modification, exception or amendment.
   (D)   International Residential Code. The 2006 International Residential
Code, first printing, including Appendix G, Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs
and Appendix K, Sound Transmission, as published by the International Code
Council, shall be and is adopted as the regulations for the construction,
alterations, additions, repair, replacement, removal, demolition, use,
location, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and structures, for one-
and two-family dwellings, and townhouses, their accessory structures, utility
and service equipment, with the deletions, additions and modifications as set
forth in §
150.002, as the One- and Two-Family Residential Building Code of the village.
   (E)   National Electrical Code. The 2005 National Electrical Code of the
National Fire Protection Association is hereby adopted as the Electrical Code
of the Village for electrical wiring and apparatus as herein provided; and each
of all of the regulations, penalties, conditions, and terms of the 2005
National Electrical Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions,
deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.002.
   (F)   International Fuel Gas Code.  The 2006 International Fuel Gas Code of
the International Code Council is hereby adopted as the Fuel Gas Code of the
village for gas-fueled installations and apparatus as herein provided; and each
of all of the regulations, penalties, conditions, and terms of the 2006
International Fuel Gas Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions,
deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.002.
   (G)   International Existing Building Code. The 2006 International Existing
Building Code of the International Code Council is hereby adopted as the
Existing Building Code of the village for structures constructed prior to the
adoption of this Code in April of 2008 as herein provided; and each of all of
the regulations, penalties, conditions, and terms of the 2006 Existing Building
Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if
any, prescribed in §
150.002.
   (H)   International Energy Conservation Code. Is adopted by reference in its
current form, without modification, exception or amendment. The Illinois Energy
Conservation Code requires design and construction professionals to follow the
latest published edition of the International Energy Conservation Code (IECC)
and the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning
Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 90.1 “Energy Standard for Buildings except Low-Rise
Residential Buildings” including amendments adopted by the Illinois Capital
Development Board.
   (I)   International Property Maintenance Code. The 2006 International
Property Maintenance Code, as published by the International Code Council, is
hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the village for regulating
and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures as herein provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms the 2006 International
Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions,
deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.002.
   (J)   Accessibility Code. The Illinois Accessibility Code, as published from
time to time by the Illinois Capital Development Board, and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of the Illinois
Accessibility Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this subchapter.
   (K)   Conflict with other village codes. In the event the text of any code
adopted by this section (including those amended or modified in §
150.002) should conflict with any other specific code section set forth in this
chapter, the specific code provisions set forth in this chapter shall be deemed
to be controlling for all purposes, but only to the extent necessary to resolve
the conflict.
   (L)   Conflicts between codes. Where any requirement of the codes adopted in
this section conflicts with any requirement contained within that code or in
other adopted codes or in referenced national standards other than this code,
then the more strict and stringent requirement, that provides for a higher
level of performance or installation, a higher quality of materials or
equipment or the requirements securing the greater public safety shall prevail
as the requirement of the village.
(‘79 Code, § 1601) (Ord. 1984-O-18, passed 9-18-84; Am. Ord. 1987-O-27, passed
8-4-87; Am. Ord. 1999-O-23, passed 10-19-99; Am. Ord. 2000-O-15, passed 10-17-
00; Am. Ord. 2008-O-8, passed 4-1-08; Am. Ord. 2015-O-19, passed 8-18-15; Am.
Ord. 2018-O-15, passed 10-16-18)
§ 150.002 DELETIONS, ADDITIONS AND MODIFICATIONS TO ADOPTED BUILDING CODES.
   (A)   IBC. The following chapters and sections of the International Building
Code as adopted in §
150.001(A) are hereby revised as follows:
      (1)   Chapter 1. Administration. Delete Chapter 1, sections 101 to and
including 115. See §§
31.065 through
31.087 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code, which shall be substituted in
their entirety.
      (2)   Sec. 202. General definitions. Add the following new definitions:
   Penthouse.  Add the following wording to the existing sentence to read:
“which shall be used for mechanical equipment only.”
   Width, clear. A clear, unobstructed opening, aisle or corridor, measured
horizontally and/or vertically between walls, sash or to any other limiting
factors or projections into the width. Where required widths or openings are
specified for various elements of egress or escape in Chapter 10 or elsewhere,
the minimum clear widths or openings shall be measured from wall to wall or
from wall to any projection into the corridor for corridors, from door jamb to
the leaf of the door in an opened position for door openings and from the top
of the sill or from the window frame to the sash of a window in an opened
position or to a mullion for windows. Example: A 32-inch nominal wide door
leaf, which is one and three-fourths (1-3/4) inches thick, actually has a clear
door opening of only twenty-nine and one-fourth (29-1/4) inches, between the
door jamb and the door leaf, in an opened position, using standard door hanging
hardware and methods.
      (3)   Sec. 402.8 Automatic Sprinkler System (Covered Mall Buildings).
Delete the Exception.
      (4)   Sec. 403.1. Applicability. Reword the sentence to read as follows:
The provisions of this section shall apply to all buildings having floors used
for human occupancy located more than six (6) stories or more than seventy-five
(75) feet above the lowest level of Fire Department vehicle access.
      (5)   Sec. 403.2 Automatic Sprinkler system (High Rise Buildings). Delete
Exceptions 1 and 2. See §
93.18 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (6)   Sec. 404.3. Automatic Sprinkler Protection (Atriums). Delete
exceptions 1 and 2 in their entirety. See §
93.18 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (7)   Sec. 407.6. Automatic Fire Detection (Group I-2). Delete Exception
1 and 2 in their entirety.
      (8)   Sec. 410.6 Automatic Sprinkler Systems (Stages and Platforms).
Delete Exception #2.
      (9)   Sec. 421. Public Bathrooms. Add this new Section 421 and add
subsection 421.1 as follows:
   Sec. 421.1. Coat Hooks. In each new public bathroom toilet stall there shall
be installed two coat hooks for use by the public; one at 48" above the floor,
and one at 62" above the floor.
      (10)   Sec. 507.2 Sprinklered, One-Story. Delete the exceptions under
this section in their entirety. See section 6-118, pertaining to fire district
limits, and
Chapter 154, Zoning, of the Municipal Code.
      (11)   Sec. 901.4. Threads. Add the following sub-section:
         Section 901.4.1. Fire Hydrants.
      Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants installed on private property shall be
located and installed as directed by the Fire Department. Fire hydrants shall
conform to the standards of the administrative authority of the jurisdiction
and the Fire Department. Fire hydrants shall not be installed on a water main
less than eight (8) inches in diameter.
      (12)   Sec. 901.6.1. Automatic Sprinkler Systems. Add to the first
sentence per the Village Sprinkler Ordinance, §
93.18 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (13)   Sec. 901.6.3. Group H. Delete the exception.
      (14)   Sec. 903.1.1. Alternative Protection (Automatic Sprinkler
Systems). Delete the section in its entirety and substitute the following: See
§
93.18 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (15)   Sec. 903.2. Where required (Automatic Sprinkler Systems). Delete
the present wording of section 903.2 and the exception in its entirety and
substitute the following:
      Where required. Automatic fire suppression systems shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of §
93.18 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (16)   Secs. 903.2.1 through and including 903.2.3.1. Delete sections
their entirety with no substitution. See §
93.18 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (17)   Secs. 903.2.6 through and including 903.2.6.1. Delete sections in
their entirety with no substitution. See §
93.18 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (18)   Secs. 903.2.8 through and including 903.2.10.1.3. Delete sections
in their entirety with no substitution. See §
93.18 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (19)   Sec. 903.3.1.1.1. Exempt locations (NFPA 13 Sprinkler Systems).
Delete Exemption Numbers 2, 3, and 4.
      (20)   Sec. 903.3.5. Water Supplies (Automatic Sprinkler Systems). Delete
the words “International Plumbing Code” and substitute “The State of Illinois
Plumbing Code.”
      (21)   Sec. 903.4. Sprinkler System Monitoring and Alarms. Delete
Exceptions 4, 5, and 7.
      (22)   Sec. 903.4.1. Signals (Transmitted). Delete the paragraph after
the first “to” and replace with “the Village of Winthrop Harbor Dispatch
Center.”
         Add the following section:
      Sec. 905.2.1. (Installation Standards, Standpipe Systems).  Per the
Village of Winthrop Harbor Fire Prevention Code, all standpipe systems shall be
supplied by a separate riser or floor control valve.
      (23)   Sec. 905.3.1. Building Height (Required Installation, Standpipe
Systems). Change “Class III” to “Class I” and change “more than 30 feet” to “30
or more feet” in each line.
      (24)   Sec. 905.3.2. Group A (Standpipe Systems). Delete Exceptions 1 and
2.
      (25)   Sec. 905.3.4. Stages (Standpipe System). Delete the Exception.
      (26)   Sec. 905.4. Location of Class 1 standpipe hose connections.  Add a
location 7 to read as follows:
      All additional areas of the building so as to be reached using one
hundred (100) feet of fire hose and a thirty-foot nozzle stream.
      (27)   Sec. 907.2. Where required (Fire Alarm and Detection Systems).
Delete the Exceptions in Sections 907.2.1, 907.2.2, 907.2.3, 907.2.4, 907.2.6,
907.2.6.1 and 907.2.7.
      (28)   Sec. 907.2.9. Use Group R-2 (Fire Alarm and Detection Systems).
Delete Exception 3.
      (29)   Sec. 907.2.10. Single and Multiple-Station Smoke Alarms. Add to
end “and per the State of Illinois Smoke Detector Act.”
      (30)   Sec. 907.3.1. Location (Manual Fire Alarm Boxes - Group E). Delete
the Exception.
      (31)   Sec. 907.6.1. Activation (Fire Alarm and Detection Systems). All
fire alarm signals shall be transmitted by an approved addressable fire alarm
panel. The fire alarm signal shall be transmitted to the Village Communications
Center via an A.E.S. radio.
      (32)   Sec. 907.8. Zones. Delete the section in its entirety. See the
Fire Prevention Code of the village.
      (33)   Sec. 1008.1.1. Size of doors. Add exception 9 to this section to
read: 9. In use group R-3, the exit door shall have a minimum door leaf of
thirty-six (36) inches, and service doors and interior habitable room doors
shall have minimum door leafs of thirty (30) inches.
      (34)   Sec. 1008.1.8.6. Delayed egress locks. Add “With prior approval of
the fire official” to the beginning of the first sentence.
      (35)   Sec. 1013.1. Where required (Guards). Change first sentence by
deleting “30 inches (762 mm)” to read “three (3) risers or eighteen (18)
inches.”
      (36)   Sec. 1023.2. Use in a means of egress (exterior exit ramps and
stairways). Add the following third sentence to read as follows: Nor shall
exterior stairways be accepted without proof of hardship acceptable to the
building official and approved by the appearance review commission.
      (37)   Chapter 11. Accessibility. Delete Chapter 11 in its entirety. See
the “Illinois Accessibility Code,” as published by the capital development
board of the state, April 1997 edition and subsequent amendments, per state
statute.
      (38)   Sec. 1206. Yards or courts. Delete section 1206.2 in its entirety.
See
Chapter 154, Zoning, of the Municipal Code.
      (39)   Sec. 1207. Sound transmission control. Delete the present wording
and section numbers and substitute the following:
      Sec. 1207.1. Scope. This section shall apply to all common interior
walls, partitions and floor/ceiling assemblies between adjacent dwelling units,
horizontally or vertically, and between a dwelling unit and adjacent public
areas such as halls, corridors, stairs, service areas or other common areas, in
all buildings of use group R, except detached single-family dwellings.
      (40)   Sec. 1207.2. Airborne noise. Partitions and floor/ceiling
assemblies separating dwelling units from each other or from building service
and common areas shall have a minimum sound transmission class (STC) of not
less than 54 for airborne noise when tested in accordance with ASTM E90 listed
in
Chapter 35. This requirement shall not apply to dwelling unit entrance doors,
but such doors shall be tightfitting to the frame and sill.
      (41)   Sec. 1207.3. Structureborne sound. Floor/ceiling assemblies
between dwelling units and between dwelling units and building service and
common areas shall have an impact insulation class (IIC) rating of not less
than 51 when tested in accordance with ASTM E492 listed in
Chapter 35.
      (42)   Sec. 1207.4. Isolation of plumbing, heating and ventilation
systems.  No plumbing waste, drain, vent or piping serving one (1) dwelling
unit shall be installed in a bedroom, dining room or living room partition of
another dwelling unit. Heating and air conditioning ducts, grills, registers
and diffusers shall not be used to supply more than one (1) dwelling unit.
Where common supply and return ducts are necessary, they shall be lined with
approved sound deadening duct liner and approved sound attenuating devices
shall be installed in the openings from the common ducts into the dwelling
units. All penetrations or openings in common walls between dwelling units or
between dwelling units and any type of building common area, such as pipe
sleeves, medicine cabinets, chutes, electrical boxes or other similar equipment
or devices, shall be offset and packed, sealed, or isolated by sufficient mass
and/or specialized sound deadening materials to maintain the required sound
transmission class rating.
      (43)   Sec. 1207.5. Tested assemblies. Assemblies of building
construction listed in GA600, listed in
Chapter 35 or tested in accordance with ASTM E 90 or ASTM E 492 may be accepted
as having the required STC and IIC ratings specified therein for determining
compliance with the requirements of this section.
      (44)   Sec. 1208.3 Room area. In the second sentence, change “not less
than seventy (70) square feet” to read “not less than one hundred (100) square
feet.”
      (45)   Sec. 1209.2. Attic spaces. In the first sentence, change the
phrase “twenty (20) inches by thirty (30) inches” to “twenty-two (22) inches by
thirty-six (36) inches”.
      (46)   Sec. 1607.1. Minimum uniformly distributed live loads, table
1607.1.  Minimum uniformly distributed live loads, occupancy or use,
residential habitable attics and sleeping rooms: change 30 PSF live load to 40
PSF live load.
      (47)   Sec. 1608.1. General. Add the following: Design snow loads and all
minimum live loads shall not be less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot.
      (48)   Sec. 1715.1.2. Vertical load capacity for joist hangers.  Add new
number 6 to existing text, to read:
         6.    Metal joist hangers shall be installed to connect joist tails to
headers, where the joist span is eight (8) feet or more between bearing points,
and shall be used to support headers where the header span is four (4) feet or
more in length.
      (49)   Sec. 1805.2.1. Frost protection (Depth of Footings). Delete
present wording and substitute the following: Except when erected upon solid
rock or otherwise protected from frost action, foundations, walls, piers and
other permanent supports of all buildings and structures larger than one
hundred twenty (120) square feet in area or ten (10) feet in height shall
extend a minimum of forty-two (42) inches below the finished outside grade and
concrete spread footings as provided by code shall be provided to distribute
all live and dead loads to the underlying allowable bearing values of the soil.
Alternatively, such structures shall be supported on piles when solid rock is
not available. Footing shall not bear on frozen soils. In all cases, footings
shall be designed according to accepted engineering practices.
         Exception: For temporary structures see IBC Sec. 3103.
      (50)   Sec. 1805.4.2.3. Plain concrete footings. Delete the present
wording of section 1805.4.2.3 and its exception and substitute the following:
Spread footings on soil shall be a minimum of eight (8) inches in depth and
eighteen (18) inches wide, with the concrete foundation wall centered on the
footing width. There shall not be less than four (4) inches of footing between
the footing edges to either side of the foundation wall.
      (51)   Sec. 1805.4.3. Masonry unit footings. Delete sections 1805.4.3,
1805.4.3.1 and 1805.4.3.2 in its entirety without substitution.
      (52)   Sec. 1805.4.5. Timber.  Delete section 1805.4.5 in its entirety
without substitution.
      (53)   Sec. 1805.4.6. Wood foundations. Delete section 1805.4.6 in its
entirety without substitution.
      (54)   Sec. 1805.5 Foundation walls. In the first sentence, change the
wording to read: Concrete foundation walls shall be designed in accordance with
Chapter 19 except that no masonry foundations shall be permitted.
      (55)   Sec. 1805.5.1. Foundation wall thickness. Delete the words “and
masonry.”
      (56)   Sec. 1805.5.1.1. Thickness at top of foundation wall. Delete the
present wording of section 1805.5.1.1 and substitute the following: The
thickness of plain concrete foundation walls shall not be less than eight (8)
inches nor shall the thickness of the foundation wall be less than the wall to
be supported.
      (57)   Sec. 1805.5.1.2. Thickness based on soil loads, unbalanced
backfill height and wall height. Delete the second and third sentences in their
entirety and add: “The thickness of plain concrete foundation walls shall not
be less than eight (8) inches nor shall the thickness of the foundation wall be
less than the wall to be supported.”
      (58)   Sec. 1805.5.2. Foundation Wall Materials. Delete the second
sentence.
      (59)   Sec. 1805.5.2.2. Masonry Foundation Walls. Delete Section in its
entirety.
      (60)   Sec. 1807.4.2. Footing Drains.
         (a)   Footing drains shall be installed on the exterior of all
basement footings and provisions shall be made to pick up groundwater around
crawl spaces where there is a combination of a basement and a crawl space under
the same building.
         (b)   Footing drains shall be bedded on two (2) inches of washed
gravel with all mud, silt or other materials or debris removed prior to placing
the gravel.
         (c)   Footing drains shall be placed on the side of the footing with
the top of the drain below the top of the footing.
         (d)   The drain shall be covered with a minimum of six (6) inches of
washed gravel (sizes one-half to three-fourth inch) to a point not less than
three (3) inches above the top of the footing and covered with resin paper.
         (e)   Required window well drains shall be of four-inch, schedule 35
PVC or equal, connected to the footing drain by means of a “T.” The end of the
riser shall be three (3) inches below the bottom of the basement window frame
and shall be provided with a grate. The riser pipe shall be securely fastened
to the wall and the window well shall be provided with coarse stone (no pea
gravel), to a level adequate to cover the grate.
         (f)   The footing drain passing through the footing to the sump pump
basin shall be of four-inch, schedule 35 PVC or equal.
      (61)   Sec. 2303.1. General. (“Minimum Standards and Quality - Wood”).
Add the following: “Structural engineered wood I-joists or open web wooden
trusses may be used in floor/ceiling assemblies in basements only when the
structure is protected by sprinklers installed in conformity with §
93.18 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.”
      (62)   Sec. 2304.11.2.2. Wood Supported by Exterior Foundation Walls. Add
the following to the end of the first sentence, to read: except that all sill
plates shall be of pressure-treated wood.
      (63)   Sec. 2308.9.1. Size, height, and spacing. Add second sentence to
read as follows: Studs used in bearing walls and partitions shall not be less
than two (2) inches by four (4) inches, nominal, on sixteen (16) inches on
center.
      (64)   Sec. 2308.9.2. Framing details. Delete exception in its entirety.
      (65)   Sec. 2308.9.2.1. Top plates. Delete exception in its entirety.
      (66)   Sec. 2308.9.2.2. Top plates for studs spaced at 24 inches (610
mm). Delete section in its entirety.
      (67)   Sec. 2308.9.2.3. Nonbearing walls and partitions. Delete present
wording and substitute the following: Studs in nonbearing walls shall be two
(2) inches by four (4) inches nominal spaced not more than twenty-four (24)
inches on center and shall be set the same as bearing walls. Flat stud
nonbearing walls may be permitted for short span walls with prior approval.
Single top plates may be used with prior approval if all joints, corners and
intersections are tied together with galvanized steel ties, three (3) inches by
six (6) inches by 0.036 inch thick, spiked with three (3) 8d nails per side.
      (68)   Sec. 2308.10.3. Rafter spans. Add a new sentence to the end of the
existing paragraph to read as follows: Roof structures with roof rafter lengths
over eighteen (18) feet long shall be structurally calculated for all live
loads and actual dead loads and the plans shall show all required crossties,
blocking and bracing necessary to resist deflection and shall show the typical
connection detail at the top plate for load transfer, and to resist uplift and
spreading of the supporting walls and shall show the bracing for any gable end
wall.
      (69)   Sec. 2406.3 Hazardous locations. Add a new number 12 to the
existing specific hazardous areas.
         12.   In all buildings except one-and two-family dwellings, a visual
horizontal “Warning” band of not less than four (4) inches wide and thirty-six
(36) inches above the floor, or permanently mounted drapes, blinds or other
similar visual warning devices shall be provided across glazing in fixed panels
adjacent to pedestrian walkways or doors to provide visual warning that glazing
is present and is not an open walkway, when, in the opinion of the building
official, such additional visual warning is necessary.
      (70)   Chapter 27. Electrical. Delete Chapter 27 in its entirety. See §
150.001(E) of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code adopting the NEC.
      (71)   Chapter 29. Plumbing systems. Delete Chapter 29 in its entirety.
See §
150.001(C) of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code adopting the Illinois Plumbing
Code.
      (72)   Sec. 3001.5 Elevator Standards Adoption. The design, construction,
installation, and alteration of elevators and conveying systems and their
components shall comply with the following standards:
         A.   American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME):
            1)   Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators (ASME A17.1-2005),
A17.1(a)-2005, and A17.1(s)-2005;
            2)   Guide for Inspection of Elevators, Escalators, and Moving
Walks (ASME A17.2-2004);
            3)   Safety Code for Existing Elevators and Escalators (ASME A17.3-
2005);
            4)   Safety Standard for Platform Lifts and Stairway Chairlifts
(ASME A18.1-2005); and
            5)   Standard for Qualification of Elevator Inspectors (ASME QEI-1-
2004).
         B.   American National Standards:
            1)   Safety Requirements for Personal Hoists and Employees
Elevators (ANSI A10.4-2004).
         C.   American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE):
            1)   Automated People Mover Standards (ASCE 21-2000).
      (73)   Sec. 3002.4. Elevator car to accommodate ambulance stretcher.
Revise the first sentence to read: “When elevator(s) are installed in a
building at least one elevator shall be provided for Fire Department emergency
access to all floors.”
      (74)   Sec. 3006.5. Shunt trip. Add a last sentence to read as follows:
The shutoff valve shall be located in the machine room with a permanent handle
to attach to the valve for shutoff purposes.
      (75)   Sec. 3103. Temporary structures. Add the following subsections:
      Sec. 3103.5  Mobile units shall meet the following:
         (a)   Mobile units shall be of an approved design, constructed and
maintained to be transported from one location to another and not mounted on a
permanent foundation.
         (b)   Mobile units shall be provided with an anchorage and tie-down
system to prevent overturning or uplift of the unit. The system shall be
provided by eyelets embedded in a concrete platform with adequate anchor plates
or hooks or other suitable means designed by the State licensed design
professional to withstand all loads as required by this code.
      (76)   Sec. 3107. Signs. Delete Section 3107 in its entirety. See the
sign regulations of
chapter 154, Zoning, of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (77)   Sec. 3109. Swimming pool enclosures. Add the sections as follows
and retain all other sections as printed:
Sec. 3109.3.1 Public swimming pool design. The design and detailing of the pool
shall be as required by the pool design professional.
Sec. 3109.4.4 Residential swimming pool design. The design and detailing of the
pool shall be as required by the pool design professional.
Sec. 3109.6. Safety devices. There shall be a safety hook or a Coast Guard-
approved ring buoy and attached rope in the pool area when the water depth is
more than four (4) feet deep at any point of the pool.
      (78)   Chapter 32. Encroachments into the Public Right-Of-Way. Delete
Chapter 32 in its entirety. See
Chapter 154, Zoning, of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (79)   Appendix D. Section D101. General (Fire District). Delete section
in its entirety and refer to
Chapter 93, Fire Prevention, of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (80)   Appendix D. Section D102.1. Types of Construction Permitted (Fire
Area). Delete subsection and refer to
Chapter 93, Fire Prevention, of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (81)   Appendix D. Section D103.1. Existing Buildings Within the Fire
District. Delete subsection and refer to
Chapter 93, Fire Prevention, of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
   (B)   IMC. The following chapters and sections of the International
Mechanical Code as adopted in §
150.001 are hereby revised as follows:
      (1)   Sec. 101.1. Title. Insert “Village of Winthrop Harbor” as name of
jurisdiction.
      (2)   Sec. 106.5.2. Fee schedule. Delete the present wording and
substitute the following:
Fee schedule. The fees for all permits for all mechanical work are as provided
for in §
150.003 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code and shall include such other
building, plumbing and electrical permits as may be necessary for the
installation and completion of any mechanical installations.
      (3)   Sec. 108.4. Violation. Delete the first sentence and substitute the
following:
Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of
this code shall, upon conviction thereof, be subjected to a fine of not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and
the costs of prosecution.
         Second sentence remains as printed.
      (4)   Sec. 108.5. Stop work orders.  Delete section in its entirety and
substitute the following:
Stop work orders. The procedures for executing, posting and releasing stop work
orders are as provided in §
31.068 in the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (5)   Sec. 109. Means of appeal. Delete section in its entirety and
substitute the following:
Means of appeal. All appeals shall be taken to the board of building appeals
and shall comply with all procedures and provisions of §§
32.01 through
32.07, pertaining to the Planning and Zoning Board, of the Winthrop Harbor
Municipal Code.
      (6)   Sec. 606.5. Smoke detector annunciator. The following is added as
section 606.5 to read as follows:
Smoke detector annunciator. Air distributions systems required to have an
approved smoke detector for installation within air ducts and/or plenums, but
which do not require supervision, as provided for in 606.4.1, shall be provided
with a local smoke detector annunicator in an accessible area where it can be
seen, as approved by the fire official.
   (C)   WaterSense fixtures and irrigation controllers required. Pursuant to
17 Ill. Adm. Code 3730.307 (c)(4) and subject to the Illinois Plumbing Code (77
Ill. Adm. Code 890) and the Lawn Irrigation Contractor and Lawn Sprinkler
System Registration Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 892), all new plumbing fixtures and
irrigation controllers installed after the effective date of the ordinance
codified herein shall bear the WaterSense label (as designed by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency WaterSense Program), when such labeled fixtures
are available.
   (D)   IRC. The following chapters and sections of the International
Residential Code as adopted in section 6-211 are hereby revised as follows:
      (1)   Chapter 1. Administration. Delete Chapter 1 in its entirety. See §§
31.065 through
31.087 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code, which shall be substituted in
their entirety.
      (2)   Part VII. Plumbing. Delete Chapters 25 through 32 in their
entirety. See §
150.001(C) of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code, adopting the Illinois
Plumbing Code, which shall be substituted in their entirety.
      (3)   Part VIII. Electrical. Delete Chapters 33 through 42 in their
entirety. See §
150.001(E) of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code, adopting National Electrical
Code, which shall be substituted in their entirety.
      (4)   R-301.2. Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria. Amend Table
R301.2(1) as follows:
         Ground Snow Load: 30 psf
         Wind Speed (mph): 90
         Seismic Design Category: A
         Subject to Damage From:
         Weathering: Severe
         Frost line depth: 42”
         Termite: Moderate-Heavy
         Winter Design Temp: -4 degrees
         Ice Shield Underlayment Required: Yes
         Flood Hazard: January 1980/September 1997 and September 2000
         Air Freezing Index: 1687
         Mean Annual Temp: 47.6 degrees
      (5)   R301.5 Live Load. All live loads shall not be less than thirty (30)
pounds per square foot. Revise Table R301.5 sleeping rooms live load to be
“40”.
      (6)   R311.4.2 Door Type and Size. In the last sentence, after the word
“dimensions”, add the phrase “Except that doors in required means of egress
from habitable spaces shall be a minimum of 78 inches in height and a minimum
of 30 inches in width”.
      (7)   R-402.1 Wood Foundations. Substitute Section R-402.1 in its
entirety with the following: Wood foundations shall not be permitted. Delete
the following relations sections as noted: R401.1 the third and last sentences;
R401.1 Exceptions #1 and 2; R403.2; R403.1(2); R403.1(3); R404.2; R405.2 and
R403.1 the words “wood foundations.”
      (8)   R-402.2 Concrete (Foundations). Add the following: Masonry
foundations shall not be permitted. Delete the following related sections as
noted: R403.1 in the first sentence “or fully grounded masonry or”; R404.1.1;
R404.1.8.
      (9)   R-403.1.1. Minimum Size (Footings). Replace the third and fourth
sentences with the following: Spread footings on soil shall be a minimum of 8”
deep and 18” wide with the concrete foundation wall centered on the footing
width with a minimum of 4” of footing between the footing edges to either side
of the foundation wall.
      (10)   R-403.1.4 Minimum Depth (Footings). Delete section and substitute
the following: Except when erected upon solid rock or otherwise protected from
frost action, foundations, walls, piers and other permanent supports of all
buildings and structures larger than one hundred twenty (120) square feet in
area or ten (10) feet in height shall extend a minimum of forty-two (42) inches
below the finished outside grade and concrete spread footings as provided by
code shall be provided to distribute all live and dead loads to the underlying
allowable bearing values of the soil. Alternatively, such structures shall be
supported on piles when solid rock is not available. Footing shall not bear on
frozen soils. In all cases, footings shall be designed according to accepted
engineering practices.
      (11)   R-404.1.5 Foundation Wall Thickness Based on Walls Supported.
Delete the present wording of section R404.1.5 and substitute the following:
The thickness of plain concrete foundation walls shall not be less than eight
(8) inches nor shall the thickness of the foundation wall be less than the wall
to be supported.
      (12)   R405.1 Footing Drains.
         (1)   Footing drains shall be installed on the exterior of all
basement footings and provisions shall be made to pick up groundwater around
crawl spaces where there is a combination of a basement and a crawl space under
the same building.
         (2)   Footing drains shall be bedded on two (2) inches of washed
gravel with all mud, silt or other materials or debris removed prior to placing
the gravel.
         (3)   Footing drains shall be placed on the side of the footing with
the top of the drain below the top of the footing.
         (4)   The drain shall be covered with a minimum of six (6) inches of
washed gravel (sizes one-half to three-fourth inch) to a point not less than
three (3) inches above the top of the footing and covered with resin paper.
         (5)   Required window well drains shall be of four-inch, schedule 35
PVC or equal, connected to the footing drain by means of a “T.” The end of the
riser shall be three (3) inches below the bottom of the basement window frame
and shall be provided with a grate. The riser pipe shall be securely fastened
to the wall and the window well shall be provided with coarse stone (no pea
gravel), to a level adequate to cover the grate.
         (6)   The footing drain passing through the footing to the sump pump
basin shall be of four-inch, schedule 35 PVC or equal.
      (13)   R408.4 Access. Change the minimum opening sizes in sentences two,
three and four to read: “22 inches by 36 inches.”
      (14)   R502.2  Add subsection R502.2.3 as follows:
R502.2.3 Prefabricated Wood I-Joists (Design and Construction).  Structural
engineered wood I-joists or open web wooden trusses may be used in floor/
ceiling assemblies in basements only when the structure is protected by
sprinklers installed in conformity with §
93.18 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
      (15)   R-502.3.1 Sleeping Areas and Attic Joists. Change “Table R502.3.1
(1)” to “Table R502.3.1(2)” and change the design live load of “30 psf (1.44
kn/m2)” to “40 psf.” Revise: Table R301.5 sleeping rooms live load to be “40.”
      (16)   R-502.11.1 and R-802.10.2 Design (Wood Truss). Change the last
sentence to read as follows: The truss design drawings with related stress
diagrams shall be prepared, signed and seals by an architect and/or structural
engineer licensed in the State of Illinois.
      (17)   R807.1 Attic Access. Attic access openings shall be a minimum of
twenty-two (22) inches by thirty-six (36) inches with at least thirty-six (36)
inches of headroom above the access opening, and shall be readily accessible
for emergency access. A walk-in closet aisle of sufficient size may be
acceptable but closets are generally not acceptable.
      (18)   Appendix K. Section AK102 Structural-Borne Sound.  Revise minimum
STC rating from 45 to 54.
      (19)   Appendix K. Section AK103 Structural-Borne Sound. Revise minimum
IIc rating from 45 to 51.
('79 Code, § 1601) (Ord. 1984-O-18, passed 9-18-84; Am. Ord. 1987-O-27, passed
8-4-87; Am. Ord. 1999-O-23, passed 10-19-99; Am. Ord. 2000-O-15, passed 10-17-
00; Am. Ord. 2008-O-8, passed 4-1-08; Am. Ord. 2015-O-19, passed 8-18-15)
§ 150.003 BUILDING PERMIT FEES; CONSTRUCTION VALUATION.
   (A)   Basic building permit fees.
Proposed Improvement                     Fees
                        ($ or % of total cost of improvement)
New construction, alteration, addition, remodeling, repairs:
   Less than $5,000 total project cost               $100
   Projects in excess of $5,000                  2%
   Certificate of Occupancy                     $50
Signs:
   Basic charge                        2% or $50, whichever is greater
Temporary bleachers, grandstands, seating stands:
   Removable type:                        $50
      Plus for each 100 seating capacity:            $5
      Plus for each 5 days’ occupancy:               $25
Moving of buildings:
   Over private property:                     $100
      Plus for each 10,000 cubic feet contained:         $50
   Over public property:                     $500
      Plus for each 10,000 cubic feet contained:         $50
   Garage only:                           $100
Demolition or wrecking of building:
   Basic permit:                           $100
Oil, fuel, gas and inflammable liquids:
   Storage tank, per tank charges:
      Interior domestic storage only, basic permit:         $10
      Exterior domestic storage only, basic permit:         $8
      Plus for each 100 gallon capacity:               $3
Swimming pools:                        2% or $50, whichever is greater
Driveways, sidewalks, decks:                  2% or $50, whichever is greater
Heating, ventilation and air conditioning                2% or $50, whichever
is greater
Fences                           2% or $50, whichever is greater
   (B)   Final Inspections. The cost of the final inspection and a return to
the site to verify that all matters requiring corrections (as determined at the
time of final inspection) have been completed shall be deemed to have been
included in the building permit fee.
   (C)   Additional Inspections. An additional charge of $100 per inspection
will be assessed for every visit to the site by the Building Inspector after
the final inspection has been requested and made as defined in division (B) and
it has been determined that additional visits by the Inspector are required
because of non-compliance.
   (D)   Plan Review Fees:
      (1)   Commercial or industrial: $50 per hour or part thereof used by plan
reviewer, $100 minimum charge.
      (2)   Condominium or apartments: $50 per hour or part thereof used by
plan reviewer, $100 minimum charge.
      (3)   Multiple Family: $50 per hour or part thereof used by plan
reviewer, $100 minimum charge.
      (4)   Single Family: $250 flat rate.
      (5)   Garages, screen porches, decks: $50 flat rate.
   (E)   Bonds. In addition to other security to be provided by a developer,
subdivider, builder or owner of record, a construction site bond, letter of
credit or other security acceptable to the village will be required on all new
residential construction prior to the issuance of any building permits in an
amount sufficient to cover the estimated repairs or restoration to any
previously or newly installed improvements to ensure they have been or will be
maintained as required by village ordinance. The bond will be inclusive of the
following:
      (1)   Sidewalks.
      (2)   Public utilities.
      (3)   Curbs, gutters and other drainage requirements.
      (4)   Roadway pavement restoration.
      (5)   All erosion and sediment control methods.
      (6)   As built grading plan. Prior to issuance of the certificate of
occupancy, it is required to furnish the Building Department with an as built
grading plan signed and sealed by an Illinois registered professional engineer
or an Illinois registered land surveyor. The Village Engineer will review this
document for approval and acceptance. It will remain a permanent record and
placed on file with the Village Clerk.
   (F)   Valuations. For the purposes of computing building and construction
valuations toward establishing fees for the issuance of building and
construction permits, the rates of structural valuations hereinafter set forth
shall apply. For types or methods of construction not specified herein, the
Building Official shall establish valuations based upon and comparable to
structures contained herein of similar construction, use, design, and
materials.
      (1)   Residential valuation. The value of construction shall be
calculated per square foot as follows:
Frame construction with basement          $125
   Without basement                    less 10%
Brick or stone veneer with basement       $125
   Without basement                    less 10%
Brick or stone construction with basement $125
   Without basement                    less 10%
Garage (unattached)                       $30
Garage (attached)                         $35
 
      (2)   Commercial valuation. The value of commercial construction shall be
calculated per square foot as follows:
         (a)   An initial value of $75 per square foot shall be assigned to the
building, and an initial fee calculated based upon that value; and
         (b)   At the time that the building is scheduled to receive a final
occupancy permit (with or without tenant improvements), the developer shall be
required to submit a sworn contractor’s statement showing the exact cost of all
improvements. A final calculation shall be made on the basis of the final,
exact cost, with the developer being charged or credited for any underpayment
or overpayment at that time. The final occupancy permit shall not be issued
unless and until this step is completed, and all sums due the village have been
paid in full.
      (3)   Commercial tenant improvements. The value of commercial tenants’
improvements shall be calculated at $115 per square foot, including the entire
area leased to the tenant which is under roof and within the shell of any
commercial building.
      (4)   Residential basements. The square footage of residential space
shall be calculated on the basis of living area on the first or second floor,
ignoring any improved living area in any basement. The value of the
construction of a basement living area in any residential building shall be $50
per square foot.
      (5)   The square footage of commercial space shall include all areas
under roof and inside the shell of the building, including any basement space.
   (G)   In addition to the fees hereinabove set forth in divisions (B) through
(F), the Building Official upon issuance of a building permit shall collect
from the applicant the water main tap-in fees and the sewer line tap-in fees,
and applicable front footages for sewer and water, where such services are
available and in such amount as set by the Board of Trustees.
   (H)   The Building Official upon issuance of a building permit shall collect
for the water meter in such amount as set by the Board of Trustees and shall
record the serial number on the building permit application.
   (I)   Where bonds are required for the satisfactory completion of work, or
to the repair of damage to public property, the Building Official shall record
such bond upon the building permit application.
   (J)   Senior citizen discount. Senior citizen residents of this village
shall be entitled to a discount in the amount of 10% of the total permit fee,
which shall be credited toward the building fees otherwise due and payable
provided that the following terms and conditions are met:
      (1)   The construction or repair is to a single-family residence owned by
the applicant; and
      (2)   The applicant can provide a driver’s license or other appropriate
documents proving that he or she has reached the age of 65 years; and
      (3)   The applicant provides evidence that he or she resides in the
property which is the subject of the application; and
      (4)   This discount is only available for repairs or remodeling and is
not available for new construction. In no case shall any permit fee be less
than $50, regardless of discount or purpose.
   (G)   Professional fees. See §
36.04.
   (H)   Refunds. For refunds of building permit fees paid, see §
36.08.
(‘79 Code, § 1602) (Ord. 1981-O-8, passed 4-21-81; Am. Ord. 1987-O-7, passed 2-
3-87; Am. Ord. 1987-O-13, passed 3-17-87; Am. Ord. 1990-O-08, passed 3-20-90;
Am. Ord. 1993-O-13, passed 6-15-93; Am. Ord. 2001-O-24, passed 11-6-01; Am.
Ord. 2004-O-18, passed 10-5-04; Am. Ord. 2005-O-2, passed 3-1-05; Am. Ord.
2005-O-24, passed 11-1-05; Am. Ord. 2007-O-13, passed 6-5-07; Am. Ord. 2022-O-
13, passed 10-18-22; Am. Ord. 2023-O-2, passed 1-17-23)
§ 150.004 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Any owner of property or applicant seeking issuance of a certificate
of occupancy for any erected, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged or
structurally altered building or other structure is required as a prior
condition precedent to issuance of any certificate of occupancy for any such
improvement to first file an unexecuted certificate of occupancy with the
Benton Township Assessor.
   (B)   Any owner of property or applicant seeking issuance of a certificate
of occupancy is required to obtain from the Village Building Inspector a
certificate of occupancy form showing that the unexecuted certificate of
occupancy has been filed, and that the property is subject to increased
assessment from the date of issue of the certificate on a proportionate basis
for the year in which the improvement was completed.
   (C)   The owner of the property or applicant shall contact the Township
Assessor's Office for an appointment for an inspection. Upon completion of
inspection, the owner of the property or applicant shall place on file an
executed certificate of occupancy with the Village of Winthrop Harbor
Department of Building. Upon completion of an inspection of said property by
the Building Official and the issuance of certificate of occupancy, a certified
copy of said document will be filed with the Benton Township Assessor by the
Village of Winthrop Harbor through its Department of Building and Zoning.
(Ord. 1990-O-06, passed 3-6-90)
§ 150.005 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   It is the policy of this village to avoid issuance of temporary
certificates of occupancy (“CO”) because of the problems inherent with them,
mainly involving circumstances where the completion of the work on the building
or grounds is not completed on a timely basis following issuance of the CO.
   (B)   Wintertime temporary CO’s will be issued from November 1 through April
1 provided that landscaping (NOT final grading) is the only remaining part of
the construction awaiting completion. Any wintertime temporary CO shall require
posting of a $5,000 landscaping bond, and all work shall be completed not later
than the next following May 31.
   (C)   Special temporary CO’s will be issued from April 2 through October 31
only when all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The only remaining work is landscaping (NOT final grading);
      (2)   A $5,000 landscaping bond is posted;
      (3)   All remaining landscaping work shall be completed within 30 days of
the issuance of the temporary CO; and
      (4)   The delay in completion is a result of inclement weather, not the
fault of the owner or builder of the structure.
   (D)   The determination of whether landscaping is the only remaining
construction shall be made by the Village Engineer, and the applicant shall pay
any fees that the Engineer may charge for the review and determination.
   (E)   The landscaping bond shall be in the form of a check made payable to
the village drawn on good funds. The village will deposit the landscaping bond
check upon receipt. Provided that the landscaping work is completed within the
time permitted, the bond shall be refunded. However, if the work is not
completed on time, the bond is forfeit. The village shall then complete the
landscaping, and if the amount of the bond is insufficient to cover the expense
of the same, it shall have the right to bill the builder, homeowner, or
contractor to recover any such additional expenses it shall incur.
   (F)   The village shall charge an administration fee in the amount of 2% of
the escrowed funds each time an escrow is established, which funds shall be
collected at the time that the escrow is established.
   (G)   Nothing herein shall affect the other requirements for a CO, including
those set forth in §
150.004 of this code.
(Ord. 2005-O-6, passed 4-19-05)
§ 150.006 CONSTRUCTION HOURS.
   (A)   Weekday hours. It is forbidden to perform or permit performance of
construction work prior to the hour of 7:00 a.m. or to permit the performance
of construction work after the hour of 7:00 p.m., on any non-holiday Monday
through Friday.
   (B)   Saturday hours. It is forbidden to perform or permit performance of
construction work prior to the hour of 7:00 a.m. or to permit the performance
of construction work after the hour of 3:00 p.m. on any Saturday.
   (C)   Holiday hours. It is forbidden to perform or permit performance of
construction work prior to the hour of 7:00 a.m. or to permit the performance
of construction work after the hour of 3:00 p.m. on any holiday that falls on
any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, or Saturday.
   (D)   Sunday. It is forbidden to perform or permit performance of
construction work on any Sunday.
   (E)   Definitions.     For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSTRUCTION WORK. The broadest possible meaning, including but not
limited to all excavating, paving, carpentry, electrical, plumbing, concrete
work, roofing, siding, or other trades work on a building under construction,
repair, or remodeling, other than emergency work on existing structures or
routine maintenance that does not cause a substantial disturbance of the peace
and quiet in any residential neighborhood.
      HOLIDAY. Any holiday recognized by the state or the federal government as
an official holiday.
   (F)   Exemption. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit or regulate work
performed by any homeowner on his or her own residence, provided that such work
does not cause an unreasonable disturbance of the peace and quiet in any
residential neighborhood.
(Ord. 2005-O-23, passed 10-18-05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.007 WATER WALLS.
   Notwithstanding any code provision set forth in this chapter, any wall of
any structure constructed after the adoption of this section in April of 2008
in which plumbing pipes are located shall meet the following minimum
provisions:
   (A)   Any wall which contains any plumbing lines, stacks, branches of
risers, any one of which is at least one and one-half inch minimum diameter in
size, shall be constructed of not less than two-inch by six-inch framing
members.
   (B)   Any measures necessary to protect such plumbing from freezing shall be
the joint responsibility of the architect, engineer and general contractor.
   (C)   Drilling and notching shall comply with the requirements of the
International Building Code, 2006 and the International Residential Code, 2006.
(Ord. 2008-O-8, passed 4-1-08)
§ 150.008 SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
    In addition to all other powers granted to the Building Official and any
and all Building Inspectors in this code, or in the uniform codes adopted by
this code, the Community Development Director shall have the following non-
cumulative powers:
   (A)   To charge a double permit fee for work commenced without a required
building permit;
   (B)   To require and charge the contractor and/or owner for any additional
inspections necessary to ensure the safety and code compliance of work
commenced without a required building permit;
   (C)   To require any re-work of non-code-compliant work commenced prior to
obtaining a required building permit;
   (D)   To issue citations for work or practices that violate any of the
provisions of this section, and to have the same served upon the contractor
and/or owner either in person, by any Building Inspector, by any village police
officer or by one of the village's Community Service Officers.
(Ord. 2011-O-2, passed 1-18-11)
§ 150.009 FINAL INSPECTION REQUIRED.  
   In all circumstances where a building permit has been issued, it is the
joint and several duty of the owner and any contractor obtaining a permit to
obtain a final inspection of the work encompassed within the permit, and to
comply with all conditions necessary to pass that final inspection. In
addition, the following conditions shall, in all cases, apply:
   (A)   This requirement applies in all instances, including those where no
certificate of occupancy is required by the applicable building codes set forth
in this chapter or adopted hereunder.
   (B)   The final inspection must be ordered and completed promptly at the
completion of the work encompassed within the permit, and in any event, prior
to the expiration of the building permit.
   (C)   The Community Development Director and/or any Building Official, at
his or her sound discretion, shall not issue any building permits to any person
who demonstrates a pattern of refusing or habitually failing to secure final
inspections on a timely basis.
(Ord. 2011-O-2, passed 1-18-11)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE POOL. A swimming pool or wading pool at a private residence intended
only for the use of the individual owner, the owner's family and friends. This
includes portable or temporary-type pools or plastic, rubberized cloth, or
similar materials installed either above or below ground elevation.
   PUBLIC POOL. All swimming pools and wading pools other than private
residence installations. This includes municipal, park district, association,
club, camp, and school pools, as well as those at motels and hotels.
   SWIMMING POOL or WADING POOL. An artificial pool of water and auxiliary
structures including dressing and locker rooms, toilets, showers, and other
areas and enclosures that are intended for the use of persons using the pool.
('79 Code, § 1606(1))
§ 150.011 PUBLIC POOLS TO COMPLY WITH STATE REGULATIONS.
   Public pools, their equipment and operation, shall comply with the state
department of public health minimum sanitary requirements for swimming pools
and bathing places.
('79 Code, § 1606(2)) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.012 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or organization shall proceed to construct a swimming pool or make
major alterations at an existing pool without first having obtained a permit
therefor, issued and signed by the Building Inspector or the Inspector’s
authorized representative upon approved application. No permit is required for
erection of a portable pool if the capacity of such pool is 1,000 gallons or
less.
('79 Code, § 1606(3)) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.013 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a permit required by §
150.012 shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the village. Such
application shall contain such information and drawings as shall be required by
the village for a proper understanding of the proposed work. Each application
for permit for the construction of a public pool shall be accompanied by an
approval permit for the construction issued by the County Health Department and
reviewed by Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and North Shore Sanitation
District. Applications for permits shall be accompanied by plans and
specifications in duplicate and in sufficient detail shall show the following:
   (A)   Plot plan elevation with dimensions drawn to scale.
   (B)   Pool dimensions, depth, and volume in gallons.
   (C)   Type and size of filter systems, filtration and backwash capacity.
   (D)   Pool piping layout with all pipe sized, and valves shown and types of
materials to be used.
   (E)   The rated capacity and head of filtration and backwash flow of the
pool pump in gallons per minute with the size and type of motor.
   (F)   Location and type of waste disposal system.
('79 Code, § 1606(4))
§ 150.014 TESTS.
   All pool piping and the installation and construction of the pool piping
system shall be in accordance with the approved plans. The entire pool piping
system shall be tested with a water test of 100 PSI and proved tight before
covering or concealing.
('79 Code, § 1606(5))
§ 150.015 SAFETY DEVICES.
   (A)   Every person owning land on which there is situated a swimming pool
which contains 18 inches or more of water in depth at any point, shall erect
and maintain thereon an adequate enclosure either surrounding the property or
pool area, sufficient to make such a body of water inaccessible to small
children. Such enclosure, including gates thereon, must extend at least 4 feet
above the underlying ground and all gates must be self-latching with latches
placed at least 4 feet above the underlying ground or otherwise made
inaccessible from the outside to small children.
   (B)   A natural barrier or other protective device may be used so long as
the degree of protection afforded by the substituted devices or structures is
not less than the protection afforded by the enclosure, gate, and latch
described in division (A).
('79 Code, § 1606(6)) (Am. Ord. 2003-O-7, passed 4-15-03) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.016 OVERHEAD ELECTRICAL CONDUCTORS.
   No overhead electrical conductors shall be installed within 15 feet of any
swimming pool. All metal fences, enclosures, or railings near or adjacent to a
swimming pool to which bathers have access, which may become electrically alive
as a result of contact with broken overhead conductors, or from any other
cause, shall be effectively grounded.
('79 Code, § 1606(7)) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.017 EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION.
   Pumps, filters, and other mechanical and electrical equipment for public and
semi-public swimming pools shall be in such manner as to be accessible only to
authorized persons and not to bathers. Construction and drainage shall be such
as to avoid the entrance and accumulation of water in the vicinity of
electrical equipment.
('79 Code, § 1606(8)) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.018 DRAINAGE FROM POOL.
   Drain outlet connections from a pool shall not be connected into village
storm sewers. Pool waste water discharge shall be made into the village
sanitary sewer if available.
('79 Code, § 1606(9)) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.019 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All private residential swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition, and all equipment shall be maintained in a satisfactory
operating condition during periods the pool is in use.
   (B)   No private residential swimming pool shall be used, kept, maintained,
or operated in the village if such use, keeping, maintaining, or operating
shall be the occasion of any nuisance or shall be dangerous to life or
detrimental to health.
   (C)   Chlorine disinfectant in the form of sodium or calcium hypochlorite,
or chlorine gas or bromine or an acceptable substitute, shall be applied daily
as frequently as needed to maintain a definite residual throughout the pool
volume while the pool is in use.
('79 Code, § 1606(10)) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.020 RIGHT OF VILLAGE TO INSPECT AND TEST.
   The representatives of the village shall have the right and authority to
inspect any pool or to check the operation thereof during reasonable daylight
hours.
('79 Code, § 1606(11))
§ 150.021 AUTHORITY OF VILLAGE TO CLOSE.
   If a representative of the village shall find, after inspection, that the
operation of the pool does not meet the sanitary and safety requirements of
this subchapter, the representative shall direct that the pool be closed until
the sanitary and safety requirements are met.
('79 Code, § 1606(12))
§ 150.022 FEES.
   The fee for a permit for the erection of a swimming pool shall be determined
in accordance with Ord. 1978-O-6, passed 4-4-78, as amended from time to time.
('79 Code, § 1606(13)) (Ord. 1983-O-25, passed 9-1-82)
ENCROACHMENTS
§ 150.035 COUNTY-VILLAGE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Whereas the county, under the terms of a State-County Agreement, has
entered into an additional Agreement with the village as part of said
Agreement, the village has agreed to enact regulations relative to the removal
of encroachments within certain rights-of-way for certain improvements, in
accordance with the following definitions:
      (1)   CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA. That area lying between the project
right-of-way limits and the roadway right-of-way limits. The village will
permit the state and county to enter within this area to perform all necessary
construction operations in connection with this improvement.
      (2)   ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign, or any other structure or
object of any kind (with the exception of utilities, public road signs, and
municipally-owned parking meters) which is placed, located, or maintained in,
on, under, or over any portion of the roadway right-of-way.
      (3)   PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT. Existing awnings, marquees, advertising
signs, and similar overhanging structures supported from buildings immediately
adjacent to the roadway right-of- way at locations where there is continuous
sidewalk extending to and through the frontage of the building line, and which
do not impair the free and safe flow of traffic on the highway, may be
permitted, upon the approval of the State Department of Public Works and
Buildings, to remain under a permit issued by the State Department of Public
Works and Buildings.
      (4)   ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by
dedication or by fee simple for highway purposes; also the areas acquired by
temporary easement during the time the easement is in effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect or
cause to be erected, or to retain or cause to be retained any encroachment
above defined within the limits of the project right-of-way or roadway right-
of-way where no project right-of-way lines have been established.
   (C)   Project right-of-way lines will hereafter be established, pursuant to
the agreement entered into by and between the village and Lake County on 6-20-
72.
   (D)   The village hereby agrees that it will cause to be removed all
encroachments less permanent in nature, such as overhanging structures
supported by poles or similar structures, moveable signs, or advertising
displays which are encroachments within the roadway right-of-way.
   (E)   This section is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be
construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinances or part of any
ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
('79 Code, § 1607(1) - (4)) Penalty, see §
150.999
SHEDS AND ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
§ 150.040 SHEDS AND ACCESSORY STRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Floors regulated. Sheds and other accessory structures, other than
garages and other buildings designed to house or store motor vehicles, shall be
soundly constructed upon four-inch-thick concrete pads cushioned on a compacted
gravel base of not less than four inches thick, unless the floor of a shed
shall be an integrated structural component of a pre-fabricated shed, in which
case the floor shall be constructed of structural plastic, structural steel or
fiberglass so that it cannot absorb and retain gasoline or other flammable
materials and thereby increase the risk of fire or explosion. No shed or other
accessory structure shall be constructed or maintained with a dirt or gravel
floor.
   (B)   Cargo containers prohibited. No metal box or shipping container,
including but not limited to, seagoing cargo containers, railroad-compatible
shipping containers, truck-mountable unitized steel containers, intermodal
shipping containers or other similar device, may be used or maintained as a
shed or other accessory building in any zoning district. Any cargo container
being used as a shed at the time of the adoption of amendatory Ordinance No.
2011-O-4 on March 1, 2011, shall be removed from the premises where it is
located by September 1, 2011.
(Ord. 2002-O-35, passed 9-3-02; Am. Ord. 2011-O-4, passed 3-1-11) Penalty, see
§
150.999
DETACHED GARAGES
§ 150.45 DETACHED GARAGES.
   (A)   Detached garages and other buildings designed to house or store motor
vehicles shall be soundly constructed upon reinforced concrete pads cushioned
on a compacted gravel base with footings as set forth hereinbelow. No garage or
other accessory structure shall be constructed or maintained with a dirt or
gravel floor. The specific requirements of the concrete base shall be as
follows:
      (1)   The top of the slab shall sit not less than six inches above the
high point in the site grade;
      (2)   The base of the footings shall be not less than 18 inches below
grade on all sides;
      (3)   The footings shall be a minimum of 12 inches across at the bottom,
resting on undisturbed soil;
      (4)   All base plates shall be connected with 1/2-inch diameter anchor
bolts set in the place prior to the pour, not less than seven inches in length
and not more than six feet on center, and there shall be at least one such
anchor bolt on each side of any door and one at each side of each corner;
      (5)   The concrete footing reinforcement shall consist of one #5 rebar or
two #4 rebars set in a continuous loop around the garage footing, with all ends
overlapping not less than two feet and tied securely;
      (6)   The slab shall consist of a minimum of six inch by six inch welded
wire mesh with six-inch overlaps tied at any joints (fiber mesh concrete alone
is not permitted);
      (7)   The slab shall be poured with a minimum of four inches of concrete
set on a minimum four inches of compacted gravel base;
      (8)   There shall be a minimum two inches of pitch from the rear to the
overhead door opening(s);
      (9)   Floor drains may be permitted if otherwise allowed under § 890.520
of the Illinois Plumbing Code;
      (10)   All organic soils shall be removed from under the slab and
footings prior to the forming and pouring.
   (B)   No so-called temporary garage shall be permitted to be constructed or
maintained in the village. Temporary garages include but are not limited to
plastic sheeting stretched over pipe or poles, light duty aluminum structures
without strong frames, and the like. Many impermissible temporary garages are
commonly sold as “instant garages” or “instant carports.” Nothing herein shall
regulate any use of a close-fitting car cover made of plastic, cloth, or other
material that is designed and used to cover only one motor vehicle.
   (C)   All detached garages constructed or substantially rebuilt after March
15, 2005, shall be solidly built of frame, face brick, or masonry construction
and except for brick or masonry structures shall be faced or sided with
permanent siding designed to withstand weather and provide a sightly aspect to
the structure. Roofs shall be constructed with hurricane clips and trusses or
other approved joist structures so as to provide sufficient structural
integrity to the unit as to ensure stability during storm events. All roofs
shall have a tarpaper base covered with asphalt shingles, cedar shake, slate,
or other approved weatherproof covering.
   (D)   All detached garages constructed or substantially rebuilt after March
15, 2005, shall have the following electrical components and specifications:
      (1)   Installed underground electrical service providing a minimum of 110
volts and at least two 20 ampere circuits;
      (2)   At least two wall-mounted duplex receptacles protected by ground
fault circuit interrupters;
      (3)   At least one overhead light fixture operated by a wall-mounted
switch;
      (4)   At least one overhead duplex receptacle for powering an overhead
garage door opener.
   (E)   For penalty, see §
150.999.
(Ord. 2005-O-5, passed 4-19-05)
RELOCATION OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.050 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to relocate a building which requires the utilization
of any public street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way within the village
without first having secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits
shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall state the name of the applicant, a
description of the building sought to be relocated, the present location of
said building, the exact location where said building is to be relocated, the
date on which the work pertaining to said relocation is to be commenced, the
date on which all work connected with said relocation is to be finalized, and
the person or firm who is to do the actual relocation or moving work. No such
permit shall be issued except on order of the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 1608(1)) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.051 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   No permit shall be issued if the building sought to be moved or relocated
does not fully comply with the requirements of the ordinances of the village.
Upon receipt of an application for a permit, the Village Clerk shall refer such
application to the proper officer for making an investigation or inspection and
said officer shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within five
days after receiving the application or a copy thereof.
('79 Code, § 1608(2))
§ 150.052 BOND REQUIRED.
   Each applicant shall file a bond, with surety to be approved by the Board of
Trustees, conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss or damage resulting
from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the same. Said bond shall be in
an amount of not less than $5,000.
('79 Code, § 1608(3))
§ 150.053 PERMIT FEE.
   The permit fee for relocating a single-family dwelling as defined by the
village zoning code (Chapter 154) shall be $200. Permit fees for other
buildings shall be determined by the Board of Trustees.
('79 Code, § 1608(4))
§ 150.054 NOTIFICATION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The village Police Department shall be notified by the applicant concerning
the route to be traveled in moving and relocating said building, and the
proposed time schedule. Said route and proposed time schedule shall meet with
the approval of the Police Department of the village.
('79 Code, § 1608(5))
STREET ROADWAY CONSTRUCTION FOR NEW HOMES
§ 150.064 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When a person constructs one or more homes in a single block of a
previously platted subdivision, he or she shall improve the street roadway in
accordance with the requirements given herein and shall connect the street
roadway to a primary street as defined in §
152.005, the connection being in accordance with the requirements given herein.
   (B)   The roadway cross section shall be as shown in §1 of the Appendix
which follows this chapter. All materials and construction procedures shall be
in accordance with the Standard Specifications of Road and Bridge Construction,
State of Illinois, Department of Transportation, adopted July 1, 1976, or the
latest revision thereof.
   (C)   General plans for roadway improvements shall be submitted with the
application for a building permit. Building permits shall not be issued until
roadway improvements are complete or a sum of money equal to 125% of the
estimated cost of the street is put into escrow.
   (D)   The line and grade as well as drainage provisions of the proposed
roadway shall be subject to the review of the Village Engineer and the Public
Works Superintendent.
   (E)   When roadway construction is completed, an inspection by the
Superintendent of Public Works and the Engineer shall be requested. The
inspection shall be performed between 20 and 35 days after the date of request.
The purpose of this time lapse is to allow some exposure to weather and
traffic.
      (1)   Any defects noted during the inspection shall be remedied within 30
days after written notice by the Superintendent of Public Works or the Village
Engineer. When the corrective work has been performed to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent of Public Works and the Engineer, the Village Board of
Trustees may grant tentative approval. At this time monies escrowed as security
against road construction will be released. The developer will be required at
the same time to post a corporate surety bond in the amount of 10% of the cost
of roadway construction to guarantee maintenance of the roadway for a period of
one year from the date of tentative acceptance. Cash or a suitable bank letter
of credit may be substituted for the surety bond.
      (2)   When the aforesaid year has lapsed, the Superintendent of Public
Works and the Engineer shall perform a final inspection. Any remaining defects
shall be remedied within 15 days of final inspection. When this corrective work
has been performed, the Village Board shall grant final acceptance and at that
time the surety bond shall be released. Where unusual conditions so warrant,
the Village Board may alter the terms set forth in this section.
   (F)   Where it is intended the sanitary and/or storm sewers and/or water
mains be constructed as part of the complete street improvement, subgrade and
ditches shall be cut in prior to sewer and water main construction.
('79 Code, § 1609(1)) (Ord. 1979-O-16, passed 4-17-79) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.065 APPLICATION OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   Nothing contained herein shall be construed so as to circumvent the
requirements of Chapter 152 Subdivision Regulations.
('79 Code, § 1609(2)) (Ord. 1979-O-16, passed 4-17-89)
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION FOR NEW HOMES
§ 150.085 REQUIREMENTS.
   This section only applies to areas with concrete curbs and gutters.
   (A)   When a person constructs one or more homes in a single block of a
previously platted subdivision, he or she shall construct a concrete sidewalk
across the entire length of that portion of the lot or parcel of real estate on
which the residence or building to be constructed fronts, except that the
person constructing a dwelling on a corner lot shall also be required to
construct a sidewalk the entire length of the lot from the point where the
sidewalk ends at the front of the lot to the rear lot line.
   (B)   General plans for sidewalk construction shall be submitted with the
application for a building permit.
   (C)   Sidewalks constructed shall have a width of no less than five feet and
shall have a minimum thickness of five inches laid on a one-inch sand cushion
in all areas other than driveways. The property edge of the walk is to be
located 12 inches toward the street from the property line and the grade of the
walk shall be subject to the review of the Village Engineer and Public Works
Superintendent. The owner of the property is responsible for any surveys that
may be necessary to locate lot corner markers and for locating the line of the
sidewalk from such lot corner markers. In driveway areas, the thickness shall
be increased to a minimum thickness of seven inches laid on a one-inch sand
cushion.
      (1)   The sidewalk shall have a broom finish and shall be edged on both
sides. Traverse joints shall be struck at five-foot intervals and at every 50-
feet interval, a one-half inch expansion joint shall be placed. Likewise, one-
half inch expansion joint material shall be placed between adjacent structures
which shall include curb, gutter, old driveways, building foundations, old
sidewalk, traffic signals, light poles, and any other man-made structure.
      (2)   The sidewalk shall be cured with a state acceptable curing
compound. After the concrete has cured, all forms shall be removed, the area
disturbed shall be backfilled with black dirt graded to a net cross section
acceptable to the Building Commissioner, and seeded, to leave the area in a
neat and clean condition.
      (3)   Where practical, handicapped ramps should be constructed at all
intersections.
      (4)   All work shall be done in accordance with the applicable portions
of the State Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction adopted on October 1, 1983, and any subsequent revisions
made thereto.
   (D)   When sidewalk construction is complete, an inspection by the Building
Inspector shall be performed. Any defects shall be corrected by the owner
before an occupancy certificate is issued.
   (E)   The owner will be required to post a corporate surety bond in the
amount of 25% of the cost of the sidewalk construction to guarantee maintenance
of the sidewalk for a period of one year from date of acceptance. Cash or a
suitable bank letter of credit may be substituted for the surety bond. When the
aforesaid year has elapsed, the Building Inspector shall perform a final
inspection. Any defects shall be remedied within 15 days from the date on which
the owner is notified by the Building Inspector of the defects. After the
defects, if any, are corrected, the surety bond shall be released.
   (F)   Where unusual conditions so warrant, the Village Board of Trustees may
alter the terms set forth in this section.
('79 Code, § 1611(a) -(f)) (Ord. 1985-O-16, passed 8-6-85; Am. Ord. 1987-O-29,
passed 9-1-87) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.086 EXEMPTIONS.
   R-5 (Rural Subdivisions) shall be deemed exempt from the requirements of §
150.085.
('79 Code, § 1611(g)) (Ord. 1985-O-16, passed 8-6-85; Am. Ord. 1987-O-29,
passed 9-1-87)
SATELLITE ANTENNAS
§ 150.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISH. That part of a satellite signal receiving antenna characteristically
shaped like a saucer or dish.
   DISH-TYPE SATELLITE SIGNAL-RECEIVING ANTENNAS, EARTH-STATIONS, or GROUND
STATIONS. One, or a combination of two or more of the following:
   (A)   A signal-receiving device (antenna, dish antenna, or dish-type
antenna), the purpose of which is to receive communication or other signals
from satellites in earth orbit and other extra-terrestrial sources.
   (B)   A low-noise amplifier (LNA) which is situated at the focal point of
the receiving component and the purpose of which is to magnify, store,
transfer, or transmit electronic or light signals.
   (C)   A coaxial cable, the purpose of which is to carry or transmit said
signals to a receiver.
   GROUNDING ROD. A metal pole permanently positioned in the earth to serve as
an electrical conductor through which electrical current may safely pass and
dissipate.
   RECEIVER. A television set or radio receiver.
('79 Code, § 1612(1) - (4)) (Ord. 1987-O-15, passed 4-7-87)
§ 150.096 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, trust, or other legal entity
shall construct an earth station without a permit, nor shall construction
commence before a permit is issued by the Building Inspector.
('79 Code, § 1612(5)) (Ord. 1987-O-15, passed 4-7-87) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.097 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   The owner, or occupant with written permission from the owner, of any
lot, premises, or parcel of land within the village who desires to construct an
earth station on said lot, premises, or land parcel must first obtain a permit
to do so from the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall issue such permit, provided the
applicant submits a written application, along with a plot plan of the lot,
premises, or land parcel attached showing the exact location and dimensions of
the proposed earth station; a description of the kind of earth station
proposed; and the exact locations and dimensions of all buildings or
structures, showing the elevations of the proposed earth station upon
completion. Each application shall specify among other things the name and
address of the owner of the real estate and the applicant, the name of who
prepared the construction plans and specifications, and the person to be
permitted to construct the proposed earth station.
   (C)   The applicant shall present documentation of the possession of any
license or permit required by any federal, state, or local agency pertaining to
the ownership, construction, or operation of an earth station.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit with each application the sum of $50 which
represents the permit fee. The permit fee shall cover the costs of reviewing
the construction plans and specifications, inspecting the final construction,
and processing the application.
('79 Code, § 1612(6)) (Ord. 1987-O-15, passed 4-7-87)
§ 150.098 GROUND-MOUNTED EARTH STATIONS.
   (A)   No earth station shall be constructed in any front yard, but, shall be
constructed to the rear or side of the residence or main structure.
   (B)   No earth station, including its concrete base slab or other
substructure, shall be constructed less than eight feet from any property line
or easement.
   (C)   No earth station shall be constructed without appropriate landscaping,
a fence, or other shield in order that said earth station can be reasonably
concealed from view; the manner of concealment to be approved by the Building
Commissioner.
   (D)   No earth station shall be linked, physically or electronically, to a
receiver which is not located on the same lot, premises, or parcel of land as
is the earth station.
   (E)   An earth station shall not exceed a great height of 12 feet.
   (F)   All structural supports shall be of galvanized metal.
   (G)   Wiring between an earth station and a receiver shall be placed at
least four inches beneath the surface of the ground within rigid conduit.
   (H)   Such earth station shall be designed to withstand a wind force of 75
miles per hour without the use of supporting guy wires.
   (I)   Any driving motor shall be limited to 110 volt maximum power design
and be encased in protective guards.
   (J)   An earth station must be bonded to a grounding rod.
   (K)   Only one earth station on a lot.
   (1)   Earth stations can only be used for non-commercial use.
('79 Code, § 1612(7)) (Ord. 1987-O-15, passed 4-7-87) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.099 ROOF-MOUNTED EARTH STATIONS.
   (A)   Earth stations shall be mounted directly upon the roof of a primary or
accessory structure, as defined in this chapter and shall not be mounted upon
appurtenances such as chimneys, towers, trees, poles, or spires.
   (B)   An earth station shall not exceed a height of more than three feet
above the roof upon which it is mounted.
   (C)   An earth station dish shall not exceed three feet in diameter.
   (D)   An earth station shall be designed to withstand a wind force of 85
miles per hour without the use of supporting guy wires.
   (E)   Any driving motor shall be limited to 110 volt maximum power design
and be encased in protective guards.
   (F)   An earth station must be bonded to a grounding rod.
('79 Code, § 1612(8)) (Ord. 1987-O-15, passed 4-7-87)
§ 150.100 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions of the Building Commissioner concerning dish-type
satellite antennas shall be made to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
('79 Code, § 1612(9)) (Ord. 1987-O-15, passed 4-7-87)
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS
§ 150.110 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. Any person engaged in the business of installing or
altering by contract, equipment and electricity supplied for light, heat, or
power not including radio apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of
sounds and signals, and not including apparatus, conductors, and other
equipment installed for or by public utilities, including common carriers,
which are under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Commerce Commission for use in
their operation as public utilities; but the term ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR does
not include employees employed by such contractor to supervise such work.
('79 Code, § 1613(1)) (Ord. 1987-O-14, passed 4-7-87)
§ 150.111 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to alter, repair,
or install any electrical equipment in the city without first complying with
this subchapter.
('79 Code, § 1613(2)) (Ord. 1987-O-14, passed 4-7-87) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.112 REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS.
   Any person desiring to engage in the business of electrical contracting
shall apply for registration to the Electrical Inspector stating the name and
the place of business of the applicant and the name of the representative of
the applicant who will act as supervisor of the work to be done under the
registration. Such application shall be accompanied by satisfactory affidavit
that the applicant or the applicant's representative has had at least five
years practical experience installing and altering electrical equipment.
('79 Code, § 1613(3)) (Ord. 1987-O-14, passed 4-7-87) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.113 EXAMINATION PREREQUISITE TO REGISTRATION.
   Before a certificate of registration shall be issued, the applicant or the
applicant's representative shall, following reasonable advance notice, present
himself for examination before the Electrical Inspector at a time and place set
by him. Said Inspector shall examine such applicant as to the applicant's
practical knowledge of the installation and alteration of electrical equipment
and knowledge of the rules and regulations for the installation of electrical
wiring devices and equipment as set forth in this chapter and in the latest
standards issued by the National Board of Fire Underwriters as recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association and approved by the American Standards
Association. Such examination shall be in whole or in part in writing and shall
be of a practical character as determined by the Electrical Inspector but
sufficiently strict to thoroughly test the experience and qualifications of the
applicant.
('79 Code, § 1613(4)) (Ord. 1987-O-14, passed 4-7-87)
§ 150.114 ENTITLE TO CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Any person who shall have filed proper application, and later shall have
satisfactorily passed the examination required under §
150.113, shall be entitled to receive a certificate of registration to do
electrical work and to engage in the business of electrical work and to engage
in the business of electrical contracting in the Village.
('79 Code, § 1613(5)) (Ord. 1987-O-14, passed 4-7-87)
§ 150.115 USE OF INVALID CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   No person granted a certificate of registration under the provisions
of this chapter shall install or repair electrical equipment for electric
light, heat, or power purposes after the expiration of such certificate of
registration or after such certificate shall have been revoked as herein
provided unless the said certificate of registration has been renewed and the
fee paid as provided herein.
   (B)   Certificates of registration issued by the Electrical Inspector shall
not be loaned, rented, assigned, or transferred. Each and every certificate of
registration may, after hearing, be suspended or revoked by the Board of
Trustees upon the recommendation of the Electrical Inspector upon failure or
refusal of the electrical contractor to comply with the rules and requirements
of the Electrical Inspector, or the provisions of this chapter.
('79 Code, § 1613(6)) (Ord. 1987-O-14, passed 4-7-87) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.116 REGISTRATION FEE.
   The annual fee for registering as an electrical contractor shall be $25;
provided that an application made after the expiration of the first six months
of the register year shall be issued upon the payment of a fee of $12.50. The
register year shall correspond with the license year.
('79 Code, § 1613(7)) (Ord. 1987-O-14, passed 4-7-87)
§ 150.117 OUT-OF-TOWN CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Any electrical contractor who is registered as such in any other city
or village in the state shall not be required to pay a fee for being registered
in this village; but every person doing business in this village as an
electrical contractor shall secure a certificate of registration before
commencing of altering, repairing, or installing any electrical work.
   (B)   Such certificate shall be issued without charge to electrical
contractors registered as such under the ordinances of another city or village
in this state.
('79 Code, § 1613(8)) (Ord. 1987-O-14, passed 4-7-87) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.118 OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person registered under the provisions of this
subchapter to install any electrical appliances, wiring, or fixtures without
strict compliance with the ordinances relating to such fixtures. It shall be
unlawful for any such person to do any such work without having obtained such
permits as may be required.
('79 Code, § 1613(9)) (Ord. 1987-O-14, passed 4-7-87) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.119 ELECTRICAL COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Electrical Commission shall be appointed by the President with the
advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Electrical Commission shall:
      (1)   Review the test administered by the Electrical Inspector.
      (2)   Rewrite or alter the test as needed.
      (3)   Set reasonable rules and regulations on the issuance of permits by
the Electrical Inspector.
      (4)   Set reasonable fees to be paid for inspection by the Electrical
Inspector of all electrical equipment installed or altered within the
municipality.
      (5)   Recommend safe and practical standards and specifications for the
installation, alteration, and use of electrical equipment within the
municipality.
      (6)   Any person or contractor denied a permit or certificate of
registration has the right to a hearing before the Electrical Commission which
shall have the power to override the Electrical Inspector.
   (C)   The Electrical Commission shall consist of the following six members:
      (1)   The Electrical Inspector shall be a member and ex officio Chairman
of the Commission.
      (2) A registered professional engineer.
      (3) An electrical contractor.
      (4) A journeyman electrician.
      (5) A representative of an inspection bureau maintained by the Fire
Underwriters. If no such representative resides in the municipality then the
chief of the Fire Department shall take the representative's place.
      (6) A representative of an electrical supply company.
   If there is no person residing in the municipality who is qualified or
willing to serve under any one of these descriptions, the President with the
advice and consent of the Village Board may appoint some other person to fill
that position.
('79 Code, § 1613(10)) (Ord. 1987-O-14, passed 4-7-87)
UNIFORM ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.130 [RESERVED].
§ 150.131 REGULATIONS OF ELECTRICAL UTILITY ADOPTED.
   The rules and regulations regarding the installation, alteration, and use of
electrical equipment as last adopted by the electricity supply company
supplying the village as last published, and filed with the Illinois Commerce
Commission and as approved by the Village Electrical Commission are hereby
adopted.
(Ord. 1989-O-24, passed 7-18-89)
§ 151.132 FILING; INCORPORATION OF CODE AND REGULATIONS.
   A copy of the code and rules and regulations adopted by this subchapter are
on file in the office of the Chief Electrical Inspector and the provisions of
this code and those rules and regulations are hereby made a part of this code.
(Ord. 1989-O-24, passed 7-18-89)
CELL TOWERS
§ 150.150 CELL TOWER PREFERRED PLACEMENT.
   In order to ensure the maximum retention of value of existing and planned
housing, from and after the effective date of this amendatory ordinance, any
and all persons, companies or corporations wishing to site a cellular telephone
tower within the village shall be required to place it first, upon property
zoned “MP,” and if no such property is available or if no available sites are
technologically feasible to install such a tower, the tower shall be installed
on property owned by a school district. If, and only if, no site meeting the
foregoing is available or technologically feasible, the tower may be installed,
in order of preference, upon property zoned Industrial, upon property zoned B-
3, upon property zoned B-2 or upon property B-1. The Zoning Administrator shall
receive and review all such permit applications and approve or deny them based
on the foregoing criteria. The decision of the Zoning Administrator on all such
applications may be appealed to the Village Board.
(Ord. 2002-O-6, passed 2-19-02)
§ 150.151 RESIDENTIAL PLACEMENT OF CELL TOWER REGULATIONS.
   Only where the person, company or corporation wishing to site a tower can
prove to the Planning and Zoning Board and the Village Board by clear and
convincing evidence that no other location is possible, available or
technologically feasible may the tower be sited in any residential
neighborhood. Any such request to site a tower in a residential area shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator and public notice shall be given by the
applicant by certified mail, return receipt requested, to all owners of record
of property located within 500 feet of the boundaries of the proposed site.
Such mailed notice shall be given not less than 30 days nor more than 45 days
prior to the hearing. Notice of the hearing and application shall also be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the village on three
consecutive weeks not less than 14 days prior to the hearing, nor more than 45
days prior thereto. The initial hearing shall be conducted before the Planning
and Zoning Board, who shall take testimony from the applicant and all
interested persons. At the conclusion of the testimony, the Board shall
thereupon take a vote and make a recommendation to the Village Board to approve
or deny the permit based on the evidence presented. The Village Board shall
consider the application within 14 days thereafter, and shall act without
taking further evidence or conducting any further examination of any persons
under oath. Where the Planning and Zoning Board has recommended against the
proposed siting, a three-fifths majority of the Village Board shall be required
to approve the same.
(Ord. 2002-O-6, passed 2-19-02)
§ 150.152 CELL TOWER SITING APPLICATION FEES.
   Any application for the siting of a cellular telephone tower shall be
accompanied by the following fees:
   For any tower proposed for MP zoned property      $100
   For any tower proposed for school district property      +$200
   For any tower proposed in I zoned property         $500
   For any tower proposed in any B zoned district      $10,000
   For any tower proposed in any R zoned district      $20,000
(Ord. 2002-O-6, passed 2-19-02)
BUILDING PLAN STANDARDS
§ 150.160 BUILDING PLAN STANDARDS.
   All plans submitted to the Building Department relative to any existing
permit or permit application shall be:
   (A)   Submitted in triplicate; two paper copies and one electronic copy;
   (B)   In the form of blueprints, bluelines or other readily legible
reproduction;
   (C)   Of a size sufficient to legibly show all details necessary for review;
   (D)   Not larger than 24 inches × 36 inches;
   (E)   On white opaque paper of not less than 20 # weight;
   (F)   Prepared by an Illinois Licensed Design Professional;
   (G)   Accompanied by all required fees and deposits.
   Exception: The Building Official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by an
Illinois Licensed Design Professional if it is found that the nature of the
work applied for is such that reviewing of construction documents is not
necessary to obtain compliance with the code.
(Ord. 2002-O-25, passed 7-2-02; Am. Ord. 2018-O-15, passed 10-16-18)
§ 150.161 REJECTION BY BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
   Any plan which, in the discretion of the Building Department, fails to meet
the standards established in §
150.160 shall be rejected and the applicant advised to resubmit plans
conforming to these standards.
(Ord. 2002-O-25, passed 7-2-02; Am. Ord. 2018-O-15, passed 10-16-18)
§ 150.162 BUILDING DEPARTMENT REVIEW.
   The village Building Department’s plan reviewers shall review all plans
properly submitted in accordance with the then current building codes and
amendments adopted by the village, where appropriate, and in the event the
reviewers determine that the plans submitted fail to meet the standards called
for in these codes, the plan reviewers shall have the discretion to reject the
plans.
(Ord. 2002-O-25, passed 7-2-02; Am. Ord. 2018-O-15, passed 10-16-18)
§ 150.163 RESUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   Any applicant submitting plans that have been rejected previously shall bear
the full expense of any additional plan review, and shall submit an appropriate
deposit at the time the plans are resubmitted.
(Ord. 2002-O-25, passed 7-2-02; Am. Ord. 2018-O-15, passed 10-16-18)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty exists shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day which a violation
continues or exists.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporate violating any provision of §§
150.010 through
150.022 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500 for
such offense, and each day on which the violation continues shall be considered
a separate offense.
('79 Code, § 1606(14))
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
150.035 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
('79 Code, § 1607(5))
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of §§
150.050 through
150.054 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $200 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or is continued.
('79 Code, § 1608(6))
   (E)   All persons, firms, or corporations violating any of the provisions of
§
150.064, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not less than $25 nor more than $200. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
('79 Code, § 1609(3)) (Ord. 1979-O-16, passed 4-17-79)
   (F)   All persons, firms, or corporations violating any of the provisions of
§
150.085 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not less than $25 nor more than $200. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
('79 Code, § 1611(3)) (Ord. 1987-O-12, passed - -87)
   (G)   All persons, firms, or corporations violating any of the provisions of
§§
150.095 through
150.100 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not less than $25 nor more than $200. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
('79 Code, § 1612(10)) (Ord. 1987-O-15, passed 4-7-87)
   (H)   Any willful failure or refusal to comply with §§
150.110 through
150.119 constitutes a petty offense punishable upon conviction by a fine of not
less than $25 nor more than $50 for each offense.
   (I)   Nothing in this section or chapter may be construed to impose any fine
or penalty, nor to impose regulations of any kind, nor to stand for the
proposition that the village has the power to enforce regulations against
licensed plumbers or plumbing contractors, since state law grants exclusive
powers in these areas to the Illinois Department of Public Health. Accordingly,
all alleged violations of the Illinois Plumbing Code will be referred to the
Illinois Department of Public Health, consistent with the requirements of the
Plumbing Licensing Law (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 320).
('79 Code, § 1613(11)) (Ord. 1987-O-14, passed 4-7-87; Am. Ord. 2015-O-19,
passed 8-18-15)
APPENDIX: FORMS AND DIAGRAMS
Section
   1. Roadway cross section
§ 1 ROADWAY CROSS SECTION.
   The roadway cross section referred to in §
150.064(B)) is as follows:
('79 Code, § 1609(1)) (Ord. 1979-O-16, passed 4-17-79)
CHAPTER 151: HOUSING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Scope
   
151.004   Effective date
   
151.005   Conflict of ordinances
   
151.006   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.015   Administration
   
151.016   Interpretations, rulings, and orders
   
151.017   Rules and regulations
   
151.018   Buildings of mixed occupancy uses
   
151.019   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.020   Construction
   
151.021   Issuance of building permits
   
151.022   Inspection
   
151.023   Building violations
   
151.024   Notice of violation
   
151.025   Condemned and placarded property; notice
   
151.026   Emergency orders
   
151.027   Vacating of premises
   
151.028   Removal of condemnation placard
   
151.029   Vacant structures
   
151.030   Demolition of structures
   
151.031   Appeals
Owner and Occupant Responsibilities
   
151.040   Burden of responsibility; compliance with provisions required
   
151.041   Public areas
   
151.042   Occupant's responsibility
   
151.043   Rubbish and garbage disposal
   
151.044   Rodent and insect control
   
151.045   Plumbing
   
151.046   Equipment and appliances
   
151.047   Weed control
   
151.048   Snow removal
Structural Requirements and Maintenance
   
151.060   Compliance with provisions required
   
151.061   Plumbing; electric wiring; heating; equipment
   
151.062   Foundation; floors; roof
   
151.063   Windows and doors
   
151.064   Screens
   
151.065   Stairs and porches
   
151.066   Bathrooms and water closet compartments
   
151.067   Storage
   
151.068   Disruption of utility services
Means of Egress
   
151.080   Unobstructed means of egress
   
151.081   Required means of egress
   
151.082   Halls or corridors
   
151.083   Required widths
   
151.084   Outside balconies and stairs
   
151.085   Passage through other units
Area, Space, and Use
   
151.090   Compliance with provisions; computation
   
151.091   Floor areas
   
151.092   Ceiling heights
   
151.093   Room widths
   
151.094   Access to rooms
   
151.095   Cellar area
   
151.096   Basement area
Light and Ventilation
   
151.105   Minimum requirements
   
151.106   Required window area
   
151.107   Mechanical ventilation and lighting
   
151.108   Halls and stairway lighting
Plumbing, Water, and Sanitation Facilities
   
151.120   Compliance with provisions required
   
151.121   Sewer and water
   
151.122   Kitchen sink
   
151.123   Bathroom
   
151.124   Hot water system
Heating Equipment and Facilities
   
151.130   Heating facilities required
   
151.131   Portable heaters
   
151.132   Vents, chimneys, and smoke pipes
   
151.133   Central heating systems
   
151.134   Space heaters
   
151.135   Safety valves
   
151.136   Hot water heaters
   
151.137   Incinerators
Electric Wiring and Facilities
   
151.145   Compliance with provisions; connection required
   
151.146   Maintenance
   
151.147   Appliances
   
151.148   Convenience outlets
   
151.149   Overloads
Gas Facilities
   
151.160   Connections with gas lines
   
151.161   Gas piping
   
151.162   Gas pressure
   
151.163   LP or bottled gas
Rooming Houses
   
151.170   Application of provisions
   
151.171   Operator's responsibility
   
151.172   Rooming houses; hotels; motels
   
151.173   Rooming house permit
   
151.174   Application for permit
   
151.175   Permit fee
   
151.176   Revocation of permit
   
151.177   Appeal of rejection or revocation
   
151.178   Means of egress
   
151.179   Floor area
   
151.180   Light and ventilation
   
151.181   Plumbing, water, and sanitation facilities
   
151.182   Heating
   
151.183   Lighting
   
151.184   Cooking equipment
   
151.185   Bedding and towels only
   
151.186   Rubbish and garbage disposal
Aesthetic Standards
   
151.200   Anti-monotony standards
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   The provisions contained within the following sections of this chapter shall
be known as the "Housing Code of the Village of Winthrop Harbor, Lake County,
Illinois" and may be cited as such and will be referred to herein as "this
code".
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide safeguards to life or limb, public
health, safety, and welfare of occupants of buildings or structures used in
whole or in part for human habitation by providing minimum standards regulating
building maintenance, area, light and ventilation, sanitation, and fire safety.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.003 SCOPE.
   (A)   Provisions and regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to
buildings and structures, or portions thereof, used for residential occupancies
or human habitation, and all accessory buildings and structures thereto,
located within the corporate limits of the village, and shall include
dwellings, multi- family dwellings, apartments, and buildings and structures
used as hotels, motels, tourist homes, rooming and boarding houses, rest and
nursing homes, dormitories, club houses and any other facility where space is
provided for living or sleeping of three or more persons not related to the
owner or operator, and such buildings of residential or dwelling occupancy may
be referred to herein as the building, structure, or premises.
   (B)   Owner occupied single-family dwellings and buildings of two-family
dwellings shall be exempt from provisions of this chapter when a valid and
current certificate of occupancy has been issued and is effective on the
building or structure and all additions or appurtenances thereto, except;
complaint and determination of the maintenance of a hazard or nuisance in
violation of provisions of this chapter shall constitute cause to invoke
provisions of this chapter on owner occupied single-family dwellings or
buildings of two-family dwellings.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter shall become effective January 19, 1965.
   (B)   No provision of this chapter shall be held to deprive any governmental
authority, or department thereof having jurisdiction, of any power or authority
it held on January 19, 1965 or of any remedy then existing for the enforcement
of its orders, nor shall it deprive any individual or corporation of its legal
rights as provided by law.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.005 CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES.
   In event a provision of this chapter is in conflict with a provision of the
zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinances as applicable to the
health, safety, and welfare of occupants, the more restrictive provisions shall
apply.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building which use is incidental to that of the main
building and which is located upon the same lot.
   ACCESSORY USE. An occupancy use incidental to the principal use of a
building as defined or limited by provisions of the zoning chapter.
   ADDITION. An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or
structure.
   ALTERATIONS. A change or rearrangement in the structural parts or exit
facilities of a building or structure, or an enlargement by extending the
exterior walls or by increasing the height, or by moving from one location or
position to another.
   APARTMENT. One or more rooms comprising a dwelling unit or serving as the
home or residence of an individual, or a family or household.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A building or structure containing more than two
dwelling units or apartments.
   APPROVED. The approval of the Building Official or other authority having
jurisdiction.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A device or structure attached to the exterior or
erected on the roof of a building.
   ATTIC. The space between the ceiling joists of the top habitable story and
the roof rafters.
   BALCONY, EXTERIOR. An appurtenance to a structure supported on the
structural members of the building extending beyond the main walls of the
building more than four feet above grade.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building partly underground, and having more
than one-half of its clear height above the average grade of the adjoining
ground.
   BUILDING. A structure enclosed within exterior walls built, erected, and
framed of component structural parts and designed for the housing, shelter,
enclosure, and support of individuals, animals, or property of any kind.
   BUILDING CODE. The regulations and amendments thereto regulating building
construction within the village, and includes the plumbing code, electrical
code, heating code, and amendments thereto.
   BUILDING LINE. The line or limits established by law beyond which the
building or structure shall not extend.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority charged with
enforcement of this chapter.
   CELLAR. That portion of a building wholly or partly underground and having
one-half or more
of its clear height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. The certificate issued by the building official
which permits the use of a building or structure in accordance with approved
plans and specifications and which certified compliance with provisions of law
for the use and occupancy of the building in its several parts together with
any special stipulations or conditions of the building permit.
   CHANGE OF USE. An alteration by change of use or occupancy of a building
heretofore existing to a new use group which imposes other special provisions
of law governing building construction, equipment, or exits.
   CORRIDOR. An enclosed passageway leading to a means of legal egress.
   DORMITORY. A building arranged for lodging individuals and having common
toilet and bathroom facilities.
   DUPLEX. A building containing two dwelling units located on a single level
and completely separated by a party wall or located on separate floors with
complete separation.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building containing one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing two dwelling units completely
separated by a party wall or floor and ceiling and containing separate toilet,
bathing, and cooking facilities.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms arranged for use of one or more individuals
living together as a family, with cooking, living, sanitary, and sleeping
facilities.
   ELECTRICAL CODE. The regulations and amendments thereto regulating the
installations of electrical equipment, appliances, wiring, and power in
buildings.
   ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. The official or other designated authority charged
with the enforcement of provisions of the electrical code.
   ELECTRICAL SERVICE EQUIPMENT. The equipment located at a point of entrance
of supply conductors to a building which constitutes the main control of supply
and cut-off of electricity and including circuit breakers, switches, fuses,
wiring, and electrical accessories.
   EXIT. A continuous and unobstructed means of egress to a public way, and
shall include intervening doorways, corridors, ramps, stairways, smokeproof
towers, horizontal exits, exterior courts, and yards.
   EXTERMINATION. The process of ridding the premises or building of insects or
rodents.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood or marriage, or not more than
three persons not related by blood or marriage, living together as a single
housekeeping unit.
   FIRE CHIEF. The official or other designated authority charged with
enforcement of fire prevention and safety regulations and ordinances.
   FLOOR AREA. The area included within surrounding walls of a building or
portion thereof exclusive of vent shafts and courts.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   GUEST. Any person hiring or occupying a room for living or sleeping
purposes.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The official or other designated authority charged with
enforcement of health regulations and ordinances.
   HEATING INSPECTOR. The official or other designated authority charged with
enforcement or ordinances regulating the installation and operation of heating
equipment in building.
   HOTEL. Any building containing six or more rooms and intended or designed to
be used, rented, or hired out to be occupied by guests for sleeping purposes.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling or dwelling unit of
insects, rodents, or other pests.
   LOT. A portion or parcel of land considered as a unit.
   LOT LINE. The line dividing one lot from another, or from the street or
other public space.
   MIXED OCCUPANCY USES. The use of a building structure or premises thereof by
more than one distinct occupancy classification.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any building containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building is used or intended to be used,
and a change of occupancy is not intended to include change of tenants or
proprietors.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building or part
thereof in which dwelling or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall have
legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or without accompanying
actual possession thereof; or, shall have charge, care, or control of any
dwelling or dwelling unit as owner, as agent of the owner, or as executor,
administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner.
   PLUMBING. Includes, but shall not be limited to, gas pipes, gas-burning
equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water closets,
sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed
clothes-washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and similar fixtures,
septic tanks and water wells, and all connections to water, sewer, and gas
lines.
   PLUMBING INSPECTOR. The official or other designated authority charged with
enforcement of ordinances regulating plumbing.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or portion thereof, containing one or more
rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or more
persons not related by blood or marriage to the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or enclosure or group of rooms forming a single
habitable unit used or intended to be used for living or sleeping.
   RUBBISH. Combustible or non-combustible waste materials and shall include
ashes and discarded papers, wood, metals, glass, or tree limbs among others.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by or under control of the owner
or operator.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.015 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all provisions and regulations contained in this chapter within the
corporate limits of the village, and for such purposes shall have the powers of
a police officer.
   (B)   Where jurisdiction exists or is established by provisions of this
chapter, the Fire Chief, Health Officer, or other designated official as
defined herein shall enforce all provisions of this chapter as applicable
jointly with the Building Official.
('79 Code, § 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.016 INTERPRETATIONS, RULINGS, AND ORDERS.
   Interpretation of provisions of this chapter and rulings or orders under its
provisions shall be made and issued by the Building Official. Any person
affected may appeal such interpretation, ruling, or order as provided herein.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.017 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized to make and adopt such rules and
regulations subject to approval of the Village Board of Trustees as are deemed
necessary for proper enforcement of this chapter.
('79 Code, § 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.018 BUILDINGS OF MIXED OCCUPANCY USES.
   Buildings or structures of mixed occupancy uses containing dwelling units
shall for purposes of administration of this chapter be classified as multi-
family dwellings.
('79 Code, § 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.019 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No building or structure of dwelling occupancy shall be occupied unless a
current and valid certificate of occupancy is effective as provided by the
building code, and in all buildings or structures other than one- and two-
family dwellings the certificate of occupancy shall be retained at all times
upon the premises.
('79 Code, § 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.020 CONSTRUCTION.
   All construction of buildings or structures and additions, alterations, and
repairs thereto and the installation of equipment and appliances therein
required for conformance to the provisions of this chapter shall conform to
provisions of the building code and other applicable ordinances and regulations
of the village, and all required permits and fees shall be obtained and paid.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.021 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   The Building Official, Plumbing Inspector, Electrical Inspector, or Heating
Inspector shall not issue a permit for the erection, construction, or
alteration of any building or installation of appliances or equipment therein,
which is used or intended to be used for a dwelling unit, unless the building
or installations therein are designed to conform to provisions of this chapter
and provisions of the zoning chapter, building code, and other applicable
ordinances.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.022 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Building Official shall inspect all buildings or dwelling
occupancy, except one- or two-family dwelling units, and the premises thereof,
not less than once each year.
   (B)   The Building Official or other designated official as provided by this
chapter, may for purposes of this chapter enter, inspect, examine, and survey
at all reasonable times such buildings, structures, and premises subject to
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The owner or occupant of buildings, structures, and premises or
portions thereof, subject to provisions of this chapter, or the person in
charge thereof, shall give the Building Official free access to all portions of
the building, structure, or premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection, examination, or survey.
   (D)   Upon reasonable assumption that the building, structure, or premises
constitute an immediate hazard or emergency to life, safety, or health of the
occupants or community the Building Official is hereby granted authority to
enter said building, structure, or premises at any and all times for purposes
of inspection, examination, and survey.
   (E)   Each occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or the owner's agent or employee, access to all portions of the
dwelling or dwelling unit, or its premises at all reasonable times for purposes
of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with provisions of this chapter or with any rule, regulation, or
order issued pursuant to provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.023 BUILDING VIOLATIONS.
   Upon determination that a building, structure, or premises is in violation
of this chapter or of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the
Building Official shall issue a written notice of violation, said notice to
include the following:
   (A)   Detailed specification of violations;
   (B)   Date by which the violations as set forth in division (A) must be
corrected; and
   (C)   Date of issuance of notice and time within which a request for an
appeals hearing may be filed.
('79 Code, § 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.024 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Notice of violation shall be served in the following manner:
   (A)   By serving copies thereof upon the owner and occupant of the building,
structure, or premises personally, or by sending copies of notice by certified
mail to the said owner and occupant. A lessee shall be considered to be an
occupant for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Where, upon diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the owner
or owners of any such building, structure, or premises is not ascertainable,
notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name such real estate was last
assessed is sufficient notice under this section.
   (C)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act required to
affect compliance with provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Contain a brief outline of remedial action to effect compliance with
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.025 CONDEMNED AND PLACARDED PROPERTY; NOTICE.
   (A)   When the Building Official or other enforcement official as designated
herein determines that a building, structure, or premises are so damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, or vermin-infested that it creates a serious
and immediate hazard to the health or safety of the occupants or public or
community, the Building Official shall condemn and placard said dwelling,
dwelling unit, or structure and issue an emergency order as set forth in §
151.026.
   (B)   Prior notice under this section shall not be required. Within 24 hours
after such dwelling or structure is placarded, a copy of the emergency order
shall be served in the manner set forth in §
151.024 and the owner or occupant shall be entitled to a hearing before the
Appeals Board not later than three days after the date on which the owner or
occupant serves the Building Official with a written request for same.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.026 EMERGENCY ORDERS.
   When the Building Official finds an emergency exists which requires
immediate corrective action to safety and public health, the Building Official
may without notice or hearing issued an order reciting the facts which
constitute the emergency and requiring such action be taken as the Building
Official deems necessary to meet the emergency; the order shall be effective
upon service, and the person to whom the order is directed shall comply
immediately.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.027 VACATING OF PREMISES.
   (A)   The occupants of any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned and placarded
as dangerous or unfit for human habitation shall vacate the dwelling or
dwelling unit within a reasonable time as ordered by the Building Official.
   (B)   When in the judgment of the Building Official an emergency exists
which constitutes an immediate hazard to occupants, the Building Official may
order the immediate vacating of the premises, and any person failing to comply
with the order shall be held in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned as dangerous or
unfit for human habitation shall be used for human habitation until corrective
measures to elimination of the basis of the condemnation action have been
completed and written approval of the Building Official obtained, and the
placard removed from the premises by the Building Official.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.028 REMOVAL OF CONDEMNATION PLACARD.
   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or dwelling
unit condemned as dangerous or unfit for human habitation except, upon written
approval of the Building Official.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.029 VACANT STRUCTURES.
   Any dwelling or dwelling unit vacated by order of the Building Official and
vacant for more than 20 days shall have its doors and windows effectively
locked and boarded to prevent entry.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.030 DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES.
   The Building Official may certify any dwelling or dwelling unit which has
been condemned and placarded to the Building and Zoning Committee of the Board
of Trustees to be demolished in accordance with provisions of the Building Code
for unsafe buildings.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.031 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by a notice of violation, interpretation, ruling,
or order issued under provisions of this chapter may file a written request for
a hearing before the Board of Appeals under procedures of the Board of Appeals,
and said request shall include a brief statement of the basis for appeal
action.
   (B)   If no request for a hearing before the Board of Appeals is filed
within 15 days of date of notice of violation, the notice of violation shall
constitute a final determination that a violation exists and a final order to
corrective action described in the notice.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
OWNER AND OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 151.040 BURDEN OF RESPONSIBILITY; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The responsibility for maintaining buildings or structures of dwelling
occupancy, appurtenances and accessory structures, and premises and lands
thereto, in a clean, safe, sanitary, and healthful condition and repair at all
times to conform to provisions of this chapter shall be shared jointly by the
owner and occupants as defined herein and as provided in this section, except,
for purposes of administration and enforcement of this chapter, the owner shall
be held responsible and liable for any violations thereof and penalties
assessed under provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner, or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating therein, which does not comply with provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.041 PUBLIC AREAS.
   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall
maintain in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or public areas of the
dwelling and premises thereof.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.042 OCCUPANT'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Every occupancy of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean and
sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and premises
thereof which the occupant occupies and controls.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.043 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all
rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the rubbish disposal
facilities or rubbish containers.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all
garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for rodents, in a
clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in garbage disposal facilities or
garbage containers.
   (C)   The owner shall supply such garbage facilities or containers for all
dwelling units in a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units and shall
provide for removal of same. In all other cases the occupant shall supply such
facilities or containers and removal.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.044 RODENT AND INSECT CONTROL.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
exterminate any insect, rodent, or other pests therein or on the premises; and
every occupant of a dwelling unit in a building containing two or more dwelling
units shall be responsible for such extermination wherever the occupant's
dwelling unit is the only one infested.
   (B)   When infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a
dwelling in a rodent-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination
and prevention of further infestation shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (C)   Termite extermination shall be the sole responsibility of the owner.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.045 PLUMBING.
   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures therein
in a clean and sanitary condition and shall exercise reasonable care in the
proper use and operation thereof.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.046 EQUIPMENT AND APPLIANCES.
   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall maintain reasonable care in the
operation and maintenance of such heating equipment, electrical fixtures,
appliances, and other equipment or appliances supplied by the owner.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.047 WEED CONTROL.
   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for weed control on
all portions of the premises the occupant controls and the owner shall be
responsible for all other portions of the premises.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.048 SNOW REMOVAL.
   Snow shall be removed from all areas of the premises used by the public and
the occupant shall be responsible for portions of the premises the occupant
controls and the owner shall be responsible for all other portions of the
premises.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS AND MAINTENANCE
§ 151.060 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No dwelling unit or building of dwelling occupancy shall hereafter be
constructed, created, altered, or reconstructed which does not comply with
provisions of this chapter, and no dwelling unit shall be altered in its space,
area, use, or arrangement in a manner which shall decrease its compliance with
provisions of this section and this chapter.
   (B)   All structural alterations or additions to existing buildings shall
comply with provisions of the building code as applies to new construction.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.061 PLUMBING; ELECTRIC WIRING; HEATING; EQUIPMENT.
   All plumbing, electric wiring, heating equipment, and other facilities,
utilities, and appliances or equipment which is required under provisions of
this chapter shall be constructed and installed in conformance with applicable
ordinances and to function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in
satisfactory working condition.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.062 FOUNDATION; FLOORS; ROOF.
   Every foundation, floor, wall ceiling, and roof shall be reasonably
weathertight, watertight, and rodent-proof; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be kept in good repair.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.063 WINDOWS AND DOORS.
   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weathertight, watertight, rodent-proof, and insect-proof, and shall be kept in
sound working condition and good repair.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.064 SCREENS.
   (A)   Every basement or cellar window which is openable shall be supplied
with a heavy wire screen or hardware cloth of not less than four mesh per inch
fitted tightly and securely fastened to
the frame, or such other material providing equivalent protection against entry
of rodents.
   (B)   From April 15th to November 15th of each year every window and every
door of a dwelling unit opening directly to the exterior or other openings used
for ventilation and opening directly to the exterior of the building shall be
supplied with a screen of not less than 16 mesh per inch and every such door
shall be equipped with a spring or self-closing device maintained in good
working condition.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.065 STAIRS AND PORCHES.
   Every inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance thereto
shall be constructed to be safe to use, and shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair to support any load that normal use may place thereon.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.066 BATHROOMS AND WATER CLOSET COMPARTMENTS.
   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor surface
shall be constructed as required by the building code and maintained so as to
be reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily
kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.067 STORAGE.
   (A)   Storage of combustible materials under stairways or in halls or
corridors, or an accumulation of rubbish upon the premises shall not be
permitted.
   (B)   Storage of explosives or inflammable liquids on the premises shall not
be permitted.
   (C)   Paints, lacquers, or finishes shall not be stored in quantity in
excess of current maintenance requirements and shall be in sealed containers
and stored in an enclosed cabinet or area.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.068 DISRUPTION OF UTILITY SERVICES.
   Services, facilities, equipment, or utilities required under provisions of
this chapter shall not be removed from, shut off, or discontinued from any
occupied dwelling unit, except:
   (A)   For such temporary interruption as may be necessary while repair or
alterations are in process.
   (B)   During temporary emergency when discontinuance of service is ordered
by an authorized official.
   (C)   When service is discontinued for cause by a public utility or
municipal service, and the Building Official notified.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
MEANS OF EGRESS
§ 151.080 UNOBSTRUCTED MEANS OF EGRESS.
   Required means of egress to the exterior from each dwelling unit shall be
unobstructed and shall lead directly to the exterior at ground level and upon a
safe and open space leading directly to the street or yard or shall open upon a
hall, corridor, or public area of the building as provided herein, with direct
access to the exterior of the building at ground level.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.081 REQUIRED MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   Every building of single-family dwelling occupancy shall have not less
than one means of egress to the exterior, except such buildings of more than
600 square feet of floor area and more than two stories in height shall have
not less than two means of egress to the exterior, each accessible to all areas
and portions of the building.
   (B)   Every building of two or more dwelling units located above or below
the ground floor shall have not less than two means of egress to the exterior
and each shall be directly accessible to all areas and portions of the
building.
   (C)   Windows shall not be considered as required means of egress.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.082 HALLS OR CORRIDORS.
   Halls and corridors of buildings of multi-family occupancy above or below
the ground floor serving as means of egress shall lead directly to a stairway
leading to a means of egress to the exterior at ground level and such halls or
corridors shall contain no dead ends extending more than ten feet beyond a
stairway leading to the ground floor.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.083 REQUIRED WIDTHS.
   Required widths of halls, corridors, stairs, and doors serving as a required
means of egress shall be not less than 30 inches in clear widths and the
required widths shall be calculated from the occupant capacities of all areas
of the building as provided by the building code.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.084 OUTSIDE BALCONIES AND STAIRS.
   Outside balconies or stairs of required widths may be used for required
means of egress subject to approval of the Building Official except such
balconies shall have no dead ends beyond a stairway leading to the ground of
more than ten feet.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.085 PASSAGE THROUGH OTHER UNITS.
   Required means of egress from a dwelling unit shall be had without passing
through any portion of another dwelling unit.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
AREA, SPACE, AND USE
§ 151.090 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; COMPUTATION.
   Minimum floor area, sizes, and ceiling heights of dwelling units shall not
be less than provided in this subchapter, and floor areas shall be calculated
to include habitable rooms, bathrooms, water-closet compartments, pantries,
foyers, communicating corridors and closets, except the floor area of any
portion of a room with a ceiling height of less than five feet shall not be
calculated in computing floor areas.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.091 FLOOR AREAS.
   No dwelling unit shall contain less than 1,000 square feet of floor area,
except efficiency-type dwelling units of motel, hotel, or multi-family
structures shall contain not less than 300 square feet of floor area per unit
and an additional 100 square feet of floor area per unit for each occupant over
two.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.092 CEILING HEIGHTS.
   A habitable room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet six
inches, except, where there is a sloping ceiling not more than one-third of the
computed floor area shall have a ceiling height of less than seven feet.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.093 ROOM WIDTHS.
   A habitable room, except the kitchen, shall not be less than seven feet in
width in at least 90% of the area of the room.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.094 ACCESS TO ROOMS.
   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two or more sleeping rooms shall
have such room arrangements that access to a bathroom or water closet
compartment intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be
had only by passing through another sleeping room; nor shall room arrangements
be such that access to a sleeping room can be had only by passing through
another sleeping room or through a bathroom or water closet compartment; nor
shall a water closet compartment open directly into kitchens or rooms for the
preparation of food.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.095 CELLAR AREA.
   Cellar space shall not be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit, except,
cellar space may be used as a recreation room or workroom when it complies with
provisions of §
151.096(A) and has adequate lighting, ventilation, and means of egress and is
approved by the Building Officer.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.096 BASEMENT AREA.
   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit unless
approved by the Building Official subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness.
   (B)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least minimum
window area sizes as required in §
151.106 of this chapter.
   (C)   The required minimum window area is located entirely above the grade
of the ground adjoining the window area.
   (D)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the minimum as required under §
151.106 of this chapter, except where there is supplied some other device
affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Building Official.
   (E)   The room or unit, and access thereto, are protected and separated from
any adjacent heating, incinerating or other hazardous facilities. Basement
space may, however, be used as a recreation room or workroom where it complies
with requirements in this section, and has adequate lighting, ventilation, and
means of egress as approved by the Building Official.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
LIGHT AND VENTILATION
§ 151.105 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   Every habitable room shall have not less than one window or skylight facing
upon a street, yard,
or other open space as defined by the zoning ordinance and any alcove opening
off a habitable room may be included as part of the room in calculating
required window area if 80% of the common wall area provides an unobstructed
opening to the alcove.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.106 REQUIRED WINDOW AREA.
   (A)   The minimum total window area of any habitable room shall be not less
than 10% of the floor area of the room measured in areas of clear glass and not
less than 50% of required window area shall be easily opened for ventilation.
   (B)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Whenever a window of a room faces a wall or other portion of any
abutting structure which is located less than three feet from the window and
extends to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, the window shall not
be counted in calculating window area or openable area.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.107 MECHANICAL VENTILATION AND LIGHTING.
   Artificial lighting and mechanical ventilation of a capacity conforming to
provisions of the building code may be substituted for window areas subject to
approval of the Building Official.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.108 HALLS AND STAIRWAY LIGHTING.
   Every public hall and stairway in a multiple dwelling containing five or
more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted at all times. Every public hall
and stairway in a multiple dwelling containing not more than four dwelling
units shall have conveniently located switches controlling an adequate lighting
system which may be turned on when needed.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
PLUMBING, WATER, AND SANITATION FACILITIES
§ 151.120 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each dwelling unit shall contain plumbing, water, and sanitation
equipment and facilities conforming to the provisions of this section and to
provisions of the building and plumbing codes.
   (B)   All plumbing shall be properly installed and maintained in good
sanitary working condition, free from defects, leaks, and obstructions.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.121 SEWER AND WATER.
   (A)   Every building or structure of dwelling occupancy and each dwelling
unit therein shall be connected to a sewer and water system.
   (B)   A public storm/sanitary sewer and/or water system shall be deemed
available when a public storm/sanitary sewer and/or water system is in a place
within any street, alley, right-of-way, or easement that adjoins or abuts the
premises on which the building or structure of a dwelling, business
establishment or other building used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation or business is now located or will be located, or when the
improvement to be served is located within a reasonable distance of a public
sewer and/or water system to which a connection is practical and is permitted
by the controlling authority for the sewer or water system. A reasonable
distance for the purposes of this provision shall be deemed to be not greater
than 400 feet (excluding the crossing of any street, alley, right-of-way or
easement) from such public sewer or water system. All costs of such connections
shall be paid by the owner and such connections shall comply with standards
established by the village and all ordinances and regulations thereof.
   (C)   Whenever it shall be required to extend any currently in place storm
or sanitary sewer or water main of the current village system the course
(direction) of said extension shall be determined by the Superintendent of
Public Works and submitted to the Board of Trustees for final acceptance and
approval, thereby providing the means towards an efficient, comprehensive
system.
   (D)   Where public sewer and/or water systems are not available substitute
systems may be used subject to required standards and approval of the Building
Official and County Health Department.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65; Am. Ord. 1989-O-34, passed 8-15-89)
§ 151.122 KITCHEN SINK.
   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink properly connected to the
water and sewer system.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.123 BATHROOM.
   Every dwelling unit shall contain, within a room or rooms that afford
privacy, a flush water closet, a lavatory basin, and a bathtub or shower, and
all such equipment shall be properly connected to the water and sewer system.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.124 HOT WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall have water-heating facilities capable of
heating water to such a temperature at all times as to permit an adequate
supply of water to be drawn at all required taps at a temperature of not less
than 120° F. and all required kitchen sinks, lavatories, bathtubs and showers,
and laundry tubs shall be connected to such water-heating facilities.
   (B)   Buildings and structures of more than a single dwelling unit may have
a central water-heating system.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
HEATING EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES
§ 151.130 HEATING FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every building or structure of dwelling occupancy shall have heating
facilities maintained in safe and good workable condition and capable of
adequately and safely heating all habitable areas of every dwelling unit
therein, including halls and public rooms to a temperature of not less than 70°
F., at a height of three feet above the floor levels when the outdoor
temperature is at -10° F.
   (B)   A central heating system, space heaters, or individual heating system
for each dwelling unit may be used, subject to approval of the Building
Official.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.131 PORTABLE HEATERS.
   Portable heating equipment burning solid, liquid, or gaseous fuels and
employing a flame for combustion shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.132 VENTS, CHIMNEYS, AND SMOKE PIPES.
   (A)   Every heating system burning solid, liquid, or gaseous fuels shall be
properly vented to a chimney or gas vent leading to the outdoor space.
   (B)   Every smoke pipe, chimney, or vent shall be adequately supported,
shall be reasonably clean, and shall be maintained in a condition so that there
will be no leakage or back-up of noxious gases.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.133 CENTRAL HEATING SYSTEMS.
   When a building of dwelling occupancy or a dwelling unit is heated by
central heating unit:
   (A)   Every heat duct steam pipe or hot water pipe shall be free of leaks
and shall function so that adequate heat is delivered to every area of the
building.
   (B)   Every seal between sections of hot air furnaces shall be maintained in
good repair.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.134 SPACE HEATERS.
   When dwelling units are heated by space heaters:
   (A)   Every smoke pipe or vent pipe shall be equipped with guards of metal
or other nonflammable material at the point where the pipe or vent goes through
walls, ceilings, or partitions.
   (B)   Required and sufficient clearance shall be allowed from all
combustible materials and structural elements.
   (C)   Every coal burning space heater shall have a fire-resistant panel
beneath it.
   (D)   Space heaters located in confined areas shall be equipped with air
intake vents of sufficient capacity to support combustion.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.135 SAFETY VALVES.
   Steam and hot water heating systems shall be equipped with approved safety
valves.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.136 HOT WATER HEATERS.
   Hot water heating facilities shall be installed as required by this chapter
and the building and plumbing codes and shall be maintained in a safe and good
working condition at all times and shall be equipped with an approved type
pressure valve.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.137 INCINERATORS.
   Incinerators when installed in buildings of dwelling occupancy or in
dwelling units shall be subject to approval of the Building Official and shall
be installed as provided herein for solid fuel heaters, shall be vented to a
chimney or approved type vent, and shall be located with adequate and safe
clearances to combustible materials or structural elements.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
ELECTRIC WIRING AND FACILITIES
§ 151.145 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All electrical wiring and equipment shall be installed and maintained
as provided by this chapter and by provisions of the building and electrical
codes.
   (B)   Every building or structure of dwelling occupancy located within 300
feet of an electric utility line shall be connected to such utility service.
   (C)   Buildings or structures inaccessible to an electric utility line or
service may use substitute systems for lighting and power subject to approval
of the Building Official.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.146 MAINTENANCE.
   Electrical systems shall be maintained in a safe and good working condition
and:
   (A)   All exposed electrical wire shall have insulation which is in good
condition.
   (B)   Every fixture and outlet shall function properly and shall be securely
fastened in place.
   (C)   Every switch plate and outlet plate shall be securely fastened in
place.
   (D)   Short circuits or breaks shall not exist in any electric line.
   (E)   No obvious shock hazard shall exist.
   (F)   No temporary wiring shall be used.
   (G)   Extension cords shall run directly from portable electric fixtures to
convenience outlets and shall not be placed underneath floor covering material
or extend through doorways, transoms, or other similar apertures through
structural elements.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.147 APPLIANCES.
   Electrical appliances shall be installed and maintained as provided by the
provisions of this chapter and by provisions of the building and electrical
codes and in conformance with recommendations and specifications of the
manufacturer.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.148 CONVENIENCE OUTLETS.
   Every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be provided with electric convenience
outlets or ceiling fixtures that meet requirements of the building and
electrical codes as to number, location, and installation.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.149 OVERLOADS.
   Electrical circuits shall not be overloaded as a result of connecting
appliances which operate at high wattages to outlets supplied with wire of
inadequate size.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
GAS FACILITIES
§ 151.160 CONNECTIONS WITH GAS LINES.
   All gas-burning furnaces, hot water heaters, appliances, and equipment shall
be connected to a gas line with solid metal piping and where required shall be
vented to a chimney or approved type gas vent.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.161 GAS PIPING.
   Every gas pipe shall be sound and tightly put together without leaks and
shall not be corroded or obstructed as to reduce gas pressure or volume.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.162 GAS PRESSURE.
   Gas pressure shall be adequate to permit proper flow of gas from all open
gas valves at all times.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.163 LP OR BOTTLED GAS.
   Storage facilities, tanks, or containers for LP or bottled gases shall be
located outside the building or structure and shall be equipped with an
approved type relief valve, shall be maintained in good condition free of rust
or corrosion at all times, and all connections thereto shall be free of leaks.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
ROOMING HOUSES
§ 151.170 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Provisions of this chapter applying to maintenance, area, light,
ventilation, sanitation, and means of egress shall apply to rooming houses and
other occupancies specified in this subchapter in addition to provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Provisions of this subchapter shall apply to rooming houses, hotels,
motels, tourist homes, and rest or nursing homes and shall apply to club
houses, dormitories, or any other facility in which space is provided for
living and sleeping to three or more persons not related to the owner or
operator.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.171 OPERATOR'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The operator of a rooming house and other occupancies specified by this
subchapter shall be responsible for maintenance of the premises, buildings,
structures, and grounds thereto to the standards provided by this chapter and
this subchapter.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.172 ROOMING HOUSES; HOTELS; MOTELS.
   For purposes of administering this chapter provisions applying to rooming
houses as defined herein shall apply to hotels, motels, or other occupancies
where space for living or eating is rented or let for hire to a transient
clientele.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.173 ROOMING HOUSE PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall operate a rooming house without first obtaining a
valid rooming house permit issued by the Building Official upon application in
the name of the operator and for the specific rooming house and the permit
shall be prominently displayed within the rooming house at all times.
   (B)   A rooming house permit shall not be transferrable and shall be
surrendered by the permit holder to the Building Official within 24 hours of a
transfer of interest or control of a rooming house.
   (C)   A rooming house permit expires one year after the date upon which it
was issued and it shall be the responsibility of the operator to apply for
renewal.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.174 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a rooming house permit shall be filed with the Building
Official in such form as prescribed and shall be approved by the Zoning
Officer, Fire Chief, and Health Officer for endorsement that the building,
structure, and premises conform to ordinances, rules, and regulations enforced
by said officers.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.175 PERMIT FEE.
   The annual application fee for a rooming house permit shall be $100, which
shall be paid upon submission of any application to the village. All fees
received under this section shall be non-refundable.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65; Am. Ord. 1988-O-11, passed 3-15-88)
§ 151.176 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A rooming house permit may be revoked upon notice to the operator by the
Building Official upon violation of this chapter or any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant to this chapter or upon evidence of immoral conduct of the
operator or occupants of the rooming house.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.177 APPEAL OF REJECTION OR REVOCATION.
   A rooming house operator may appeal a rejection of a rooming house permit
application or a revocation order of the Building Official to the Board of
Appeals subject to procedures of the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.178 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   Every rooming unit shall have not less than one unobstructed means of egress
to the exterior of the building at ground level without passage through another
rooming unit and rooming units located above or below the ground floor shall
have not less than two means of egress, and all required means of egress shall
be as provided in §§
151.080 through
151.085 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.179 FLOOR AREA.
   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one persons shall contain not
less than 100 square feet of floor area and not less than 80 square feet for
each occupant and shall be not less in any dimension than provided in §§
151.090 through
151.096, and areas shall be computed as provided in §§
151.090 through
151.096.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.180 LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes shall be provided with light and
ventilation as provided in §§
151.105 through
151.108.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.181 PLUMBING, WATER, AND SANITATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every rooming house shall be equipped with not less than one flush
water closet, one lavatory basin, and one bathtub or shower properly connected
to an approved water and sewer system and in good working condition for each
six occupants or fraction thereof, including members of the operators family,
and each lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and
cold water at all times.
   (B)   Flush urinals may be substituted for not less than one-half the
required number of water closets in rooming houses of male occupancy only.
   (C)   All water closets, lavatory, and bath facilities shall be located to
afford privacy, shall be separate from habitable rooms, shall be readily
accessible to all occupants sharing the facilities from a common hall or
passageway without passing through any sleeping room or going outside the
building, and shall not be more than one story removed from the rooming unit of
any occupant intended to share the facility and no such facility located in a
basement or cellar shall be included in computing the required number, except
by approval of the Building Official.
   (D)   All such facilities shall be located in a room or rooms conforming to
requirements of §
151.066 and §§
151.120 through
151.124.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.182 HEATING.
   Every rooming unit and every rooming house shall be provided with heating
equipment as provided in §§
151.130 through
151.137 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.183 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Every rooming unit shall contain not less than two separate floor or
wall-type electric convenience outlets, or one such convenience outlet and one
ceiling type electric light fixture.
   (B)   Every public hall, stairway, and foyer of a rooming house shall be
provided with sufficient lighting fixtures to supply illumination of not less
than one foot-candle on every portion of such areas at all times of the day and
night.
   (C)   All electrical wiring, fixtures, and equipment shall be installed and
maintained as provided in §§
151.145 through
151.149.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.184 COOKING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Cooking facilities where permitted in rooming house units shall
include such equipment as required for kitchens in §§
151.040 through
151.048 and §§
151.120 through
151.124 of this chapter.
   (B)   Cooking equipment shall be so constructed and installed that it will
function safely and effectively and shall be maintained in sound working
condition.
   (C)   The use of portable cooking equipment employing flame and cooking
equipment using gasoline or kerosene as fuel shall not be permitted in rooming
units or rooming houses.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.185 BEDDING AND TOWELS.
   Bedding, bed linen, and towels supplied by the operator shall be maintained
in a clean and sanitary manner and clean bed linen and towels shall be supplied
not less than once each week and upon letting of any rooming unit to any
occupant.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
§ 151.186 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE DISPOSAL.
   Every rooming unit shall have adequate rubbish and garbage disposal
facilities and garbage containers of a type and in a location approved by the
Building Official.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
AESTHETIC STANDARDS
§ 151.200 ANTI-MONOTONY STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply to all construction of new single-family
detached dwellings in the village for which permits are granted after the
effective date of this section:
   (A)   Abutting lots. No single-family detached dwelling shall be erected on
any lot abutting, or directly across the street from, a lot with a single-
family detached dwelling of the same exterior design or appearance, or with
identical front elevations.
   (B)   Spacing. Not more than two single-family detached dwellings of the
same exterior design or appearance, or with identical front elevations, shall
be erected on the same block and on the same side of the street.
   (C)   Criteria. The village shall apply the criteria from divisions (C)(1)
through (C)(3) to determine whether the exterior design and appearance and
front elevations of two single-family detached dwellings are the same or,
instead, are sufficiently dissimilar:
      (1)   Roof lines. To be considered dissimilar, the roof lines of two
single-family detached dwellings as seen from the front of the dwelling shall
be changed in at least one of the following ways:
         (a)   Changing a gable roof to hip roof or changing a hip roof to a
gable roof.
         (b)   Providing an intersecting gable roof on the main roof, provided
that the height of the intersecting roof is at least 50% of the height of the
main roof.
         (c)   Providing an intersecting hip roof on the main hip roof,
provided that the height of the intersecting hip roof is at least 50% of the
height of the main roof.
      (2)   Windows. To be considered dissimilar, the windows of two single-
family detached dwellings shall be changed in at least one of the following
ways:
         (a)   Changing from single windows to a multiple-window arrangement
(ganged units) or changing from a multiple-window arrangement to single
windows.
         (b)   Providing a bay or bow window in the area of the predominant
window.
      (3)   Construction materials. To be considered dissimilar, the
construction materials of two single- family detached dwellings shall be
changed in at least one of the following ways, provided that when materials are
changed, the change must occur throughout the front facade of elevation for a
minimum of one story in height.
         (a)   Changing the siding from horizontal to vertical or vertical to
horizontal.
         (b)   Changing the facing material (wood, brick, stone, stucco/
staccato board and trim).
   (D)   Administration. The provisions of this section shall be administered
by the Building Official. To aid the Building Official and applicants in their
interpretation of the provisions of this section, the Building Official may
prepare illustrative drawings and written descriptions of the manner in which
the provisions have been or will be administered.
   (E)   Appeals. If a building permit is denied to an applicant by reason of
this section, then that applicant may appeal that decision to the Board of
Trustees, whose decision shall be final. On such appeal, the Board of Trustees
may:
      (1)   Order the permit to be issued;
      (2)   Order the permit to be issued if modifications are made in the
design of the building to bring it into conformity with the provisions of this
section; or
      (3)   Deny the appeal.
(Ord. 2000-O-16, passed 10-17-00)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $25 or more than $500 for each violation and each day's
failure to comply with such provisions shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 1965-O-2, passed 1-19-65)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Jurisdiction
   
152.003   When effective; title
   
152.004   Approvals, interpretations, and exceptions
   
152.005   Definitions
   
152.006   Variations
Design Standards
   
152.010   Street plan
   
152.011   Minimum street width
   
152.012   Easements
   
152.013   Residential block standards
   
152.014   Residential lot standards
   
152.015   Business district design and improvement
   
152.016   Industrial district design and improvement
   
152.017   Building lines
   
152.018   Site development standards for downtown (DT) districts
Subdivision Improvements
   
152.025   Landscaping
   
152.026   Signs
   
152.027   Required improvements
   
152.028   Monuments
   
152.029   Street construction
   
152.030   Street lighting requirements
   
152.031   Curbs, gutters, and drainage
   
152.032   Sidewalks
   
152.033   Water supply
   
152.034   Fire hydrants
   
152.035   Sanitary sewer system
   
152.036   Storm sewer system
   
152.037   Grading
   
152.038   Drainage plan
   
152.039   Public utilities
   
152.040   Design and construction policy for public improvements
   
152.041   Subdivisions outside village limits
   
152.042   Approval and acceptance of improvements
   
152.043   Inspection costs
   
152.044   Building permits
Cost Recapture
   
152.046   Sewer and water
Resubdivision
   
152.090   Resubdivision in lieu of vacation
   
152.091   Existing subdivisions
Dedications, Easements, and Reservations
   
152.095   Areas required to be dedicated
   
152.096   [Reserved]
   
152.097   Dedication of water and sewerage facilities
   
152.098   Utility easements
   
152.099   Buffer zone
   
152.100   Reservation
   
152.101   Vacation
   
152.102   Petition form and content
   
152.103   Notification
   
152.104   Procedure
   
152.105   Conditions upon approval
Requirements for Public Improvements
   
152.110   Roadway improvements; compliance with specifications
Road Design Standards
   
152.115   Road widths
   
152.116   Minimum radii
   
152.117   Intersections
   
152.118   Cul-de-sacs
   
152.119   Curbs and gutters
   
152.120   Seeding
Drainage and Storm Sewer Facilities
   
152.121   On-site storm water detention
   
152.122   Storm sewer facility requirements
   
152.123   Culverts
   
152.124   Ditches
   
152.125   Bridges
   
152.126   Drainage easements
Plats
   
152.130   Filing requirements for preliminary plat
   
152.131   Approval of preliminary plat
   
152.132   Final plat requirements
   
152.133   Approval of final plat
   
152.134   Assurance of completion
Dedication of Park Lands
   
152.155   Requirements for dedication
   
152.156   Criteria for requiring dedication
   
152.157   Contribution in lieu of park sites
   
152.158   Density formula
   
152.159   Reservation of additional land
   
152.160   Combination with adjoining developments
   
152.161   Topography and grading
   
152.162   Improved sites
   
152.163   Fully equipped land or sites
   
152.164   Title to sites
   
152.165   Calculations of cash in lieu of park lands
   
152.166   Cap on donations and contributions
Design Policy for Public Improvements
   
162.169   Fire and rescue donations
   
152.170   Submission of plans for approval
   
152.171   Required land improvements; underground improvements
   
152.172   Required land improvements; surface improvements
   
152.173   Inspection
   
152.174   Fees
Dams and Impoundment Structures
   
152.180   Supervision by structural engineer required
   
152.181   Masonry dams
   
152.182   Existing dams
Water Supply Facilities
   
152.190   Compliance with standard requirements; inspection
   
152.191   Community water systems
   
152.192   Individual wells
   
152.193   Fire hydrants
Sanitary Sewage Disposal Facilities
   
152.200   Community sewer facilities
   
152.201   Individual disposal systems
   
152.202   Community treatment facilities
   
152.210   Penalty
   
152.211   Fee schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter regulating the subdivision of land is hereby made a part of the
Official Plan for Winthrop Harbor and contiguous areas. It is, to provide for
the harmonious development of the Village and its' environs; for the
coordination of streets within new subdivisions with other existing or planned
streets; for the dedications and acceptance of land required for schools,
parks, playgrounds, and other public uses; for the preparation of subdivision
plans and the procedure for the submittal, approval, and recording of
subdivision plats in and about the Village in accordance with the authority
vested in the Village under the provisions of the State "Revised Cities and
Villages Act" Illinois Municipal Code.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.002 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Wherever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out within
the incorporated limits of the village or one and one-half miles beyond the
incorporated boundary of the village, the subdivider thereof or the
subdivider's agent shall submit both a preliminary plan and a final subdivision
plat to the village. Said plans and plats, proposed improvements, and all
procedure relating thereto, shall include all respects be in full compliance
with the regulations hereafter contained in this chapter.
   (B)   All lands offered to the village for use as streets, highways, alleys,
parks, and other public uses shall be referred to the Planning and Zoning Board
for review and recommendation before being accepted by the Village Board of
Trustees or by any other governing authority.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.003 WHEN EFFECTIVE; TITLE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect after November 11, 1966. This
chapter shall be know as the "Subdivision Regulations".
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.004 APPROVALS, INTERPRETATIONS, AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No land shall, after the adoption of these regulations, be subdivided
or entitled to record, until the plat or plans of subdivision shall have been
certified and approved by action of the Board of Trustees of the village. This
approval must be in writing and placed on the original tracing of the final
plats according to the procedures outlined in §
152.132.
   (B)   No lot, tract, or parcel of land within any such subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or
given until such subdivision plans have been properly reviewed by the Planning
and Zoning Board and officially approved by the Board of Trustees of the
village.
   (C)   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, storm water
drainage, sewerage facilities, lighting, grading, paving, or surfacing of
streets shall hereafter be made within any such subdivision by any owner or
owner's agent until the plats for the subdivision and also the plans for
improvements thereto have been formally recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Board and approved by the Board of Trustees of the village.
   (D)   Subdivisions of land lying outside of the village and within one and
one-half miles of the village limits shall also be required to conform with the
requirements of this chapter or the regulations of Lake County whenever said
county requirements are more stringent than the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Where a tract of land is proposed for subdivision that is part of a
large, logical subdivision unit in relation to the village as a whole, the
Village Mayor and Board of Trustees may cause to be prepared a possible plan of
the entire area; such plan to be used by the Planning and Zoning Board and the
Village Board as an aid in judging the proposed plat.
   (F)   All interpretations of these rules and regulations are reserved to the
administrative bodies referred to herein.
   (G)   The Village Board, in accordance with §
152.006 may vary and make exceptions as set forth herein in instances where
there is sufficient evidence, in its opinion, of hardship caused by topographic
conditions, or where any other reasonable deterrents prevail, provided the
variations or exceptions are in substantial conformance with the standards of
design of this chapter.
   (H)   Whenever the area is divided into lots containing one to three acres,
inclusive, and there are indications that such lots could eventually be
resubdivided into smaller building lots, consideration shall be given to the
street and lot arrangement of the original subdivision so that additional minor
streets can be opened which will permit a logical arrangement of smaller lots.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A.A.S.H.T.O. The American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials.
   ACCEPTED PUBLIC STREET. Any street duly accepted for maintenance by the
Board of Trustees of the village.
   ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES MANUAL. The current Manual of Administrative
Policies as published by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ALLEY. A strip of land, not less than 20 feet in width and not more than 40
feet in width, along the side or in the rear of properties, intended to provide
access to these properties.
   ALLEY. A minor traffic facility which is used primarily for vehicular access
to the back or side of properties abutting upon and having access to another
traffic facility.
   APPROVED STREET. Any street, whether public or private, meeting standards
and specifications of the village.
   BUILDABLE AREA. Any portion of the lot that is where a structure(s) may be
constructed. Floodway, floodplain, or wetland may be included in the minimum
lot size area but may not be buildable.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The building department of the village acting through
its designated building inspectors.
   BUILDING LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land so designated on
the plat of the proposed subdivision.
   COLLECTOR ROAD. A road designed for moderate volumes of traffic and extends
for some distance collecting and distributing traffic between major arterials
and local roads.
   COLLECTOR STREET or SECONDARY STREET. Those existing streets designated as
such on the Official Plan of the village and streets proposed as COLLECTOR
STREET in new subdivision which are designated with a right-of-way width of 66
to 80 feet, for access of traffic from several minor streets to a major street.
   COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Board of the village.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The official plan of Winthrop Harbor as adopted by the
Village Board.
   CONSERVATION, DEPARTMENT OF. The Illinois Department of Conservation.
   COUNTY. Lake County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Lake County.
   COUNTY CLERK. The County Clerk of Lake County.
   COUNTY RECORDER. The Recorder of Deeds of Lake County.
   COUNTY TREASURER. The Treasurer of Lake County.
   CROSS-WALKWAYS. A strip of land dedicated to public use, which is reserved
across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street having one open end and terminated by a vehicle
turnaround.
   DEDICATION. A mutually acceptable arrangement whereby the ownership of a
strip or parcel of land or other improvement is transferred to the village or
other public agency.
   DEVELOPER. Any person subdividing or resubdividing, erecting structures, or
causing to have made any improvements to land.
   DEVELOPMENT. The total improvement of land through building and development
of housing, commercial, and recreational uses in a coordinated manner,
including the division, or redivision of any tract or parcel of land.
   EASEMENT. A grant or dedication by a property owner for the use of a strip
or parcel of land by the general public, a corporation, or a certain person or
persons for a specific purpose or purposes.
   ENGINEER. A professional engineer registered as such and licensed to
practice in the state.
   E.P.A. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EXPRESSWAY. A fully access controlled divided facility serving high traffic
volumes at moderate to high speeds and designed to move vehicular traffic
between communities or other large areas.
   FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The specific design of all physical planning and
engineering elements necessary to develop the land in substantial compliance
with the approved preliminary development plan.
   FINAL PLAT. The drawings and documents described in § 152.072.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) or property lines measured along the line of
the street, or if the street is dead-ended, then all the property abutting on
one side between is intersecting street or property lines and the dead-end of
the street.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A public or private marginal access roadway or paved parking
lot containing the necessary driveways or traffic ways which are located along
the frontage of multiple-family, business, or industrial zoning districts with
regulations for purposes of establishing minimum distances between points of
access to the accepted street, eliminating parking of motor vehicles on the
accepted public street.
   HALF ROAD. That road which may ultimately be part of a full road in a
development which is providing frontage along one side only. The width shall be
at least 50% of the ultimate required road width.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Lake County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Administrator of the Lake County Health Department.
   HIGHWAY DESIGN MANUAL. The current design manual as published by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
   HIGHWAY STANDARDS MANUAL. The current standards manual as published by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
   IMPROVEMENT or PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any facility for which the village or
other municipal body may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance
and operation or which is constructed for general public use or benefit.
   INDUSTRIAL STREET. Any street included in any subdivision or plot of ground
to be used for industrial purposes as defined in the zoning ordinance of the
village.
   INTERMITTENT STREAM. A stream or portion of a stream that flows only in
direct response to precipitation. It receives little or no water from springs
and no long-continued supply from melting show or other sources. It is
ordinarily dry for more than three months of the year.
   INTERSECTION, STREET. The area embraced within the prolongation or
connection of the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary
lines of the roadways of two highways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict. Where
a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of
each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting highway shall be
regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such intersecting highway
also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of two
roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   LOCAL ROAD. A road which serves relatively low volumes of traffic in
residential areas, subdivisions, and rural areas.
   LOT. A parcel of land.
   MAJOR ARTERIAL. A facility serving traffic volumes of medium high speed and
is usually the main roadway connecting municipalities.
   MARGINAL ACCESS ROAD. A local road which is adjacent to or is included in
the right-of-way of an expressway, major arterial, collector road, railroad, or
utility right-of-way and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A street which is parallel to and adjacent to
primary streets and highways, and which provided access to abutting properties
and protection to local traffic from fast, through-moving traffic on the
primary streets.
1996 S-5
   MINOR STREET. A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
   NSSD. The North Shore Sanitary District.
   OWNER. The individuals, firms, associations, syndicates, co-partnerships,
corporations, trusts, or any other legal entities having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under the statutes of the state or under the
ordinances of the village.
   PEDESTRIANWAY. As defined in the Highway Design Manual.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land which is developed as a per unit under
single ownership or control and which includes two or more principal buildings.
   PLAT. A map, drawings, or chart on which the subdivider's plan of the
subdivision is presented and which the subdivider submits for approval and
intends to record in final form.
   PONDING. The creation of pockets or depressions which have no surface
drainage provided and which, in the event of a failure on the part of inlets or
storm sewers, will contain standing water. That portion of surface waters which
are flowing will not be considered as PONDING.
   PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The general design of land to be developed. It
is the general concept and design of all physical planning elements related to
the rational and economic development of land together with the application of
services adequate to support the development of the land.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. Preliminary plan shall mean the drawings and documents
described in §
152.130.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. Preliminary plat shall mean the drawings and documents
described in §
152.130.
   PRIMARY STREET. Primary or major street shall mean a street of considerable
continuity which serves or is intended to serve as a major traffic artery
between the various sections of the Winthrop Harbor area. (As shown on the
Major Thoroughfare Plan, made a part of the Official Plan) (Deleted by Bob M)
   PRIVATE ROAD. A road in which no public interest is shown. Such a road is
not eligible for public maintenance or improvements and must provide a private
means of snow removal. It must conform to all the standards and specifications
of this chapter.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Any public board created by authority of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
   PUBLIC STREET. All primary, secondary, and minor streets which are shown on
the subdivision plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land dedicated to the village or other agency for
roadway or utility purposes.
1996 S-5
   ROADWAY or ROAD. The paved area existing on the street right-of-way and not
the street right-of- way width.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. The current standard specifications for road and
bridge construction adopted by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   STREET. The width of the street right-of-way or easement, whether public or
private, and shall not be considered as the width of paving or other
improvement on the street right-of-way.
   STRUCTURAL ENGINEER. A structural engineer registered as such and licensed
to practice in the state.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person subdividing or resubdividing land for themselves or
for another.
   SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision or redivision of any subdivision, tract,
parcel, or lot of land into two or more parts by means of mapping, platting,
conveyance, change or rearrangement of boundaries or otherwise, and shall also
relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided where
appropriate to the context.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of land into two or more parts, for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building development,
including all public streets, alleys, ways for public service facilities,
parks, playgrounds, school grounds or other public grounds, and all the tracts,
parcels, lots, or blocks, and numbering of all such lots, blocks or parcels by
progressive numbers, giving their precise dimensions.
      (2)   Any planned development shall be deemed a SUBDIVISION for the
purpose of these regulations regardless of whether the land is divided into
parcels for separate sale or is developed on a lease basis and said SUBDIVISION
shall be subject to the improvement and design requirements of this chapter and
other requirements specified by the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (3)   Any division of land made pursuant and in conformity with "An act
to revise the law in relation to plats" (Ill. Comp. statutes, ILCS Ch. 765, Act
205) for which such act specifically provides that no subdivision plat is
required shall not be considered a SUBDIVISION and shall be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter. However, all lots so created shall conform to all
other applicable village zoning, land use and development regulations.
      (4)   No certificates of occupancy shall be issued until the
Superintendent of Public Works and the Village Engineer have recommended
acceptance to the President and Board of Trustees for the street, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer and water main in the subdivision.
   SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered as such in the state.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL MANUAL. The current manual for "Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways" as published by the Illinois Department of
Transportation.
   TRAFFIC FACILITY. Any public or private right-of-way used for or to be used
for travel whether designated as an expressway, highway, arterial, road,
street, thoroughfare, avenue, lane, place, alley, or however otherwise
designated.
1996 S-5
   TRANSPORTATION, DEPARTMENT OF. The Illinois Department of Transportation.
   U.S.G.S. The United States Geological Survey, an agency of the United States
Department of the Interior.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The registered professional engineer designated in that
capacity by the village.
   WATERWAY. A natural course or constructed channel for the flow of water
including but not limited to a river, channel, canal, or other navigable body
of water used for travel or transport.
   WATER RESOURCES, OFFICE OF. The Illinois Office of Water Resources, a
division of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The village zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.006 VARIATIONS.
   The Planning and Zoning Board may recommend a variation of the application
of the regulations of this chapter in harmony with their general purpose and
intent and in accordance with the rules therein contained in cases where there
are particular difficulties or peculiar hardship in the way of carrying out the
strict letter of any of such regulations relating to the subdividing of land,
and may recommend to the Village Board that said Village Board approve said
plat of subdivision in spite of failure to comply strictly with the letter of
any regulations, stating the reasons for said recommendation.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
STANDARDS
§ 152.010 STREET PLAN.
   (A)   The subdivision of land, including the arrangement, character, extent,
width, grade, and location of all streets, alleys, or other land to be
dedicated for public use shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographic conditions, to public convenience and safety,
and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served
by such streets.
   (B)   Arrangement.
      (1)   The arrangement of roads shall provide for the continuation of
roads between and to adjacent properties when such continuation is necessary
for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire protection, and for the
efficient provision of utilities. If the adjacent property is undeveloped, a
temporary cul-de-sac shall be provided and the right-of-way shall be extended
to the boundary line of the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   A temporary “T” shaped turnaround may be provided on all temporary
cul-de-sacs with a notation on the subdivision plat that land outside the
normal right-of-way shall revert to the adjacent landowners whenever the road
is extended.
   (C)   Existing road patterns. All roads shall be properly integrated with
the existing or proposed network of roads. The rigid rectangular road pattern
need not necessarily be adhered to and the use of curvilinear roads, cul-de-
sacs, or U shaped roads shall be encouraged where such will result in a more
desirable layout.
   (D)   Traffic generators. All roads shall be properly related to special
traffic generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches,
and shopping centers, to population densities, and to the pattern of existing
and proposed land uses.
   (E)   Roads along boundary lines. No roads shall be laid out on the
periphery of the subdivision. Exceptions to this may be permitted where such
roads are desirable for future expansion or where such roads conform to the
existing or proposed network of roads.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.011 MINIMUM STREET WIDTH.
   The minimum widths of rights-of-way for streets to be dedicated or
established after the effective date of this chapter shall conform to the
following schedule:
   (A)   Primary streets, major streets,   80 to 100 ft.
      and parkways: (located in accordance
      with Major Thoroughfare ft. Plan)
   (B)   Secondary or collector street or   60 to 80 ft.
      industrial street
   (C)   Marginal access street   66 feet
      (without intersecting streets)
   (D)   Minor Street   60 to 66 ft.
   (E)   Cul-de-sac   60 ft. radius
   (F)   Cross-walkways   10 feet
   (G)   Utility easements   10 to 20 feet
   (H)   The minimum widths of rights-   66 feet
      of-way for two-family or
      apartment developments shall be
   (I)   Access, maintenance or public   20 feet
      improvement easements
   (J)   The minimum of rights-of-way for minor streets in single-family
developments shall be as follows:
      Streets with ditches (only where otherwise permitted)   66 feet
      Streets with curb and gutter   60 feet
   (K)   When minor streets adjoin an un-subdivided parcel, a street not less
than 30 feet in width may be dedicated and whenever a later subdivision of
property adjoins said street, the remainder of the street shall be dedicated at
the time of platting the un-subdivided parcel.
   (L)   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged. Where a marginal or access street is used as a minor
street in a residential subdivision with the lot having frontage on both the
minor street and a primary major, secondary, or collector street, the covenants
and plat of the subdivision shall prohibit the installation of driveways or
access along the property line of the lot which forms the line of a primary,
major, secondary or collector street.
   (M)    Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
   (N)   Clear visibility, measured along the centerline of the street shall be
provided for at least 300 feet on all primary streets, 200 feet on secondary
streets, and at least 100 feet on all other streets.
   (O)   It must be evidenced that all street intersections and confluences
encourage safe traffic flow.
   (P)   Alleys.
      (1)   Alleys may be required in commercial and industrial districts. The
Planning and Zoning Board shall refer any variations to the Board of Trustees
for waiving this requirement if provisions are made for service access such as
off-street loading, unloading, and parking consistent with and adequate for the
uses proposed.
      (2)   Alleys shall be prohibited in residential areas except where
topographic or other conditions may necessitate their use.
      (3)   The width of an alley shall not be less than 20 feet.
   (Q)   The maximum length cul-de-sac shall be 600 feet measured along the
centerline from the intersection at origin, through center of circle, to end of
right-of-way. Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape
with a minimum diameter of 120 feet.
   (R)   Half-streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations; and where the Village President and Board of
Trustees finds it will be practicable to require the dedication of the other
half when the adjoining property is subdivided. Wherever a half-street is
adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be
placed within such tract. No strip or area shall be reserved along any portion
of a street, half-street, or alley which will prevent adjacent property owners
access thereto, except by consent of the Village Board.
   (S)   No street names may be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets in local postal districts. Existing street names
must be projected wherever possible.
   (T)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed
major street, the Village President and Board of Trustees may require a
marginal access street or reversed frontage with screen planting contained in a
non-access reservation, which shall have a minimum width of ten feet; (along
the adjoining property line;) or other treatment as may be adequate for
protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and
local traffic.
   (U)   If the tract of land proposed to be subdivided or any part thereof
lies adjacent to a highway over which the Lake County Division of
Transportation or, the Division of Highways of the state has jurisdiction with
respect to maintenance and upkeep thereof, and an entrance or entrances are
desired from such highway to lots, streets, roadways, or alleys in such
proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall submit to the Village Engineer a
written permit from the said Division of Highways granting the Division's
permission to obtain and construct such an entrance or entrances.
   (V)   Where, in the opinion of the President and Board of Trustees it is
desirable to provide for street access to adjoining property, the proposed
streets shall be extended by the dedication to the boundary of such property.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 6-4-08)
§ 152.012 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided for public utilities and street lighting where necessary, and shall be
specified by the public utility company. The easement shall be so laid out that
a proper continuity may be had from lot to lot and from block to block. In
addition, due provisions for extension of easements to adjacent areas shall be
made. Written approval of the utility easement layout by the public utility
companies shall be required on the final plat.
   (B)   Whenever a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage way,
channel or stream, the subdivider shall make adequate provision for improving
the channel so that it will properly carry the surface water, and shall also
provide and dedicate to the village an easement along each side of the stream,
which easements shall be for the purpose of access, maintenance, widening,
improving, or protecting the stream. The width of each easement shall not be
less than 20 feet, and the total width of the easements shall be adequate to
provide for any necessary maintenance.
   (C)   Minimum 20 foot wide public improvement easements shall be platted
centered on all side yard lot lines and rear yard lot lines.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.013 RESIDENTIAL BLOCK STANDARDS.
   The maximum lengths of blocks may be permitted up to 1,200 feet. Blocks over
800 feet may require cross-walk easements. Cross-walk easements not less than
ten feet in width shall be provided where deemed necessary by the Planning and
Zoning Board at the approximate centers of the blocks. The use of additional
cross-walk-ways in any instance to provide safe and convenient access to
schools, parks, or other similar destinations may be recommended by the
Planning and Zoning Board.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.014 RESIDENTIAL LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All side lot lines shall be generally perpendicular to the street
right-of-way lines, or radial to curved street lines unless necessary to
achieve a better street and lot plan. Lots with double frontage shall be
avoided. All residential lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated right-of-way.
   (B)   The area of the street right-of-way, whether dedicated to the public
or a private street or easement for street purposes, shall not be included in
calculating the area of the lot to be in accordance with the minimum lot area
requirements of the zoning district in which the lot is located.
   (C)   Corner lots shall have extra width sufficient to permit the
establishment of front building setback lines on both the front and the side of
the lots adjoining the streets as stipulated in the Zoning Ordinance for the
appropriate zoning district.
   (D)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a radius
of 25 feet or a greater minimum radius where the Planning and Zoning Board
considers it necessary.
   (E)   Lots abutting a water course, drainage way, channel, or stream shall
have additional minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate
building site and afford the minimum usable area required in the zoning
ordinance for front, rear, and side yards.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.015 BUSINESS DISTRICT DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT.
   The minimum standards for design and improvement of subdivisions developed
in areas zoned for business use after November 21, 1966 shall be in accordance
with the requirements for planned business center districts as stipulated in §§
154.105 through
154.111. These standards shall apply regardless of whether the subdivision is
platted for sale in lots, tracts, or parcels or is planned to be held under one
ownership and leased.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.016 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT.
   The minimum standards for design and improvements of subdivisions developed
in areas zoned for industrial use after (November 21, 1966) shall be in
accordance with the requirements for planned industrial districts as stipulated
in §§
154.120 through
154.134. These standards shall apply regardless of whether the subdivision is
platted for sale in lots, tracts, or parcels, or is planned to be held in one
ownership and leased.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.017 BUILDING LINES.
   (A)   Minimum building lines shall be shown on plats which are intended for
residential use of any character, and on commercial or industrial lots
immediately adjoining said residential areas. Such building lines on lots
adjacent to major highways shall not be less than the building and setback
lines established by any ordinance of the Village Board. In all cases, building
lines shall not be less than required by any zoning regulation applying to the
property.
   (B)   Building lines for territory outside the incorporated limits but
within the jurisdiction of this chapter shall conform to the provisions of the
applicable county ordinance.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.018 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR DOWNTOWN (DT) DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Applicability. The following standards apply to all developments or
redevelopments within any or any combination of downtown (DT) districts where
the total combined acreage is larger than five acres and/or construction of a
new street is included.
   (B)   New streets and subdivision. For all developments with total parcel
acreage larger than five acres, subdivision and construction of a new street
will yield the most buildings as the regulations require buildings to front
streets. The following recommendations apply:
      (1)   Interconnected street pattern. Streets shall connect and continue
existing streets from adjoining areas. Cul-de-sac and dead end streets should
be avoided when not necessitated by natural features or site constraints.
      (2)   Blocks.
         (a)   The shape of a block shall be generally rectangular, but may
vary due to natural features or site constraints.
         (b)   Block size should be less than 400', but may be as long as 650'
due to natural features or site constraints.
      (3)   Access points. A minimum of two access points should be provided
for each development, with a minimum of one per every 1,500 feet of boundary
recommended.
      (4)   Primary streets. Designate primary streets so that all buildings
front at least one primary street. Vehicular access should not be located off a
primary street, unless the parcel is fronted by more than two primary streets.
      (5)   Alleys and lanes. Blocks may include interior alleys or lanes.
Refer to division (E) of this section for typical alley configuration.
      (6)   Typical lot configuration. All lots shall have frontage along
either an existing street or one of the street types included in these
regulations, unless otherwise specified in building type requirements. Flag
lots are prohibited.
   (C)   Open space requirements. All developments within any or any
combination of DT districts totaling over five acres shall meet the following:
      (1)   One type of open space is required within 1/6th of a mile of the
principal residential entrance of all residential and mixed use buildings or
units.
      (2)   Types of open space. The following types of open space are
permitted:
         (a)   Plaza. A plaza is a generally hardscaped area between one-
quarter and two acres in size with either street right-of-way or building
frontage on all sides and at least one side the equivalent of 25% of the
perimeter open to the street.
         (b)   Square. A square is a combination of hardscape and landscape
between one-quarter and three acres in size and surrounded by street frontage
on all sides.
         (c)   Green. A green is a generally landscaped space between one-half
and two acres with street right-of-way on at least 75% of the perimeter.
         (d)   Park. A park is a larger, generally landscaped space, a minimum
of two acres in size, with at least 25% of the perimeter on street right-of-
way.
         (e)   Existing open space. Existing natural area or open space within
the limits of the requirements may be used.
   (D)   General street requirements. The following requirements shall apply to
all new and existing streets within DT districts with the intent of creating
pedestrian oriented, multimodal streets. Refer to Figure (B)1 for a typical
recommended layout for new streets on a parcel for redevelopment.
      (1)   Typical street elements. All street rights-of-way should include
the following vehicular and pedestrian realm considerations. Refer to
Figure (D)(1)1 Typical Right-of-Way Elements.
         (a)   Vehicular realm. The vehicular realm is comprised of the travel
lanes, bicycle lanes, and parking lanes.
         (b)   Pedestrian realm. The pedestrian realm is comprised of
pedestrian facilities, such as sidewalk. A buffer area that serves to buffer
pedestrians or bicyclists from the movements of higher speed vehicles in the
vehicular realm shall consist of one of the following:
            1.   Landscape zone. A landscape area between the back of curb to
the sidewalk in which street trees, stormwater swales, lighting, and signage
may be located. Typically used adjacent to residential ground floor uses.
            2.   Furnishings zone. A hardscape area that extends from the
sidewalk to the back of curb, in which street trees, street furniture,
lighting, and signage may be located. Typically used adjacent to commercial or
office ground floor uses.
         (c)   Bicycle facilities. Bicycle facilities, such as dedicated lanes
and dedicated shared lanes should be included on any streets based on the
village's bicycle plan if one exists. New streets within DT districts shall
utilize shared lanes. A shared lane refers to a street that does not have
bicycle lanes or a designated shared lane, but the speed and configuration of
the street is such that bicycles could comfortably share lanes with traffic.
         (d)   Vehicular on-street parking. On-street parking, whether parallel
or diagonal, should be included on both sides of all streets, unless otherwise
noted on the street type.
         (e)   Alley. Refer to division (E) of this section for a typical alley
requirements.
      (2)   Trees. Street trees are required along all new and existing street
frontages.
         (a)   All planting material requirements within
Chapter 159 Landscape shall be met.
         (b)   Street trees shall be located in either a landscape zone (within
a planting bed or lawn) or a furnishings zone (in trees wells with grate as
required) per division (D)(1)(b) of this section.
      (3)   Pedestrian lighting. Pedestrian light fixtures shall be installed
per the street requirements of the village's Department of Public Works and any
streetscape master plan adopted by the village.
      (4)   Streetscape design submittal. For all developments with new streets
and/or with 400 feet or more of existing street frontage within a downtown (DT)
district, a consistent streetscape design shall be submitted for approval. At a
minimum, the submittal shall include the following:
         (a)   Street trees. Trees shall be included in the streetscape design,
with details related to tree pits, tree planting to meet the requirements of
Chapter 159.
         (b)   Sidewalk pavement design. Sidewalk paving materials and pattern
shall be set for each street type (refer to division (D)(1)(b) of this
section).
         (c)   Street furnishings. Benches, seatwalls, planters, planter
fences, trash receptacles, and bicycle racks at the least shall be specified
and quantities and locations listed for each street type. A minimum of two
benches, two trash receptacles, and two bicycle racks are required for each
block face.
         (d)   Landscape design. Ground plane vegetation shall be designated
for any landscape bed areas, planter areas, and tree wells.
         (e)   Lighting. Pedestrian and vehicular lighting shall be specified
and locations and quantities noted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4223.jpg]
Figure (D)(1)1
         (f)   Identity elements. Any other elements designed to establish the
identity of each street, such as banners, pavement markers, artwork, or
signage, shall be included in the streetscape design submittal.
   (E)   Alley.
      (1)   Intent. The alley is a very low capacity drive located at the rear
of parcels. From the alley, access to parking facilities, loading facilities,
and service areas, such as refuse and utilities is possible without a curb cut
or driveway interrupting a street type. Refer to the typical plan and section
in
Figure (E)(2)1.
      (2)   General requirements.  Alleys shall be developed using the
standards in Table (E)(2)1.
Alley
Alley
Location              Any
Typical ROW Width     20'
Vehicular Realm
Travel Lanes          1 yield lane
Lane Width            16 feet
Allowable Turn Lanes  Not applicable
Parking Lanes         Not applicable
Pavement Width        Minimum 16 feet
                      Maximum 20 feet
Bicycle Facilities    Shared
Pedestrian Realm
Pedestrian Facilities Shared; travel lanes are shared among drivers,
                      pedestrians and bicyclists
Street Buffer         None required
 
   Table (E)(2)1 Typical Alley Standards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4225.jpg]
Figure (E)(2)1
(Ord. 2014-O-9, passed 5-20-14)
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.025 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   All improved areas within the dedicated street area or other public
use areas shall be graded and seeded in an approved manner.
   (B)   Trees shall be planted within the right-of-way throughout the entire
subdivision. The trees shall be of the following:
(1)   LINDENS   (2)   OAKS      (3)   OTHERS
American           Red Oak            Hackberry
Redmond            Burr Oak           Honeylocust
Greenspire         White Oak          Ginkgo
(4)   MAPLES    (5) ASH
Sugar Maple        White
King Crimson Maple Green
Red Maple          Emerald (Seedless)
Cleveland Maple    Emerald Lustre
                   Red Sunset
 
   (C)   All trees shall be of a diameter of not less than two inches and the
developer shall furnish certification that said trees are free from disease
under the state Plant Inspection Department of Standards. The trees shall be
transplanted stock with the transplanting thereof having been done within four
years from the date of the recording of the subdivision. Trees when so planted
shall be only of one specie between two intersecting streets.
   (D)   In any circumstances where trees cannot be planted, whether due to
adverse weather conditions or for other just cause, by the developer of the
subdivision, an amount of funds, determined by the village to be sufficient to
cover the costs of purchase and planting of such trees in compliance with this
section. Shall be deposited with the Village Treasurer. The fees will be in
accordance with current fee schedule.
      (1)   If the developer has not planted such trees within a reasonable
period of time, the village may notify the owner of the lot, for which the
developer placed such funds in escrow, or the amount in the escrow, and if the
owner of that lot causes trees to be planted, in conformity with this section,
the village may reimburse such lot owner, from the escrow, up to the amount of
money placed into the escrow for that lot.
      (2)   If after one year after the deposit of such funds into the escrow,
neither the developer nor lot owner have planted trees in the public right-of-
way for such lot, then the village shall notify both the developer and the
owner of the lot, that if a tree is not planted on the public right-of-way of
such lot within 30 days, that the escrow shall be forfeited to the village, and
the village may, at its election, either use such funds held in the escrow to
plant a tree on the public right-of-way for that lot or, in any public place
within the village.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.026 SIGNS.
   (A)   Subdivision signs. After the approval of such subdivision plat and
installation of public improvements, the subdivider shall purchase and install
throughout the subdivision signs of such number, type, and size as shall have
been approved by the President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Road names. Road names shall not be confusingly similar to or
duplicate any other road in the village or adjacent townships or
municipalities. New roads which are extensions or in alignment with existing
roads shall bear the name of the existing road. The names of all roads shall be
approved by the village.
   (C)   Prohibition of signs.
      (1)   Only authorized signs shall be permitted to be placed, displayed,
or maintained within the right-of-way of any road.
      (2)   Street name signs shall be erected at each intersection so as to
identify every street within the subdivision. Street name signs shall conform
to specifications in most recent addition of the Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices, Department of Public Works and Buildings, State of Illinois.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.027 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall be improved with the improvements enumerated in
Design and Construction Standards for Public Improvements and all such
improvements shall comply with the specifications for such improvements adopted
by the village.
   (B)   In case of resubdivision or areas to be subdivided where any of such
improvements are already installed which meet the requirements of the
Standards, no further provision to duplicate such installation shall be
required; provided, however, that where such installations have become worn
out, broken, defective, or do not meet village standards, the subdivider,
developer, builder shall be required to repair, correct, or upgrade such
defects to village design standards and specifications.
   (C)   If property for which an application to subdivide has been presented
abuts on or contains an existing public street which has width or roadway less
than specified in the Design and Construction Standards, the subdivider shall
be required to dedicate additional land and provide additional pavement to
bring roadway widths up to the minimum standards before the approval of the
property for subdivision or resubdivision.
   (D)   The Village Engineer shall determine that proper adjustment is made
where the widenings merge with the existing narrow widths of pavement at the
boundary of the property and to require that the lanes are painted to designate
driving and parking lanes.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.028 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Permanent monuments shall be placed at all corners and at points of
tangency of curve lines along the boundary of the subdivision. Permanent
monuments shall be of concrete with minimum dimensions of four inches by four
inches at top, six inches by six inches at bottom and 36 inches long, with a
copper dowel three-eighths inch in diameter, at least two and one-half inches
in length, imbedded so that the top of the dowel shall be flush with the
surface and at the center of the monument.
   (B)   All lot corners not marked by concrete monuments shall be marked by
galvanized or wrought iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least 18 inches in
length and not less than one-half inch in diameter. The top of the pipe or bar
is to be set level with the established grade of the ground.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.029 STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All new streets within the corporate limits of the village dedicated
or platted after November 21, 1966 shall be improved with roadway paving and
bordered by portland cement concrete curbs, in accordance with the following
dimensions:
 
Primary or major streets 48 feet between backs of curbs or two 24 foot
                         roadways, divided by a median strip
Secondary Streets        40 feet
Minor streets            30 feet
Cul-de-sac streets       22 feet from edge to edge of pavement
Marginal access streets  22 feet from edge to edge of pavement
Front age roads          22 feet from edge to edge of pavement
 
   (B)   Grades of streets shall meet with the standards and specifications
developed by the Village Engineer and on file with the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Roadway pavements shall meet with the standards and specifications
developed by the Village Engineer and on file with the Village Clerk.
   (D)   Roadway crowns shall meet the standard village specifications.
   (E)   Where the gradient of the street warrants installation of vertical-
type curb or other special design of improvements, such as double inlets, the
Village Engineer is authorized to require said design.
   (F)   Streets within or abutting subdivisions containing two-family or
apartment developments shall have sidewalks on both sides of the street and
shall have no less than a 36-foot pavement including concrete curb, and a
radius of curvature of 130 feet.
   (G)   The complete design for frontage roads, including specifications and
designation of traffic-ways, driving lanes, parking lanes, paving widths,
thickness, materials, and the like shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Board for review and approval prior to the issuance of building permits
or the sale or lease of buildings or land in planned developments. The minimum
number of off-street spaces shall be in accordance with the requirements of the
zoning ordinance of the village.
   (H)   Parking areas shall have a minimum thickness of seven inches of
portland cement concrete, or eight inches of aggregate base course surfaced
with three inches of bituminous concrete.
   (I)   Whenever a frontage road is to be dedicated to public use, it shall
conform to the requirements of this chapter for other streets of similar
nature.
   (J)   No planned development in which more than one owner or lessee are to
use the same private frontage road or parking lot shall be approved by the
Planning and Zoning Board, unless a covenant with power for use and maintenance
of such private frontage road or parking lot is recorded.
   (K)   Where possible, a minimum distance of 750 feet shall be required
between points of ingress and egress.
   (L)   Where the subdivision contains two or more lots having an average area
of three acres or less, the minimum design standards for the widths of street
right-of-ways and paving for industrial subdivisions or developments shall be
the same or of a higher specification than required for secondary streets in
this chapter, and shall also be subject to such additional design and
improvement standards as may be recommended by the Planning and Zoning Board,
the Village Engineer, and the Board of Trustees.
   (M) Where an industrial tract having more than 20 acres has frontage on an
existing primary or major highway shown on the official plan of the village,
the driveways serving the principal building may be designed and installed with
pavement standards lower than required for industrial or secondary streets in §
152.010 and §
152.029 provided a circulation plan for driveway design, improvements, and
direction of traffic flow is submitted to and approved by the Village Planning
and Zoning Board.
   (N)   No subdivision plat shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided
or resubdivided shall have frontage on or can be provided with access to the
following:
      (1)   An existing major arterial, collector, or local road; or
      (2)   A road shown upon a plat recorded in the office of the County
Recorder.
   (O)   Whenever land adjacent to and existing road is subdivided with lot/
lots facing or having direct access thereon and said road is not improved to a
standard as high as that required for the proposed subdivision road, the
subdivider, owner or builder will be required to improve, reconstruct, patch,
and/or resurface said road if said road is used for access to said lots or
damaged during construction.
   (P)   Where a subdivision does not front on a road, and the access road does
not lie within the subdivision, not less than one road of full width shall be
provided to furnish the subdivision with access to an existing road. Said
access road shall be improved by the subdivider, owner or builder to at least
the standard required for the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
   (Q)   Prior to plat approval, the village and the developer shall agree on
the specific roads covered by the provisions of this section, and shall further
agree upon the amount of money to be provided for in the developer's letter of
credit to cover the reasonably estimated and anticipated cost of repairs and/or
upgrades, but this amount of money shall not be determinative of the total
responsibility of the developer for any such damage or upgrades, but shall
merely be indicative of the good faith estimates of the village and developer
for such projected costs; and further, the village and developer shall agree
upon a time frame in which the improvements and repairs shall be completed, all
of which agreement shall be in writing, and shall be maintained of record in
the village.
(Ord. 1998-O-4, passed 2-17-98)
§ 152.030 STREET LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Street lights shall be installed in accordance with the standards and
specifications developed by the Village Engineer and shall be Commonwealth
Edison acceptable and maintained.
   (A)   This item shall be constructed in accordance with the applicable
section of the I.D.O.T. “Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items”,
January 1, 1977. The work shall consist of the installation of individual
service lighting units including pole luminary, bracket arm, lamp, photocell,
and receptacle and wiring.
   (B)   Lighting unit - pole and bracket arm. The pole shall be of #83-40-
8423-0621 aluminum equal to Kaiser Catalogue or equal with a six foot bracket
spread; mid block pole, ten foot spread, pole length 22 feet, mounting height
25 feet. All lighting standards shall have a bolt down base and shall be the
“breakaway” type.
   (C)   The aluminum pole shaft shall be a one piece, seamless, round tapered
tube of alloy 6063, or metallurgical equal, and shall be full length heat
treated after welding on the base flange to produce T6 temper. A handhole,
frame and cover shall be provided.
   (D)   A 5/8" X 8' ground rod shall be installed at each aluminum pole
location and connected to the pole with No. 8 stranded copper wire with an
aluminum to copper approved lug. A set screw shall be provided in the base of
the pole for lug attachment.
   (E)   The bracket arm shall be of tapered aluminum construction of length
specified on the plans.
   (F)   Luminaries shall be as follows:
      (1)   The luminaries shall consist of a housing, reflector, refractor
holder, lamp sockets, with a two inch cast slipfitter and shall be McGraw
Edison “Unidor 250” or approved equal. The ballast components shall be mounted
in the luminary for accessibility to the wiring.
      (2)   The luminary shall provide IES Type II distribution and shall
accommodate the required high pressure sodium lamp. Type II fourway refractors
shall be used at all intersection.
   (G)   Ballasts and lamps. The ballast shall be designed to operate an
individual high pressure sodium lamp and shall be compatible with the specified
lighting unit. The refractor on luminary shall be made of heat resistant
Borosilicate glass.
   (H)   Photocell and receptacle. The luminary shall include an integrally
mounted photocell receptacle with internal wiring. The photocell shall be rated
for 105-285 volts.
   (I)   Conductors. All underground electrical conductors shall be one inch
diameter unit-duct or equal with electrical conductors, type THW, with 600 volt
insulation. No conductor shall be smaller than #6 AWG copper. Voltage drop
shall not exceed 5%. Voltage for all standards shall be 120 volts.
   (J)   Wire shall be buried a minimum of 30 inches below grade. Where unit-
duct cross under streets, sidewalks, or private drives, they shall be run in
hotdipped galvanized heavy wall rigid conduit not smaller than two inches
internal diameter and this conduit shall extend beyond the curb or concrete, as
the case may be, for a minimum distance of 12 inches on both sides of the
street, or concrete in the case of concrete, or asphalt in the case private
drives or sidewalks. On each end of this conduit shall be a bakelite bushing
and, after placing wires, this conduit shall be sealed with duck seal.
   (K)   All trenches must be backfilled and the soil tamped and smoothed.
Extra care shall be exercised in trenching, backfilling, tamping and smoothing
atop the trench where seeded grass areas have been disturbed by trenching.
   (L)   Wires for the connecting of the underground cable to the ballast in
luminary shall not be less than #12 stranded copper THW type. Connections at
base between the pole wires and the underground cable shall be made with split
bolt connectors thoroughly taped and pointed after painting with an insulating
and moisture-proof paint. No underground splices will be allowed, nor shall the
use of aluminum wire be allowed.
   (M) Payment. Payment shall be made on a lump sum basis for pole units
including pole, bracket arm, luminaire, lamp photocell and receptacle. Wiring
cable and galvanized steel conduit shall be paid for on a lump sum basis for
cable and galvanized steel conduit installed in place. Lump sum prices for all
items listed above shall be included in the lump sum price for street lighting
improvements.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.031 CURBS, GUTTERS, AND DRAINAGE.
   Curbs, gutters, and drainage shall be provided in accordance with standard
specifications on file in the village. Such construction shall be subject to
inspection and approval of the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.032 SIDEWALKS.
   Portland cement concrete sidewalks shall be constructed one foot from the
property line of the lots and along such line as extended at intersections, and
shall be in accordance with standards and specifications developed by the
Village Engineer and on file with the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.033 WATER SUPPLY.
   Each lot within the subdivision shall be provided with a public water supply
approved by the village and water mains shall be installed in that portion of
the public way as is approved by the Village Engineer and Village Board
traversing all streets throughout said subdivision. All connections shall be
subject to the approval of the Village Engineer and Superintendent of Public
Works. The subdivision water system so required shall be connected to the
existing village water main system at such point of connection as is most
reasonably available, taking into account the size of the main at said point of
connection in relation to the water demands reasonably expected within such
subdivision. Water main extension shall be so laid out as to prevent dead-end
mains wherever possible.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.034 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Fire hydrants shall be installed within the subdivision. The type and
quality shall be in accordance with standards and specifications in the Design
and Construction Policy Chapter 53.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.035 SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   Each lot within the subdivision area shall be provided with a connection to
a subdivision sanitary sewer system, and shall be installed to comply with
specifications established by the Design and Construction Policy Chapter 53 and
the North Shore Sanitary District, and shall be connected to the public
sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.036 STORM SEWER SYSTEM.
   Every subdivision shall have storm sewers separate and independent of the
sanitary sewer system and with an adequate outlet or connection with the
existing storm system. Storm sewers and storm services for each lot shall be
provided in accordance with standard specifications in the Design and
Construction Policy Chapter 53.
      (a)   FLOODWAY/FLOOD PLAIN AREAS
   Filling of flood plain areas is discouraged and shall be minimized. Where
filling is permitted, compensatory flood storage shall be provided elsewhere on
the site as may be required in the regulations of the Lake County Watershed
Development Ordinance adopted by the Village of Winthrop Harbor.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.037 GRADING.
   (A)   Grading of all lots and streets within the village shall be
accomplished in accordance with standards and specifications developed by the
Village Engineer and on file with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The Developer shall be responsible for mass grading of the entire
subdivision. Upon excavation of any basement, the spoil materials shall be
stockpiled on the lot and re-spread after back-filling to within four inches of
finished grade for said lot to accommodate topsoil.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.038 DRAINAGE PLAN.
   Prior to the approval by the village authorities of the final plat of
subdivision, the owner shall have prepared an overall drainage plan of the area
covered by the subdivision plat on which is indicated the proposed method of
disposing of storm water from the lots and blocks in the area. The plan shall
indicate the approximate size and location of each home to be constructed on
each lot, the foundation or first floor elevation, the elevation of the
proposed pavement and sidewalk, and the elevation of the finished grade at each
corner of each lot. The plan shall also indicate the manner in which storm
water runoff is to discharge from back lot line locations to the proposed
pavement or storm sewer system.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.039 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   All public utility lines for telephone and electric services shall be
placed in rear line easements, 24 inch cover minimum and entirely underground
in residential subdivisions.
   (B)   Where telephone and electric service lines are placed underground
entirely throughout a subdivided area, said conduits or cables shall be placed
within easements a 24 inch cover minimum, or dedicated public ways in a manner
which will not conflict with other underground services. Further, all
transformer boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to
the public or in drainage swales of low areas.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.040 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION POLICY FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Table of Contents
   1.00   General requirements for construction plans
   2.00   General roadway requirements
   3.00   General storm sewer requirements
   4.00   General sanitary sewer requirements
   5.00   General water system requirements
   6.00   General site grading requirements
   7.00   General street lighting requirements
   8.00   General detention/retention pond requirements
   9.00   Miscellaneous requirements
   10.00   General review and inspection requirements
   Purpose
   The purpose of these design and construction standards for public
improvements is to provide for uniform and consistent development throughout
the village and to allow for a standard approach that will expedite the review
process and facilitate construction.
   The engineering and construction standards outlined herein pertain to the
design and construction of all public improvements whether the improvements are
part of a new subdivision, a planned development, a special assessment project,
or a particular parcel of property.
   The finished work shall conform closely to these standards and non-
conflicting provisions of the “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction” adopted by the Illinois Department of Transportation and “The
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois”
prepared by the Illinois Society of Professional Engineers, Consulting
Engineers Council of Illinois, Illinois Municipal League and the Associated
General Contractors of Illinois, as subsequently amended to the date of the
accompanying plans.
1.00 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   1.01   Plan symbols and abbreviations. All symbols and abbreviations used
for engineering drawings shall be clearly identified on the plans. In general,
existing features shall be indicated by dashed or thin lines, proposed
improvements shall be indicated by heavier solid lines.
   1.02   Plan scales.
      0.021   Plan and profile sheets
 
Horizontal Vertical
1" = 10'   1"   = 1'
1" = 20'   Recommended   1"   = 2'
1" = 30'   1"   = 3'
1" = 40'   1"   = 4'
 
      0.022   Street cross-sections
 
Horizontal Vertical
1" = 10'   1" = 5'
1" = 5'    1" = 4'
1" = 4'  1" = 2'
 
      0.023   General layout sheet
            1" = 100'
   1.03   Miscellaneous requirements.
      0.031   All documents submitted for review shall be prepared under the
supervision and shall bear a seal and signature of an Illinois Registered
Professional Engineer.
      0.032   Plans shall be on 24 inch x 36 inch sheets. Each submittal shall
include the following:
         A.   Title sheet with the name of the project, name and address of
owner and engineer, location map, index of sheets, legend, benchmark
description(s) (all elevations and contours shall be on U.S.G.S. datum).
         B.   A general layout sheet shall show existing and proposed
improvements.
            1.   Benchmark near the actual location with accurate description
(U.S.G.S. datum).
         C.   Plan and profile sheets:
            1.   North arrow and scale.
            2.   Centerline of pavements, sewer and water main elevations at 50
foot intervals.
            3.   Horizontal centerline curve data.
            4.   Vertical centerline curve elevations at 25 foot (maximum)
interval.
            5.   Description of water main and sewer as to size, material,
length of run, and gradient.
            6.   Rim and invert elevations of structures.
         D.   Standard details of streets, curbs and gutters, manholes, catch
basins, inlets, valves and vaults, hydrants, trenches, service connections and
all special details.
         E.   Grading plans shall be at a minimum scale of 1" = 50'. A detailed
grading plan shall show grades at ALL LOT CORNERS, between lots, summits, low
points, swales, percent slopes to provide a detailed guidance for site and lot
grading.
         F.   Specifications and contract documents covering the proposed
improvements shall be bound 8½ inch x 11 inch sheets.
         G.   Prior to the village accepting any improvements, “As-Built”
drawings shall be submitted to the Village Engineer and Supt. of Public Works
for approval showing ONLY the location of all improvements as constructed as
well as ties to the ends of all service connections and shall be signed by a
registered engineer.
2.00 GENERAL ROADWAY REQUIREMENTS.
   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets
shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to
topographic conditions, and to public convenience and safety.
   2.01   Pavement types.   
 
Arterial Street              Non-Arterial Streets
Base Surface                 Base Surface
   8" Portland Cement        7" Portland Cement
   Concrete-*Section         Concrete-*Section
   420 with integral         420 with integral
   type curbs                type curbs
or                           or
                                5" Bituminous
   6" Bituminous             aggregate mixture
   Base Course               (MS 1500) min 2"
   (MS 1500)                 Bituminous concrete
   2" Bituminous             binder course,
   bindercourse, 1½"        1½" bituminous
   bituminous surface cour   concrete surface
   CL - I*Section 406        course CL - I*
                                Section 406
 
   *Reference to Standard Specifications Road and Bridge Construction
         Note: No recycled specifications.
   All Portland cement concrete pavement shall have two applications of boiled
linseed oil mixture, regardless of the season, as per Para 48 of the state
specifications.
   The I-11 bituminous surface shall be constructed in two operations. The
binder course shall be constructed immediately after completion of the base
course. The surface course shall be constructed one year after completion of
the binder course and only after all base course and binder failures are
repaired.
   2.02   The following are the minimum pavement widths from back of curb;
pavements shall be designed by I.D.O.T. methodology, the minimum structural
number shall be as indicated.
 
            Pavement      
            *Width Crown Structural Number

Arterial
Secondary   40'    5"    3.08
Minor       32'    4"    3.08
Collector   26'    3"    3.08
Residential
Primary     26'    3"    3.08
Secondary   26'    2.5"  2.75
Cul-de-sac  42'    8"    2.75
 
      *   All roadways shall have an 11" minimum lane width
      Note:   Prior to placing any pavement material, the entire subgrade shall
be inspected by the Village Engineer or a representative appointed by him and
“proof rolled” using a loaded dump truck minimum 14 ton (NET) weight. The
Village Engineer shall make the determination as to the adequacy of the
subgrade. All areas noted as deficient shall be repaired and retested and
approved prior to placing pavement materials. As an alternative subgrade test,
the prepared subgrade shall be sampled and laboratory tested at 100 foot
intervals in accordance with ASTM D-1557. The subgrade shall be tested in
accordance with ASTM D-1556 at the same location of the sampling. The Village
Engineer may randomly select additional locations for sampling and testing. The
number of test locations selected by the Village Engineer shall not exceed 10%
of the required number of tests (but at least three). All test results shall
exceed 95% of the maximum density (ASTM D-1557). Any test result less than 95%
shall require two additional samples and test to define the limits of the
poorly compacted soil. The developer shall continue to repair, recompact,
sample and test the subgrade until all test results indicate the subgrade
exceeds 95% of the maximum density.
   2.03   Minimum horizontal curve radii.
      Arterial         500'
      Non-Arterial      300'
   2.04   Centerline gradient.
                        Minimum                  Maximum
         Arterial               1%                      4%
      Non-Arterial            0.5%                   5%
      Note:   Vertical parabolic curves required where algebraic difference of
gradients exceeds 1.0%. Minimum length of vertical curve shall be 50 times the
algebraic difference of gradients for residential streets and 100 times the
algebraic difference of gradients for collector and arterial streets,
notwithstanding the above, the minimum difference in elevation at 20 foot
interval along the parabolic curve shall not be less than 0.10 feet. To achieve
this difference, the designer shall be allowed to adjust the high or low point
elevation to achieve the minimum difference in elevation.
   2.05   All streets shall be designed using a storm water relief plan; in
conjunction with the grading plan, no pavement low point shall allow water to
accumulate to a depth greater than 1 foot in the event of storm sewer failure.
   2.06   Miscellaneous.
      0.01   Curb and gutter shall be I.D.O.T. Portland cement concrete
combination concrete curb and gutter Type B-6.12 with sawcut contraction joints
at 20 foot intervals and two #4 rebars 10 feet long over all trenches.
      0.02   Portland cement concrete sidewalk shall be 5 feet (minimum) wide
and 5 inches thick (7" thick with 6"x 6" #6 wire mesh at all driveways)
      0.03   All handicapped accessibility shall conform to Illinois
Administrative Code (latest edition) commonly known at the American
Disabilities Act.
3.00 GENERAL STORM SEWER REQUIREMENTS.
   A complete system of storm sewers shall be constructed to drain the
development and any contiguous drainage areas. At the time of submittal of the
construction plans, the developer shall submit two copies of the storm drainage
computations. The capacity of receiving sewers or drainage ways must be
addressed in the design of the storm sewer system.
   3.01   General design.
      0.01   The rational method shall be employed when computing storm run-
off. A one-hour rainfall at a 10 year storm frequency shall be used for storm
sewer design purposes.
      0.02   Storm sewers shall be designed to flow full, using Manning's
formula with a coefficient of roughness of 0.013 and a minimum velocity of 2.5
feet per second and a maximum velocity not to exceed 12 feet per second.
      0.03   Manholes shall be constructed at all places in sewer lines where
there is a change in direction, pipe size, gradient of such line, or at 300
foot maximum intervals.
      0.04   All inlets or catch basins shall be located to drain a maximum of
400 feet of street. Where there is less than 400 feet between the high and low
points in a street, double inlets and catch basins shall be installed at the
low point. Depressed roadway crown shall not be permitted.
      0.05   No surface drainage shall cross intersections.
      0.06   Trench Backfill (FA-6) shall be installed in all trenches under
existing or proposed pavement, sidewalks and driveways.
      0.07   Minimum 2 feet of cover shall be required over all storm sewers.
      0.08   Inlets shall be directed to catch basins.
      0.09   No storm sewers may be installed curvilinear.
      0.010   Storm sewers must be installed using a laser beam method or
approved equal to obtain proper vertical and horizontal alignment.
   3.02   Material.
      0.01   Conduit shall meet the requirements of Section 511 of the I.D.O.T.
standards, installation shall meet manufacturer's requirements.
      0.02   Structures:
         A.   Shall be precast reinforced concrete meeting the requirements of
ASTM C478 with eccentric cones or “flat tops”.
         B.   Manholes and catch basins shall be minimum 4' diameter; inlets
shall be minimum 2' diameter.
         C.   Adjusting rings shall be reinforced concrete.
         D.   All brick used for patching shall be solid concrete.
         E.   Preformed bituminous gaskets or bituminous mastic shall be placed
at all joints.
         F.   Bedding material shall be granular material and shall be placed
in accordance with the conduit manufacturer's recommendation taking into
account the type of material and depth of construction. At a minimum, 4 inches
of bedding shall be placed under the pipe and up to one half the diameter of
the pipe.
      0.03   Storm sewers shall be located on the north or west parkway of the
street approximately 6 feet behind the curb.
      0.04   No open ditches shall be allowed, side and rear yard swales shall
not exceed 400 lineal feet.
      0.05   Storm sewers shall be a minimum 12 inch diameter; inlet
connections may be minimum 10 inch diameter.
   3.03   House services.
      0.01   A storm service shall be installed at each lot at the time the
storm sewer is installed. The service shall be installed 10 feet from the
property corner at the lowest point of the storm sewer in front of each lot.
      0.02   The storm service shall extend to the property line or outside
limit of easements abutting the property line.
      0.03   Minimum diameter shall be 6 inch.
      0.04   Minimum gradient shall be 1%.
      0.05   The connection at the storm sewer shall be made by use of a
manufactured saddle or tee for storm sewers 15" or less, or for storm sewers
larger than 15" by coring an opening in the storm sewer. The service shall
extend to the inside wall of the sewer. The annulus of the opening shall be
filled with hydraulic cement to provide a watertight patch.
      0.06   The connection and end of the service shall be accurately shown on
the record drawings. The connection shall be dimensioned from the nearest
downstream manhole. The end of the service shall be located with two ties from
readily identifiable surface features. In addition, at the time of
construction, a 2" x 4" wooden post, painted green, shall be installed plumb
from 2' above the end of the service to 3' above finished grade.
      0.07   A watertight plug shall be installed in the end of each service.
4.00 GENERAL SANITARY SEWER REQUIREMENTS.
   A complete system of sanitary sewers shall be constructed throughout the
development to provide a sanitary service connection to each lot within the
limits of the property lines and allow for the extension of the sewer system to
adjacent areas.
   4.01   General requirements.
      0.01   Manholes shall be constructed at all places in sewer lines where
there is a change in direction, pipe size, gradient, or at 300 foot maximum
intervals.
      0.02   Minimum pipe diameter shall be 8 inches.
      0.03   Sanitary sewers shall be installed on the north or west parkway of
the street on a straight line between manholes.
      0.04   Trench Backfill (FA-6) shall be installed in all trenches under
all proposed or existing pavements, sidewalks and driveways.
      0.05   Minimum depth of cover shall be 8 ft. When unavoidable sewers with
less than eight feet of cover shall be clearly identified on the appropriate
plan and profile sheet and general layout sheet.
      0.06   A prefabricated wye shall be installed at the center of each lot
at the time the sewer is constructed (ductile iron tees will be allowed only
when the sewer is ductile iron pipe).
      0.07   Sanitary sewers must be installed using a laser beam method or
approved equal to obtain proper vertical and horizontal alignment.
   4.02   Conduit.
      0.01   At a minimum, PVC, SDR26 (ASTM 3034) with a minimum cell
classification 12454 shall be installed. Other materials shall be allowed for
special applications such as significant variations in depth or proximity to
other improvements. Each location where alternate materials are proposed shall
be clearly identified on the plan and profile and key sheet and the alternate
material shall be completely described in the specifications (to include method
of joining dissimilar pipe and gasket material)
      0.02   Bedding shall be compacted (CA-6) crushed gravel and shall extend
from a minimum of 6 inches below the pipe to 12 inches above the pipe the full
width of the trench excavation in accordance with NSSD regulations.
   4.03   Manholes.
      0.01   Minimum 4 foot diameter precast reinforced concrete (with integral
base and precast bench preferred) meeting the requirements of ASTM C478 with
eccentric cones. Joining material shall be a bituminous mastic sealer.
      0.02   Steps shall have a non-corrosive coating and shall not be located
over mainline sewer.
      0.03   Where conduit enters a manhole, a neoprenetype watertight gasket,
with stainless steel bands, shall be integrally cast into the manhole wall.
      0.04   All adjustments shall be with precast reinforced concrete rings.
      0.05   Frames and lids shall be “self sealing” with a machined surface,
O-ring gasket, and concealed pick-hole. The word “SANITARY” shall be cast into
the lid.
   4.04   House services.
      0.01   A sanitary service shall be installed at the center of each lot at
the time the sanitary sewer is installed.
      0.02   The sanitary service shall extend to the property line or outside
limit of easements abutting the property line.
      0.03   Minimum diameter shall be 6 inches.
      0.04   Minimum gradient shall be 1%.
      0.05   Each saddle connection must be inspected by the Village Engineer
prior to backfilling.
      0.06   Service risers shall be installed on all wyes that are greater
than 12 feet deep.
      0.07   A watertight plug shall be installed in the end of the service.
      0.08   The wye connection and end of the service shall be accurately
shown on the “As-Built” drawings. The wye shall be dimensioned from the
downstream manhole, two ties from readily identifiable surface features shall
be used to locate the end of the service. In addition, at the time of
construction, a 2" x 4" wooden post, painted red, shall be installed plumb from
2 feet above the end of the service to three feet above finished grade.
   4.05   Testing.
      0.01   All leakage tests and televising shall conform to the requirements
of the North Shore Sanitary District.
      0.02   Deflection tests shall conform to the requirements of “Standard
Specifications for Sewer and Water Main Construction in Illinois” and the NSSD.
5.00 GENERAL WATER SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   A complete system of water mains shall be constructed throughout the
development, sized to permit future extension of the village water system to
adjacent areas.
   5.01   General.
      0.01   The water system shall be designed so that it will be circulating.
"Dead ends" are strongly discouraged.
      0.02   Water mains shall not be less than eight inches in diameter.
      0.03   All water mains shall be constructed in the south or east parkway
of the street approximately 6 feet behind the curb.
      0.04   The depth between finished grade and top of the water main shall
not be less than 5.5 feet.
      0.05   Connections to the existing system shall be made by maintaining
pressure in the existing system.
      0.06   Trench backfill (FA-6) shall be installed in all trenches under
all existing or proposed pavement, sidewalks and driveways.
      0.07   Valves and fire hydrants shall be installed at the end of all
extensions.
   5.02   Material.
      0.01   Pipe.
         A.   Ductile iron pipe Class 52, (AWWA C-151) with elastomeric gasket
joints (AWWA F-477) and cement mortar lining (AWWA C-114).
         B.   Polyvinyl chloride, SDR18 water main quality pipe, (AWWA C-900)
with integral bell and elastormeric gasket.
      0.02   Fire hydrants shall be Mueller Centurian A-423 or CLOW F 2500 with
epoxy coated 6" mechanical by mechanical joint valve (AWWA C-509) attached, and
adjustable cast-iron valve box. Hydrants shall be placed at least every 300
intervals. Blocking is required, with retainer glands, drain field shall be
minimum .050 C.Y. #8 washed stone.
      0.03   Line valves shall be epoxy coated with mechanical by mechanical
joint ends of the appropriate size to match the water main Mueller superseal
resilient wedge A 2370, meeting the requirements of (AWWA C-509), and shall be
installed at intervals of not more than 1000 feet, street intersections, and
future extension of the water main so as to provide for a maximum (3) valve
shut off to isolate any point in the system.
      0.04   Precast concrete vaults with cast iron frame and lid shall be
placed at all valves at intersections, adjustable cast-iron valve boxes may be
installed on intermediate line valves.
      0.05   Fittings shall be compact cement lined ductile iron with
mechanical joints (AWWA C-110). Blocking/retainer glands shall be required at
all fittings.
   5.03   House service.
      0.01   A water service shall be installed at the center of each lot
extending to the property line or outside edge of utility easements at the time
the water main is installed but after successful hydrostatic pressure testing
and disinfection of the water main.
      0.02   Material.
         A.   Minimum 1 inch diameter Type "K" copper.
         B.   Mueller H-15000 corporation stop.
         C.   Mueller H-15154 curb valves (screw type).
         D.   Minneapolis type roundway box, Mueller H10302, 1½ inch diameter,
set one foot from the inside edge of the sidewalk flush with finished grade or
with H 10452 for locations where the box lies in a driveway.
         E.   Mueller H13000, H16000 series brass service saddle shall be used
for connecting the corporation stop to PVC water main.
   5.04   Hydrostatic pressure test shall conform to Section 41-2.12 of the
“Standard Specifications for Water Sewer Main Construction in Illinois”, latest
edition.
   5.05   Disinfection of water main shall conform to Section 41-2.13 of the
“Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois”,
latest edition. The testing laboratory shall send the originals of all tests
directly to the village.
   5.06   An approved detector tape or solid #6 AWG bare copper wire shall be
installed adjacent to PVC water main. This tape or wire shall extend through
all vaults and to all hydrants. Prior to final acceptance of the water system
improvements, the tape or wire shall be tested for continuity.
6.00 GENERAL SITE GRADING PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   6.01   General requirements.
      0.01   Existing topograph at maximum two foot contour intervals extending
at least 100 feet beyond the boundary of the development shall be shown.
      0.02   Proposed finished elevation at all lot corners and midpoint of
side yard property lines, swale grades, summits, and lowpoints.
      0.03   Proposed top of foundation elevation and proposed driveway
gradient (% slope) shall be indicated.
      0.04   Direction of flow of surface water and % slope to storm inlets and
catch basins.
      0.05   Centerline pavement and right-of-way elevations at 50 foot
intervals.
   6.02   Erosion control program meeting the requirements of Lake County
Watershed Development Ordinance adopted by the village shall be required to be
submitted for approval.
   6.03   Areas of significant natural resources to include regulatory
floodplain (base flood elevations shall be shown), wetlands, and natural
prairie or timber land shall be indicated on the plan. Additional plans or
reports may be required should resource management or mitigation be required.
   6.04   Record drawings shall include finished elevation (See 6.01)
7.00 GENERAL STREET LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Street lights shall be installed to serve all properties within the
development. Improvements shall include all poles, bases, luminaries, cable,
conduit, controllers, handholes, and other miscellaneous work and equipment
necessary for an integrated street light system.
   7.01   The street light electric system shall be designed to the
requirements of the local utility company. Prior to final approval, the
developer shall provide written documentation that the utility company has
approved the street light layout and electric plan and that the utility agrees
to maintain the street light system.
   7.02   There shall be one standard street light at each intersection,
interior of each cul-de-sac and not to exceed 300 foot intervals in residential
areas. Each street light shall be indicated on the key map.
   7.03   All cable shall be installed in conduit, at a depth of 24" to 30".
   7.04   Conduit shall be installed in sleeves under all pavement.
8.00 GENERAL DETENTION/RETENTION POND REQUIREMENTS.
   8.01   Detention or retention facilities shall be required for all
developments regardless of size of the development except that the Village
Engineer may waive this requirement for very small developments when it is
determined that waiving the requirements will not adversely affect downstream
properties.
   8.02   The calculations for detention or retention requirements shall be
based on the practice of the Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance. The
release rate for the detention or retention shall be as follows:
         2 year storm - 0.04 CFS/Acre
         100 year storm - 0.15 CFS/Acre
   8.03   Retention ponds shall always contain water with a surface area, at
normal pool elevation, greater than one acre. 25% of the surface area must be
at least 10 feet deep.
   8.04   Detention ponds shall normally be dry and the gradient for grassed
surfaces shall be 1% minimum. Paved flowlines at a flatter gradient may be
utilized upon approval of the Village Engineer. Erosion protection shall be
provided at inlet and outlet structures.
   8.05   Twenty (20) foot wide access and maintenance easements shall be
provided to and around all detention/retention ponds.
   8.06   In retention areas, a safety ledge shall be constructed around the
perimeter of the basin. The ledge shall be 8' wide and 2' deep (measuring from
the normal water level elevations, NWL) . Also a method of aeration must be
supplied, along with a source of water to maintain the NWL.
9.00 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   9.01   All public utility lines for telephone and electric services shall be
placed underground in rear and side yard easements, or in dedicated right-of-
way. These services shall be placed in such a manner which will not conflict
with other underground services. Transformer or junction boxes shall be located
so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
   9.02   Landscaping.
      0.01   All improved areas within the dedicated streets, utility
easements, or other public use areas shall be graded and seeded in an approved
manner.
      0.02   Trees shall be planted within the right-of-way at 40 foot
intervals. A planting schedule shall be submitted for approval. Trees shall not
be of a brittle wood variety, subject to attack by insects or diseases, or
fruit bearing. Only the following species of trees are allowed:
            A.   Linden
               1.   American
               2.   Redmond
               3.   Greenspire
            B.   Oak
               1.   Red
               2.   Burr
               3.   White
            C.   Maple
               1.   Sugar
               2.   King Crimson
               3.   Red
               4.   Cleveland
               5.   Emerald Luster
               6.   Red Sunset
            D.   Ash
               1.   White
               2.   Green
               3.   Emerald (Seedless)
            E.   Other
               1.   Honey Locust
               2.   Ginkgo
      0.03   All trees shall be of a diameter of not less than 2½ inches
(measured 1 foot above the top of the root ball) and the developer shall
furnish certification that said trees are free from disease under the plant
inspection Department of Standards. The trees shall be transplanted stock.
      0.04   The developer shall warrantee all trees for one year date of final
acceptance of the subdivision improvements.
   9.03   The developer shall purchase and install, throughout the development,
all street and information signs and traffic control devices of such number,
type and size as shall have been approved by the Village Engineer and
Superintendent of Public Works.
      0.01   Street signs shall be erected at each intersection to identify
each street. Street names shall be as approved on the final plat.
      0.02   Traffic control devices shall conform to the “Illinois Supplement
to the National Manual on Traffic Control Devices”, latest edition.
      0.03   Information signs shall include such signage as hydrants, parking
restrictions and cross- walk signs.
   9.04   The developer shall submit a list of contractors (including
subcontractors) prior to beginning public improvements. The developer shall not
employ any contractor against whom the village has reasonable objection based
upon past performance on public improvement work in the village.
10.00 GENERAL REVIEW AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   10.01   Plan review fees.
      0.01   At the time of submission of a preliminary subdivision plat and
plans for review, the developer shall deposit a fee based on the estimated
costs for the construction of public improvements to cover the cost of
Engineer's fees for examining and reviewing plans, specifications, contracts,
bonds, insurance and other documents in connection with such public
improvement. The estimated cost of construction shall be prepared by a
Registered Engineer based upon a unit price schedule of values and submitted
with the request for review. The fee will be charged in accordance with the
current fee schedule on file with the Village.
   10.02   Inspection fees.
      0.01   Inspection fees shall be based upon the final estimated
construction costs approved by the Village Engineer. Said fee shall be charged
in accordance with the current fee schedule on file with the Village.
      0.02   Inspection fees shall be collected at the time the plans have been
approved. Construction cannot begin until the inspection fees have been
deposited with the Village Treasurer. The funds will be placed in a non-
interest bearing escrow and any excess funds will be returned to the developer
upon completion of the project.
      0.03   The amount of the inspection fees may be increased at any time if,
in the determination of the Village Engineer, the inspection costs will exceed
the established fee due to poor contractor performance, contract overruns, an
unusual project requiring more than normal inspection time, or excessive plan
review costs that exceeded the established plan review fees.
   10.03   Quality control, laboratory analysis, sampling and testing shall be
provided by an approved testing laboratory as requested by the Village
Engineer. The cost for this work shall be charged to the developer or builder.
   10.04   An inspector shall be required during construction as directed by
the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer shall be notified at least 24 hours
prior to starting construction and after a 48 hour delay.
   10.05   It may be necessary to make emergency interim corrections, during
construction of improvements. The village shall notify the developer of needed
corrections, and it shall be the responsibility of the developer to see that
corrections are made within 24 hours of notification. If the corrections are
not accomplished during this period, the village may make the corrections and
charge all costs to the developer or builder.
   10.06   Upon completion of the improvements, the Village Engineer and
superintendent of Public Works shall meet with contractors and the developer.
All improvements shall be thoroughly inspected and deficiencies noted. Upon
correction of these items and when the developer delivers to the Village an
irrevocable letter of credit valid for 12 months or a cash deposit with a value
equal to 5% of the final construction costs for the maintenance of all
improvements, record drawings and contractor's final affidavits, the Village
Engineer and Superintendent of Public Works will recommend acceptance of the
improvements to the Village Board of Trustees.
   10.07   Within 12 months after the improvements have been accepted by the
Village Board of Trustees, a final inspection shall be made by the Village
Engineer and Superintendent of Public Works. The inspection shall include all
improvements. Upon correction of any defects, the balance of any warranties or
deposits shall be returned to the developer and further maintenance shall
become the responsibility of the Village.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are expressly
repealed.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.041 SUBDIVISIONS OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS.
   Where the proposed subdivision is located outside the village boundaries,
the subdivider shall meet all the requirements of this chapter, including the
installation of improvements.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.042 APPROVAL AND ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Where a subdivider, developer, or builder plans for the development of
a subdivision within the corporate limits of the village, the subdivider,
developer, or builder shall before submitting the final plat for approval, make
and submit provisions for installation and construction required by §§ 152.020
through
152.040 to the Village Engineer and after the Village Engineer's review and
approval, submit provisions to the President and Board of Trustees of the
village for their approval.
   (B)   When all land improvements required by this chapter have been
installed in conformance with the approved engineering plans and
specifications, and when “as built” plans and operating permits for sanitary
sewer and water main have been submitted to the Public Works Department, the
Village Engineer shall submit a certificate to that effect to the Village
Board. The Village Board may then enact a resolution accepting said
improvements as having been completed before issuance of certificate of
occupancy.
   (C)   Upon acceptance by the Village Board of the public improvements
required by this chapter, the Village Board, with the recommendation of the
Village Engineer and Supt. of Public Works, shall permit the release of those
funds deposited to cover public improvements which has been installed, except
that 5% of the total cost of all public improvements or $2,000, whichever is
greater, shall be retained by the village for 12 months after final acceptance
of the improvements by the village. Any latent defect which occurs in the
installed public improvements will be repaired by the village and the cost
thereof deducted from the cash deposit made with the village as provided
herein. Funds remaining after 12 months shall be released upon approval of the
Village Board.
   (D)   All improvements, when completed and accepted by the appropriate
authority, shall become the property of the village or appropriate authority.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.043 INSPECTION COSTS.
   During the course of construction at such times as the Village President and
Village Engineer deem necessary the subdivider, developer, or builder will pay
the actual cost of the inspection up to and including the date of billing. This
fee shall be determined as to the actual cost to the village of inspectors,
engineers, and other necessary parties to insure satisfactory work; and the
cost shall be based upon a reasonable charge for the services rendered.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.044 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permits shall be issued providing for the improvement of any lot
in said subdivision until there has been filed with Building Commissioner a
certified copy of said plat of subdivision as recorded in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds. Nor shall a building permit be issued for the improvement of
any lot until the plan and specifications for the public improvements have been
approved by the president and Board of Trustees and until cash bond approved by
the Village Board as provided for this chapter is posted with the village, nor
until a plot plan prepared or a plat of survey has been filed with the Building
Commissioner.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
COST RECAPTURE
§ 152.046 SEWER AND WATER.
   (A)   A property owner, hereinafter sometimes referred to as “licensee” with
the approval of the village, shall be entitled to construct public
improvements, sanitary sewer, and roadway extensions benefiting not only the
property owner making application but other property owners benefited by said
construction, and said property owner shall be entitled to recapture that
portion expended for the benefit of other property owners provided an agreement
is executed between the village and the property owner which includes
provisions covering the following items:
      (1)   Date of commencement and date of completion.
      (2)   Legal descriptions of the properties benefited specifying which
have and have not contributed to the costs.
      (3)   Detailed engineered plans and specifications showing the exact
locations of mains and/or extensions.
      (4)   Construction shall be in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the Village Engineer and subject to his inspection.
      (5)   The completed construction shall be deeded to the village upon
completion of the work.
      (6)   Licensee shall be responsible for all repairs and maintenance for
one year following the completion of the extension and bear the costs of the
same during said period.
      (7)   Licensee shall file with the Village Clerk suitable evidence that
the village is protected by surety bond or by suitable liability insurance
against all claims for personal injuries and property damage.
      (8)   Provisions for disposition of amounts recaptured.
      (9)   Application for recapture must be on file with the Village Clerk
within one year after acceptance of public improvements.
      (10) All recapture ordinances must be renewed every five years after
initial date of acceptance.
   (B)   Recapture for all public improvements shall be in accordance with
current fee schedule.
   (C)   All funds collected by the village for the benefited properties shall
be promptly paid to the licensees up to the amount to be reimbursed. Additional
funds collected shall accrue to the Sewer and Water (or General) Fund.
   (D)   The front footage is determined by the width of the side of the lot,
as recorded, which the house faces. In no event is this section to be construed
as obligating the village to construct public improvements in areas not now
served where the public improvements recaptured herein above will not
adequately reimburse the village of the cost of such construction.
   (E)   Additional charges; payment.
      (1)   The sums herein provided to be paid as sanitary sewer property
charges, sanitary sewage tap-on fees, water property charges, water tap-on
fees, and stub-in fees shall be in addition to and exclusive of all other
charges required for connection with public sewer/water mains and fixed by
ordinance.
      (2)   All fees and charges described above shall be paid in full prior to
the issuance of any permits and prior to making connection to any sewer/water
mains. All fees and charges shall be paid to the "Village of Winthrop Harbor".
   (F)   The property owner who has previously paid in full the front footage
charge for public improvements, shall be allowed a footage credit up to, but
not to exceed 135 feet for public improvements when constructed on the second
side of his property.
      (1)   This credit shall be calculated on a footage basis rather than a
monetary value as public improvements frontage rates change from time to time.
Further, frontage credit allowed on the second side of property shall not
exceed the number of feet paid for under the first improvement.
      (2)   In the event of subsequent subdivision, the credit shall only apply
to the new corner lot. Undeveloped non-corner lots created by such subdivision
shall be charged, in full, the front footage charge for public improvements.
      (3)   Credit will only be given for exactly the same improvement.
      (4)   This section shall in no way be construed to eliminate all property
charges on the second side of a corner lot where improvements are made.
2003 S-12
      (5)   In no event is this section to be construed as obligating the
village to construct new improvements in areas not now served.
   (G)   The Village Clerk shall keep full and complete records with regard to
such properties, and the credit allowed to such.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 2002-O-49, passed 12-3-02)
RESUBDIVISION
§ 152.090 RESUBDIVISION IN LIEU OF VACATION.
   It shall not be necessary to vacate a plat, or part thereof, in order to
proceed with the resubdivision of said plat, or part thereof; provided, any
dedications to the public of roads or other public lands in the original
subdivision must be rededicated in the resubdivision; provided further, that
the resubdivision retain any easements or rights-of-way for public utilities
appearing in the original subdivision. Such resubdivision according to the
procedure and standards for subdivisions required proposed to vacate any roads
or other public grounds or if the rights of public utilities in any easements
or rights-of-way are proposed to be abridged, the plat must be vacated under
the procedures set forth in §§
152.101 through
152.105.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.091 EXISTING SUBDIVISIONS.
   Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided, and the subdivision plat shows one
or more lots containing more than one acre of land, and indications are that
such lots will eventually be resubdivided into smaller building sites, the
village may require that such parcel of land allow for the future opening of
roads and the ultimate extension of adjacent roads. Basements providing for the
future opening and extension of such roads may be made a requirement of the
plat.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
DEDICATIONS, EASEMENTS, AND RESERVATIONS
§ 152.095 AREAS REQUIRED TO BE DEDICATED.
   (A)   All roads created by a subdivision or resubdivision as dedicated to
the public are required to be dedicated. If a road is to be privately
maintained, such notation shall also appear on the plat. Privately maintained
roads, however, are discouraged, and a clear need for same shall be
demonstrated.
   (B)   Where a subdivision abuts on an existing road and the provisions of
this chapter or another governing agency require an additional width of right-
of-way, the subdivider shall dedicate same.
   (C)   Pedestrian ways bisecting long blocks, or wherever else located, shall
be dedicated to the public.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.096 [RESERVED]
§ 152.097 DEDICATION OF WATER AND SEWERAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   All community water supply and distribution facilities required and
constructed under the provisions of this chapter shall be dedicated to the
village.
   (B)   Developers will proceed in accordance with the master plan for sewer
and water in the village. In those instances where implementation of the master
plan will not begin in the immediate future, interim plans may be considered
provided they are in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan and an agreement is
executed with the village.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.098 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   Easements shall be provided for any overhead or underground utility service
including but not limited to sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water gas, telephone,
and electric service, the easements shall have a minimum width of ten feet.
Where it is intended that both overhead and underground utilities shall share
the same easement, additional width sufficient to avoid conflict shall be
provided. An easement shall be established along rear lot lines and such other
lot lines as are required to provide continuity of alignment throughout the
area to be served. A utility easement for the construction of the
aforementioned underground services may be included on all road rights-of-way.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.099 BUFFER ZONE.
   Planting strips or other buffer zones located between incompatible uses or
wherever required shall be shown as easements.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.100 RESERVATION.
   (A)   Whenever the area being subdivided embraces all of part of any lands
shown on the comprehensive plan for a road, school, forest preserve, or other
community facility or any public use, all land so designated shall be dedicated
or reserved for that proposed use, and it shall be reserved by the subdivider
for a period of not more than five years from the date of approval of the final
plat, during which time it shall be made available for sale to the public
agency concerned. If the sale price can not be agreed upon, the fair cash
market value of the property may be established by an appraiser acceptable to
all parties. The sale price shall be based on the fair cash market value of the
property as of the date of the filing of the first tentative plat.
   (B)   If the appropriate public agency having jurisdiction has not, within
five years of the approval of the final plat, acquired the site reserved for a
public use, the subdivider may use it for any purpose permitted by the
applicable regulations then in effect.
   (C)   The power to accept any dedications, easements, or any other real
property or rights for public use and maintenance in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be reserved exclusively to the village. The
right of refusal of any dedications, easements, reservations, or other rights
shall also be reserved to the village.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.101 VACATION.
   A petition shall be filed by the applicant of the proposed vacation with the
village.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.102 PETITION FORM AND CONTENT.
   (A)   A certified statement of the assessed valuation of all properties
surrounding a public right-of-way to be vacated shall be furnished.
   (B)   Eight copies of a certified plat or applicable part thereof bearing
the certificate of a surveyor shall be furnished. The plat shall show the
portion to be vacated outlined or shaded so that it may be readily identified.
There should also appear on the plat a legal description of the property to be
vacated as well as an area 200 feet beyond the boundary of that part to be
vacated.
   (C)   The following documents shall be required:
      (1)   Resolution of vacation;
      (2)   Deed of vacation;
      (3)   Two signed originals and six copies of the petition;
      (4)   Two signed originals and six copies of the County Clerk's
certificate.
   (D)   The County Clerk's certificate shall be in substantially the following
form:
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
               )SS
COUNTY OF LAKE   )
I,                              , County Clerk of Lake County, Illinois, do
hereby certify that there are no delinquent general taxes, and no redeemable
tax sales against any of the land included in the following described property:
(Description of subdivision or part of subdivision to be vacated or of lots
adjacent to road (alley) to be vacated) Given under my hand and seal of the
County, at Waukegan, Illinois, this          day of         A.D. 19    .
(SEAL)                                                         
                        COUNTY CLERK
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.103 NOTIFICATION.
   Notification of a petition of vacation shall be forwarded to the village, as
well as all public and private utility companies and all property owners and
other concerned parties as required by law.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.104 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Village Board shall hear all petitions for vacation.
   (B)   All vacations of plats and roads or parts thereof shall have a public
hearing and notice shall be published as provided by law.
   (C)   The Village Board shall prepare minutes of said hearing and shall make
a determination of its findings in writing.
   (D)   The Village Board shall make its decision in form of a motion. The
motion shall state either denial, approval, or approval in part.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.105 CONDITIONS UPON APPROVAL.
   (A)   Nothing contained herein nor in any required certificate, shall be
deemed in any way to limit the right or the authority of the village to vacate
any plat or part thereof or any right-of-way or easement or part thereof where
it finds that such vacation shall serve the public interest.
   (B)   The village may require the petitioner to furnish bond or an
irrevocable letter of credit in an amount sufficient to protect the village,
indemnifying it for any suit which may be filed for damages sustained as a
result of such vacation.
   (C)   Bonded contracts for the improvement of platted roads or alleys shall
be automatically canceled upon vacation of such platted roads or alleys.
   (D)   The vacation of any plat or part thereof, or right-of-way easement or
part thereof shall not be deemed to be a vacation of the rights of any public
utility where said public utility has installed its underground facilities
therein.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.110 ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS; COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS.
   All roadway improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the
"Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction in Illinois," latest
edition. The construction plans shall be submitted prior to final plat
approval.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
ROAD DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.115 ROAD WIDTHS.
   The following road widths shall be considered as the minimum requirements:
collector and local roads shall have a width of 22' feet of paving with a 3'
wide aggregate shoulder, 6" in thickness or an optional 4" thick aggregate
shoulder with 3" of topsoil and seed. (See typical section)
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.116 MINIMUM RADII.
   (A)   At the intersection of local roads with collector roads, the minimum
radii at the right-of-way lines shall be 25 feet. The minimum radius at the
pavement shall be 35 feet.
   (B)   At the intersection of all local roads, the minimum radii at the
right-of-way lines shall be 25 feet and the minimum radius at the pavement
shall be 25 feet.
   (C)   At the intersection of local roads with major arterials, all minimum
radii shall be as determined by the Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.117 INTERSECTIONS.
   The intersection of local roads with major arterials or collector roads
shall be limited to not more than one per quarter mile, unless topographic and
physical conditions require a lesser distance. At these intersections
acceleration and deceleration lanes will also be required as well as drainage
facilities. The standards to be used shall be provided by the maintaining
agency. All road intersections shall be at right angles (90°) unless unusual
topographic or other site conditions require a lesser angle. In no case shall
road intersections be less than 60 degrees. In all cases, road intersections
shall be laid out to best facilitate the safe flow of traffic. In no case shall
the junctions be set off less than 150 feet, measured from the centerline.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.118 CUL-DE-SACS.
   A cul-de-sac shall be provided at the end of a permanent dead-end road. It
shall not be more than 600 feet in length measured from the centerline of the
road of origin. Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus generally circular in
shape with a diameter of 120 feet and a center on or within 30 feet of the cul-
de-sac centerline. The pavement shall have a minimum diameter of 80 feet. Where
circumstances warrant, a T-turnaround may be approved by the village.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.119 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   Curbs and gutters shall be required along all roadways that shall be
hereafter planned, built or installed within the village unless the Village
Engineer shall certify that there exist unusual topographic, erosive or other
site-specific conditions which shall render the same impractical or unsound
based upon a reasonable degree of scientific and engineering certainty. All
roadways planned, built or installed within the village which connect to
existing roads served by ditches and shoulders shall be designed and engineered
to transition smoothly with the curbs, gutters and storm sewers in the new
roadway as may be directed by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 1999-O-21, passed 9-21-99)
§ 152.120 SEEDING.
   All earth surfaces disturbed by the construction operations shall be
fertilized, seeded, and mulched in accordance with the standard specifications.
Channelized swales, ditches, or slopes greater than 5 to 1 shall be staked with
an excelsior blanket or sod.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWER FACILITIES
§ 152.121 ON-SITE STORM WATER DETENTION.
   All subdivisions of five acres or larger shall have on-site storm water
detention facilities. These shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance, adopted by the village
requirements which best protect the property involved, in order to provide
detention for the 10 year and 100 year frequency storm on the developed site
with a maximum release rate 0.04 CFS/Acre (10 year) 0.15 CFS/Acre (100 year)
respectively.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.122 STORM SEWER FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Storm water drainage shall be accomplished through use of storm sewers
unless the Village Engineer shall certify that there exist unusual topographic,
erosive or other site-specific conditions which shall render the same
impractical or unsound based upon a reasonable degree of scientific and
engineering certainty. All drainage systems planned, built or installed within
the village which connect to existing ditches shall be designed and engineered
to transition smoothly with the storm sewers in the new installation as may be
directed by the Village Engineer.
    (B)   The design and construction of storm sewers shall be in conformance
with the standard specifications, the Highway Standards Manual, and the Highway
Design Manual. The storm sewer system shall be designed by the "rational
method" with self-cleaning velocities in conformance with the following
requirements:
      (1)   That part of the system which serves as main or terminal collector
shall be of sufficient capacity to carry the maximum discharge for a storm of
ten-year frequency. Overland relief routes must be provided to carry a 100 year
storm event.
      (2)   Those parts of the system which serve as lateral collectors, and
which can readily be augmented by future additions, shall be of sufficient
capacity to carry the maximum discharge for a storm of 10 year frequency.
      (3)   The Village Engineer shall select coefficients of runoff based on
the types of development anticipated in all parts of the watershed affecting
the drainage structure.
      (4)   The system shall include all necessary appurtenances such as
inlets, catch basins, and manholes as may be required for proper operation and
maintenance.
      (5)   In those cases where a subdivision is subject to storm water flow
from adjoining properties, provisions shall be made to provide for unrestricted
flow of that volume of water generated by the adjoining land for a storm of
100-year frequency. The subdivider may be permitted to substitute for the storm
sewer an open ditch. Such ditch shall comply with grading, seeding, sodding,
and easement specifications of this chapter or the county requirements,
whichever best protects all the property involved.
      (6)   All storm sewers shall be at least 12 inches in diameter except
that a ten-inch diameter may be used for connecting a single structure to a
manhole, or as directed by the Village Engineer.
      (7)   Special considerations shall be given to the avoidance of problems
which may arise from the concentration of storm water runoff unto adjacent
property which may crate a nuisance or maintenance difficulty. All storm
drainage shall be conducted or connected to an approved outfall and shall be
included in the subdivider's plans for storm water management in accordance
with the requirements of the county.
   (C)   Related structures.
      (1)   Catch basins, manholes, inlets, frames, and grates shall conform to
the Highway Standards Manual and the Standard Specifications.
      (2)   The spacing of pavement drainage structures shall be at maximum
intervals of 300 feet or as directed by the Village Engineer.
      (3)   No field tile shall be permitted to remain under the roadway. It
shall be replaced with load bearing tile and where feasible shall be
incorporated into the proposed storm sewer system.
      (4)   No field tile shall be permitted to remain under the roadway. It
shall be replaced with load bearing pipe and shall be incorporated into the
proposed storm sewer system.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 1999-O-21, passed 9-21-99)
§ 152.123 CULVERTS.
   The size and capacity of all drainage structures shall be computed using the
"rational method". The minimum length of culverts shall be at least equal to
the distance from edge of shoulder to edge of shoulder, plus six times the
vertical distance from the edge of shoulder to the flow line of the culvert
less end section length. No driveway culvert shall have a diameter of less than
12 inches, and no crossroad culvert shall have a diameter of less than 15
inches. In no case shall a driveway culvert be less than 24 feet in length.
Material in culverts which exceed 50 feet in length shall be limited to those
permitted for storm sewers as specified in the standard specifications, culvert
materials shall be circumferentially corrugated metal pipe minimum gauge 16,
riveted or as directed by the Supt. of Public Works. All crossroad culverts and
driveway culverts shall have end protection in the form of either concrete
headwalls or prefabricated end sections as follows:
   (A)   Single pipe culverts sizes 10" to 18" in diameter must have flared end
sections or cast-in-place reinforced concrete headwalls (IDOT Standard 1976)
   (B)   Single pipe culverts 21" and larger must have cast-in-place reinforced
concrete headwalls (IDOT Standard 1976, 1997 or 2093-1).
   (C)   Double pipe culverts sizes 10" and 12" may have flared end sections or
cast-in-place reinforced concrete headwalls (IDOT Standard 2102-1, adjust
dimensions as necessary)
   (D)   Double pipe culverts sizes 15" and larger must have cast-in-place
reinforced concrete headwalls (IDOT Standard 2102-1, 2103-1)
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.124 DITCHES.
   Roadside ditches and swales shall be designed based on a ten-year storm
frequency and ditch protection shall be provided as outlined in the Lake County
Watershed Development Ordinance adopted by the village.
   (A)   Ditches or swales shall be graded to obtain a longitudinal slope no
less than 1.50%.
   (B)   If 1.50% longitudinal slope is not obtainable, an alternative may be
underground storm sewer, pipe underdrain or french drain as directed by the
Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.125 BRIDGES.
   All bridges and culverts having a span of more than 20 feet shall be
designed by a registered structural engineer.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.126 DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   (A)   When a subdivision is traversed by a waterway or intermittent stream,
there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way
conforming substantially with the lines of same, and such easement shall
include an additional area at least 15 feet in width adjoining one edge of the
waterway or intermittent stream that measures 20 feet or less from bank to
bank. Where the distance from bank to bank is more than 20 feet such easement
shall include an additional area at least 15 feet in width adjoining both edges
of the waterway or intermittent stream. Where ditch drainage is used in lieu of
storm sewers, as may be permitted herein, the easement shall be of sufficient
width to allow future construction of a storm sewer main adequate to carry the
ultimate runoff of the watershed. Such easement shall be not less than 20 feet
in width.
   (B)   The 15 feet working area adjoining a stream shall be continuous
through the subdivision and adjoin existing easements. The area of any public
way immediately adjacent to the waterway or intermittent stream may be taken
into consideration in providing said 15-foot working area.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
PLATS
§ 152.130 FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Any person owning land within the limits of the village or within one
and one-half miles of such wishing to divide land in such a manner as to
require a plat of subdivision by the terms of this chapter or state law shall
file 22 copies of the owner's preliminary plat of proposed subdivision with the
Village Clerk for transmittal to the Planning and Zoning Board, Village Board
and Village Engineer.
   (B)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn to scale of not more than 100 feet
to the inch and contain the following:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision.
      (2)   Location by township, section and range, or by other legal
description.
      (3)   Names and addresses of the owner or developer and the designer of
the subdivision.
      (4)   Date of preparation and northpoint.
      (5)   The boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided accurately in
scale and bearing and the total approximate area encompassed thereby.
      (6)   The description and location of all survey monuments erected in the
subdivision shall be shown.
      (7)   The location, widths, and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights of way, parks and
other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, permanent
easements, and section and corporation lines within and adjacent to the tract.
      (8)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground
facilities within the tract and to a distance of at least 100 feet beyond the
tract boundaries indicating pipe sizes, grades, manholes, and exact location.
      (9)   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of un-subdivided or subdivided
land, showing ownership.
      (10) The location, widths and other dimensions of proposed streets,
alleys, easements, parks, and other spaces, building lines and lots.
      (11) Layout, numbers and dimensions of lots.
      (12) All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or
reserved for the use of all property owners with the purpose indicated.
      (13) Building set back lines, showing dimensions.
      (14) Easements for any and all public utilities where alleys are not
provided. Proper continuity for the utilities from block to block shall be
maintained.
      (15) Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet and high
water levels on all water courses, regulatory floodplain, wetlands, woodlands,
soil types and other significant natural resources.
   (C)   (1)   Where a proposed subdivision borders on or contains an existing
or proposed collector road or major arterial, the village requires that access
to such road be limited by one of the following means:
         (a)   All access to lots in the proposed subdivision shall be from
local roads within said subdivision.
         (b)   Subdividing the lots so they will back onto the collector road
or major arterial and front onto a parallel local road. No access shall be
provided from said collector road or major arterial, and screening may be
required in a strip of land along the rear property line of such lots.
         (c)   A marginal access road may be built which separates the
collector road or major arterial by a planting or grass strip and having access
thereto at suitable points.
      (2)   A reserve strip controlling access to a road will generally not be
permitted. In special cases where such a strip is requested, it may be
permitted only when dedicated and accepted by the village.
   (D)   Plan review fees in accordance with the design and construction
standards shall be paid at the time of submittal of the plat or plans. These
fees will be charged in accordance with current fee schedule.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall notify the Village Board of the filing of each
preliminary plat and its transmittal to the Planning and Zoning Board.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.131 APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The preliminary plat and documents in support thereof (including plan
review fees as required in the design and construction standards) shall be
filed at least 30 days before a regular Planning and Zoning Board meeting.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall provide for an adequate hearing
and shall notify the applicant by mail at least five days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Board may request or the Village Board may
require, during consideration of a preliminary plat, such changes or revisions
as are deemed necessary in the interest and needs of the community.
   (D)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall complete its review of the
application and forward its recommendation to the Village Board within 90 days
of the receipt by the Planning and Zoning Board of the last required item of
supporting data filed by the applicant unless such time is extended by mutual
consent of the applicant and Planning and Zoning Board.
      (1)   If such plat is disapproved by the Planning and Zoning Board, the
Planning and Zoning Board shall present, in writing, to the Village Board and
applicant, a statement setting forth the reasons for disapproval and specifying
with particularity the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to
the ordinances along with its recommendation to the Village Board to disapprove
the plat.
      (2)   If such plat is approved by the Planning and Zoning Board, the
Planning and Zoning Board shall present to the Village Board a written
statement that the Planning and Zoning Board recommends the Village Board
accept the plat.
      (3)   The Village Board shall accept or reject said plat within 30 days
after its next regular meeting after receiving the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Board unless such time is extended by mutual consent of the
applicant and Village Board.
   (E)   The approval of a preliminary plat is strictly tentative, involving
merely the general acceptability of the layout submitted. This approval shall
be effective for a maximum period of 12 months, unless, upon application of the
subdivider, developer, builder the Village Board grants an extension.
   (F)   The preliminary plat approved the Village Board must have designed
thereon the words "This is a preliminary plat, of no legal effect, and not to
be recorded".
   (G)   No plat will be approved for the subdivision of land which is subject
to periodic flooding or which contains extremely poor drainage facilities and
which would make adequate drainage of the streets impossible. However, if the
subdivider, developer, or builder agrees to make improvements which will, in
the opinion of the Village Engineer make the area completely safe for
residential occupancy and provide adequate street drainage, the preliminary
plat of the division may be approved.
   (H)   Two prints of the approved preliminary plat, signed by the Village
Engineer, Chairman of the Planning and Zoning Board, President of the Board of
Trustees, and the Village Clerk, shall be retained in the Village Clerk's
office, the office of the Village Engineer, and the office of the
Superintendent of Public Works, and one copy shall be kept in the files of the
Planning and Zoning Board. One signed copy is authorization for the subdivider,
developer, or builder to proceed with the preparation of plans and
specifications for the improvements required in theses rules and regulations
and with the preparation of the final plat.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.132 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The final plat shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name of subdivision.
      (2)   Location by township, section, and range, or by other legal
description.
      (3)   Scale one inch to 100 feet or less (shown graphically) and at the
same scale as the approved preliminary plan.
      (4)   Date of preparation and north point.
      (5)   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angles and
lineal dimensions.
      (6)   Exact location, width, and name of all streets within and adjoining
the plat, and the exact location and widths of all crosswalkways. Streets that
are obviously in alignment with others already existing and names shall bear
the names of the existing streets.
      (7)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines
or official monuments (not less than three), which shall be accurately
described in the plat.
      (8)   Municipal, township, county, or section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
      (9)   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings,
and lengths of all arcs.
      (10) All easements shall be provided for public utilities and
improvements. Easements shall be approved by the applicable public utility.
      (11) All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths.
      (12) Permanent monument or bench marks shall be placed at all corners and
at points of tangency or curve lines along the boundary of the subdivision.
      (13) Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with purposes indicated thereon, and of
any area to be reserved by deed or covenant for common uses of all property
owners. Where the tract or tracts dedicated or reserved for public use are not
within the corporate limits of the village, the certificate of dedication shall
provide that the future official act of annexation of such tract or tracts to
the village shall constitute a transfer of title to the village for such public
use.
      (14) Building setback lines accurately shown by dimension.
      (15) Protective covenants which meet with the approval of the Village
Board shall be referenced on the final plat.
      (16) An endorsement on the final plat by the County Clerk, that the Clerk
finds no delinquent general taxes, unpaid current general taxes, delinquent
special assessments, or unpaid current special assessments against the land
shown thereon.
      (17) A reference to the Recorder's Document Number of all restrictions
applicable to any part of said subdivision relating to building restrictions,
use restrictions, building lines, or otherwise.
      (18) A deed of dedication in substantially the form as follows:
"We, the undersigned, (name), do hereby certify that we are the owners of the
real estate shown and described herein and do hereby lay out, plat, and
subdivide said real estate in accordance with the within plat. This subdivision
shall be known and designated as (name) an addition to the Village of Winthrop
Harbor, Lake County. All streets, alleys, public open spaces shown and not
heretofore dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the public. Front and side yard
building setback lines are hereby established as shown on this plat, between
which lines and the property lines of the streets there shall be erected or
maintained no building or structure. There are strips of ground (Number) feet
in width, as shown on this plat and marked "Easement" reserved for the use of
public utilities for the installation of water and sewer mains, poles, ducts,
lines and wires, subject, at all times to the proper authorities and to the
easement herein reserved. No permanent or other structures are to be erected or
maintained upon said take their titles subject to the rights of the public
utilities and to the rights of the owners of other lots in this subdivision.
(Additional dedications and protective covenants or private restrictions would
be inserted here upon the subdivider's initiative or the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Board or Village Board; important provisions are those
specifying the use to be made of the property and, in the case of residential
use, the minimum habitable floor area, the dedication of public utilities,
public grounds, and other restrictions imposed by the subdivider, developer,
builder or required by the Village.)
The foregoing covenants (or restrictions) are to run with the land and shall be
binding on all parties and all persons claiming under then until January 1,
19    (twenty-one year period is suggested); at which time said covenants (or
restrictions) shall be automatically extended for successive periods of ten
years unless indicated otherwise by negative vote of a majority of the then
owners of the building sites covered by these covenants or restrictions, in
whole or in part, which said vote will be evidenced by a petition in writing
signed by the owners and duly recorded. Invalidation of any one of the
foregoing covenants or restrictions by judgment or court order shall in no way
affect any of the other various covenants or restrictions, which shall remain
in full force and effect.
The right to enforce these provisions by injunction together with the right to
cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof
erected or maintained in violation thereof, is hereby dedicated to the public,
and reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and
to heirs and assigns."
      WITNESS our Hands and Seals this     day of                  19    
                                                         
                                                         
                                                         
      State of Illinois
      County of Lake
Before me, the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared (Name), (Name), (Name) and each separately and severally
acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary
act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed.
      WITNESS my Hand and Notarial Seal this      day of                19   
                                                           
                                    Notary Public
      (19) All final plats shall carry the following certificates, as
applicable, in substantially the following form. All applicable certificates
shall be completed and signed prior to submission to the Village Planning and
Zoning Board for approval.
         (a)   County Clerk's Certificate:
I                                     , County Clerk of Lake County, Illinois,
do hereby certify that there are no delinquent general taxes, and no redeemable
tax sales against any of the land included in the annexed plat.
I further certify that I have received all statutory fees in connection with
the annexed plat.
Given under my hand and seal of the County Clerk at Waukegan, Illinois this
              day of A.D., 19   .
      (SEAL)
                                                               
                              County Clerk
         (b)   Surveyor's Certificate:
This is to certify that I, a Registered Illinois Land Surveyor, No.         ,
have surveyed and subdivided the property as described and shown by the annexed
plat, which is a correct representation of said survey and subdivision. All
distances are shown in feet and decimals thereof. All lots meet the
requirements of the Village of Winthrop Harbor Zoning Ordinance in regard to
lot area, width and buildable area.
Further, I certify this subdivision is (is not) situated within five hundred
(500) feet of a surface drain or water course serving a tributary area of 640
acres or more.
      Given under my hand and seal at                            , Illinois,
this day of           A.D., 19   .
      (SEAL)
                                                            
                              Registered Illinois
                              Land Surveyor
         (c)   Owner's Certificate:
This is to certify that the undersigned is (are) the sole owner(s) of the land
described in the annexed plat, that no other person has any right, title or
interest in said land and that he (they) has (have) caused the same to be
surveyed and subdivided as indicated thereon for the uses and purposes therein
set forth, and does hereby acknowledge and adopt the same under the title
thereon indicated.
DATED this         day of         A.D. 19   .
                                                          
                              Owner
         (d)   Notary Certificate:
I,                                  , Notary Public in and for said County, in
the State aforesaid, do hereby certify that                      personally
known to me to be the same person(s) whose name(s) is (are) subscribed to the
foregoing instrument as such owner(s), appeared before me this day in person
and acknowledged that he (they) signed and delivered the annexed plat as his
(their) own free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal, this       day of                A.D.,
19    at                , Illinois.
      (SEAL)
                                                                  
                              Notary Public
         (e)   County Engineer's Certificate (required only if the plat abuts a
County Highway)
I,                                     , County Engineer of said County, do
hereby certify that the annexed plat has been examined by me and found to
comply with the highway requirements as set forth in the regulations governing
plats of subdivided lands adopted by the Board of Supervisors of Lake County,
Illinois.
Dated this         day of               , A.D. 199   at                    ,
Illinois.
      (SEAL)
                                                                    
                                 County Engineer
         (f)   Health Officer's certificate (required only if the plat will
utilize on-site sewage disposal systems or wells)
I,                                Health Office of said County, do hereby
certify that the plat has been examined by me and found to comply with Lake
County Board of Health ordinance, Article V, as set forth in the regulations
governing plats of subdivision land adopted by the County Board of Lake County,
Illinois.
Dated this       day of                       , 19    A.D. at
                 , Illinois.
      (SEAL)
                                                           
                                 Health Officer, Lake County
         (g)   Village of Winthrop Harbor Certificate:
Under the authority provided by the Illinois Revised Statutes enacted by the
State Legislature of the State of Illinois, this plat was given approval by the
Village of Winthrop Harbor and MUST BE RECORDED WITHIN SIX MONTHS OF THE DATE
OF APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE BOARD OTHERWISE IT IS NULL AND VOID.
Approved by the Planning and Zoning Board at a meeting held                 
                                                               
                                 Chairman
                                                               
                                 Secretary
      Approved by the Village Engineer on                                , Date
                                                               
                                 Village Engineer
Approved by the Village Board at a meeting held                       
                                                               
                                 Mayor
                                                               
                                 Village Clerk
      (20) Such final plat may be for a unit of a proposed subdivision provided
that:
         (a)   A preliminary plat had previously been approved to the whole
subdivision.
         (b)   Approval by the Village Engineer to the feasibility of such unit
construction is granted.
         (c)   The public improvements for at least one unit shall be submitted
and completed within one year from the date of approval of the final plat for
the unit.
         (d)   The plat of each unit shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Board for its approval; and
         (e)   Failure to comply with the terms of this division (A) will
require resubmission of the requirements of §
152.130.
         (f)   Each unit must be independent from any future unit in respect to
public improvements, drainage and detention and open space.
      (21) Failure to comply with terms of this division (A) will require
resubmission of the requirements of §
152.130.
   (B)   Accompanying documents shall consist of:
      (1)   Approval of subdivider's, developer, builder preparation for
improvements.
      (2)   Approval by Building Commissioner of names of the proposed system
of addresses along such streets.
      (3)   Final plans and specifications for the improvements required by
Design and Construction Standards, in strict conformity with subdivider's,
developer's, builder's and owner's preparation for such improvements previously
approved by the President and Board of Trustees or other appropriate authority
and signed by the subdivider, developer, builder and owner.
      (4)   An agreement executed by the owner and subdivider, developer,
builder to make and install the improvements provided for in subdivision (3)
above in accordance with the plans and specifications accompanying the final
plat.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.133 APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Twenty two copies of the final plat and five copies of the
accompanying documents shall be submitted to the Village Clerk at least 30 days
prior to the scheduled Planning and Zoning Board meeting.
   (B)   The Village Engineer shall review the final plat and accompanying
documents for conformance with the preliminary plat, as approved by the
Planning and Zoning Board meeting.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall review the final plat and
accompanying documents, and if determined to be acceptable, direct the Chairman
and Secretary to affix their signatures in appropriate places on the
certificate of approval on the final plat and forwarding these documents to the
Village Board. The Planning and Zoning Board's approval shall not be deemed to
constitute or effect an acceptance by the public of the dedication of any
street or other proposed public way or space shown in the plat.
   (D)   After approval of the final plat and accompanying documents and the
forwarding of these documents to the Village Board by the Planning and Zoning
Board, the Village Board shall, upon motion and majority vote, approve the
final plat and authorize the Mayor and Village Clerk to sign the original
tracing.
   (E)   The Village Board shall approve or disapprove the final plat within 60
days from the date of filing the last required document or other papers or
within 60 days from the date of filing application for final approval of the
plat, whichever date is later unless, upon application of the developer,
subdivider, builder, owner, the Village Board grants an extension.
   (F)   The original tracing shall be retained by the Village Clerk until such
time as the applicant requests the Village Clerk to file the plat and deposits
the appropriate filing fees with the Village Treasurer.
   (G)   Upon approval of the Village Board, the developer, subdivider,
builder, owner, shall record the plat with the County Recorder within six
months. If the final plat is not recorded within this time, the approval shall
be null and void. Deposits for improvements held by the village shall in that
event be refunded to the depositor.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.134 ASSURANCE OF COMPLETION.
   (A)   Completion of improvements: Prior to the approval of the final plat.
In lieu of this, the Engineer for the subdivider, developer, builder, owner,
will submit to the village an estimated cost of required improvements and the
subdivider, builder, developer, owner, will post a performance guarantee in the
form of a letter of credit or cash escrow to the Village Treasurer which
assures the installation of these improvements in accordance with the
provisions, requirements and within the time limits established by this
chapter. The estimate of cost shall reflect the current unit prices.
   (B)   Costs of improvements. All required improvements shall be made by the
subdivider, developer, builder at his expense without reimbursement by the
village.
   (C)   Temporary improvements. The subdivider, developer, builder shall build
and pay all costs of temporary improvements required by the village. Prior to
construction of any temporary facility or improvement, the subdivider,
developer, builder shall file with the village a separate suitable performance
guarantee for temporary facilities. The performance guarantee shall insure that
the temporary facilities shall be properly constructed, maintained and removed.
   (D)   Performance guarantee.
      (1)   General. A performance guarantee shall be provided in a form of a
cash escrow, or irrevocable letter of credit. The village may also require
restricted covenants as an additional performance guarantee where a cash
escrow, or irrevocable letter of credit is posted, and is deemed inadequate to
protect the public interest. All reductions, releases and extensions of the
performance guarantee shall be recommended by the Village Engineer and Supt. of
Public Works and must be approved by the Village Board.
         (a)   Cash escrow. A cash escrow may be posted by the subdivider,
developer, builder. The amount to be posted shall be equal to 125% of the
estimated cost of construction of the improvements. This amount shall include
the village's costs of administering the completion of improvements in the
event the subdivider, developer, builder defaults. The cash escrow shall be
made payable to the village and shall be submitted to the Village Treasurer 30
days prior to construction. The type of cash escrow provided may be a cashier's
check, bank draft, certified check or bank money order. A certificate of
deposit shall not be accepted. With the approval of the Village Board, the time
of performance may be extended for not more than one year.
         (b)   Irrevocable letter of credit.
            1.   An irrevocable letter of credit will be acceptable provided
that the subdivider, developer, builder submit the letter of credit in the
format which has been preapproved by the Village Attorney and is available from
the Village Treasurer and provided that the installation and construction of
the improvement is in strict conformance with the provisions of this chapter
within one year from the date of the final plat approval. All letters of credit
shall be equal to 125% of the estimated cost. This amount shall include the
village's cost of administering the completion of improvements in the event the
subdivider, developer, builder defaults.
            2.   All letters of credit shall be posted for a period of one year
and submitted 30 days prior to construction. The Village Board for a good
cause, with the approval of the surety may extend the time of performance for
not more than one year. Said letters shall be submitted to the Village
Treasurer.
      (2)   Default. If the subdivider, developer, builder, fails to perform
the work with sufficient workmen and equipment or with sufficient materials to
insure the completion of said work within the specified time, or performs the
work unsuitable, as determined by the Village Engineer or other affected
agency, or neglects or refuses materials or performs anew such work as shall be
rejected as defective and unsuitable or discontinues the execution of the work,
or for any other cause whatsoever does not carry on the work in an approved
manner, the Village Board shall give notice by registered mail to subdivider,
developer, builder, and his surety, of such delinquency, said notice to specify
the corrective measures required. After said notice, the Village Board shall
give notice by registered mail to the subdivider, developer, builder, and his
surety, of such delinquency, said notice to specify the corrective measures
required. After said notice, the Village Board shall call upon the performance
guarantee to have the work completed in accordance with the terms of the
performance guarantee. The Village Board may then take over the work including
any or all materials or equipment on the ground as may be suitable and
acceptable and may complete the work with its own forces or use any such other
methods as, in its opinion, shall be required for the completion of the work in
an acceptable manner.
   (E)   Reduction, release or extension of performance guarantee.
      (1)   No more than two reductions in the performance guarantee shall be
permitted to any subdivider, developer, builder, before the final release of
the performance guarantee. A fee shall be charged for a reduction in the amount
of the performance guarantee according to the current fee schedule adopted by
the Village Board. The first reduction in the performance guarantee shall not
be permitted until such time as a minimum of 30% of the required improvements
have been completed. The second reduction in the performance guarantee shall
not be permitted until such time as a minimum of 70% of the required
improvements have been completed. All requests for a reduction of the
performance guarantee shall be in writing from the subdivider, developer,
builder, and shall be accompanied by a letter from the subdivider's,
developer's, builder's, engineer stating the revised estimate of cost for the
remainder of all improvements. No performance guarantee shall be reduced below
25% of the principal amount. A request for renewal of a performance guarantee
which is approaching expiration shall be in writing from the developer,
subdivider, builder, and submitted to the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Release of the performance guarantee shall not be considered unless
all required improvements have been completed and a maintenance guarantee is
deposited with the village. The reduction, release or extension of all
performance guarantee shall be approved by the Village Board.
      (3)   At the time of request for a release or reduction of a performance
guarantee, an inspection of the improvements of the subdivision shall be made.
The inspections shall be conducted by the Village Engineer.
      (4)   Following each such inspection, the Village Engineer shall forward
a written report and recommendation to the Village Board. Each such report
shall detail any deficiencies in improvements installed or not installed up to
that point in time. If no deficiencies exist their report shall so state.
Unless no deficiencies exist, the Village Engineer shall specifically note
whether the developer's, builder's, subdivider's, estimate of the cost of
remaining improvements is a reasonable estimate and the basis for this
conclusion. Each report shall in addition state a recommendation. The
recommendation shall be one of the following: approval; partial approval; or
denial. The reasons for each recommendation shall be stated.
      (5)   When such report has been satisfactorily filed and the
recommendation is to release the performance guarantee or reduce it to an
agreed upon amount, a report to this effect shall be prepared for Village Board
consideration.
   (F)   Maintenance guarantee.
      (1)   Improvements.
         (a)   A maintenance guarantee shall be submitted by the subdivider,
developer, builder to the Village Treasurer upon satisfactory completion of all
improvements and prior to the release of the original performance guarantee.
The term of the maintenance guarantee shall be for one following completion of
the improvements.
         (b)   All failures which occur within the one year period shall be
corrected by the subdivider and restored to satisfactory working condition,
subject to the approval of the Village Engineer. The maintenance guarantee
shall be in the amount equal to ten percent of the original construction cost.
      (2)   Default. If the subdivider, developer, builder fails to restore to
satisfactory condition the pavement or other improvements within the specified
time, or shall perform the work unsuitable as determined by the Village Board,
or for any other cause whatsoever, shall not carry on the restoration in a
suitable manner, the Village Board shall give notice by registered mail to the
subdivider, developer, builder and his surety. Said notice shall specify the
corrective measures involved. If the subdivider, developer, builder within a
period of ten days after said notice, does not proceed in accordance therewith,
the Village Board shall call upon the surety to complete the restoration work
in accordance with the terms of the maintenance guarantee.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
 
DEDICATION OF PARK LANDS
§ 152.155 REQUIREMENTS FOR DEDICATION.
   As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision of any block, lot
or sub-lot or any part thereof or any piece or parcel of land, or the issuance
of the building permit, each subdivider, developer or builder will be required
to dedicate fully equipped land for park and recreational purposes to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the housing, or cash
contribution in lieu of actual land dedication. A cash contribution may be the
most appropriate because of the village's forehanded and timely purchase of
land located within the village in order to provide for the anticipated
population increase, due principally to the subdivisions and development of
vacant land within and abutting the village which will be annexed into it. A
combination of both may also be desirable at the option of the village, in
accordance with the following criteria and formula. The subdivider, developer
or builder may dedicate such fully equipped sites to the village or to an
appropriate public agency if there is a public agency willing to accept the
dedication. If the subdivider, developer or builder does not choose to dedicate
the fully equipped sites or if there is no public agency willing to, accept the
dedication, provision must be made for a compulsory homeowner's association or
some other means of assuring that the land will be maintained and preserved, in
perpetuity, for the intended purposes. Articles of agreement for a homeowner's
association or any other necessary documents must be approved by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees and must be recorded with the final plat, with a notation on
the plat referring to any such documents.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.156 CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING DEDICATION.
   (A)   Requirement and population ratio. The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly upon the amount of fully equipped land required
for dedication. The total requirements shall be five and one-half acres of
fully equipped land per 1,000 of ultimate population in accordance with the
following classifications:
Type of equipped recreational Size range                Minimum acres per 1,000
area                                                    people
(1) Play lot                  Minimum 8,000 square feet Not applicable
(2) School-park (neighborhood Minimum park of five      1.25
    playground)               acres
(3) Neighborhood park         Minimum three and one-    1.0
                              half acres
(4) District-wide park or     Minimum four acres up to  1.25
    playfield                 30 acres
(5) Community-wide recreation Minimum 12 acres up to 30 2.0
    park                      acres
                              Total                     5.5 acres of fully
                                                        equipped land per 1,000
Source: Adapted from National Park Recreation and Open Space Standards, June
1971, National Recreation and Park Association, Washington D.C.
 
   (B)   Credit for private open spaces and recreational areas. When
subdividers, developers, or builders provide their own fully equipped open
space for recreational areas and facilities, not in the flood plain, it has the
effect of reducing the demand for local fully equipped public recreational
services. Depending on the size of the development, a portion of the park and
recreational areas in subdivisions may at the option of the village be provided
in the form of "private" fully equipped open space in lieu of dedicated
"public" fully equipped open space. The extent of same shall be determined by
the village based upon the needs of the projected residents and in conformance
to the total fully equipped park and recreational land for the general area. In
general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated parks will imply a
substantially higher degree of improvement, and the installation of
recreational facilities, including tennis courts, swimming pools, and the like
by the developer as part of the developer's obligation. Detailed plans of such
areas, including specification of facilities to be installed, must be approved
by the Planning and Zoning Board, the Mayor and Board of Trustees, and before
any credit is given for private recreational areas, the subdivider, developer,
or builder must guarantee that these private recreational areas will be
permanently maintained for such use by the execution of the appropriate legal
documents. When an adjustment for private recreational areas is warranted, it
will be necessary to compute the total park land dedication that would have
been required from the subdivision and then subtract the credit to be given.
   (C)   Exemption. Likewise the development of single-family residences on
relatively large privately- owned lots reduces the need for common open spaces
and recreational areas. Therefore, new subdivisions containing minimum lot
areas equal to or exceeding five acres shall be exempt from the open space
requirements of this section unless an area within the boundaries of the
proposed subdivision or development has been previously designated for open
space on the comprehensive plan of the village.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.157 CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF PARK SITES.
   (A)   Small developments. Where the subdivision, apartment development or
single-family home is too small and the resulting site is too small to be
practical or when the available land is inappropriate for park and recreational
purposes, the village shall require the subdivider, developer, or single-family
resident to pay a cash contribution prior to the issuance of a building permit
in lieu of the land dedication which shall be held in a special fund by the
village or other public body designated by the village and dispersed for the
acquisition of park and recreational land and equipment as hereinbefore
classified, which will be available to serve the immediate or future needs of
the residents of that subdivision or development or for the capitol improvement
of other existing local park and recreational land which already serves such
needs and dispersed for the administration expenses of these provisions. If any
portion of a cash contribution in lieu of a park or recreational land
dedication is not expended for the purposes set forth herein within ten years
from the date of receipt, it shall be refunded to the developer, subdivider, or
builder who made such contribution.
   (B)   Fair market value. The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the “fair market value” of the acres of land in the area improved as
specified herein that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and
recreation. It has been determined that the present “fair market value” of such
improved land in the village is $75,000 per acre, and such figure shall be used
in making any calculation herein unless the subdivider, developer, or builder
files a written objection thereto. In the event of any such objection the
subdivider, developer, or builder shall submit an appraisal showing the “fair
market value” of such improved land in the area of the subdivider’s,
developer’s, or builder’s housing or other evidence thereof, and final
determination of said “fair market value” per acre of such improved land shall
be made by the Planning and Zoning Board based upon such information submitted
by the subdivider, developer, or builder and from other sources which may be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board.
   (C)   Criteria for requiring dedication and a fee. There will be situations
in subdivisions when a combination of fully equipped land dedication and a
contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These occasions will arise
when:
      (1)   Only a portion of the fully equipped land to be developed is
proposed as the location for a park site. That portion of the fully equipped
land within the subdivision falling within the park location shall be dedicated
as a site as aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be
required for any additional fully equipped land that would have been required
to be dedicated.
      (2)   A major part of the local park or recreational site has already
been acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the development
to complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required by dedication,
and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for the complete
equipping of any under-equipped parks and recreation areas.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 2006-O-5, passed 3-21-06)
§ 152.158 DENSITY FORMULA.
Table of Estimated Ultimate Population per Dwelling Unit
Type of Unit  Total per Unit
Detached Single-Family:
Three-Bedroom 2.801
Four-Bedroom  3.631
Five-Bedroom  3.630
Attached-Single Family (Townhouse, Row House, Quadruplex, etc.)
One-Bedroom   1.068
Two-Bedroom   2.077
Three-Bedroom 2.403
Four-Bedroom  3.243
         Low Density Apartment (to 15/acre):
Efficiency    1.360
One-Bedroom   1.753
Two-Bedroom   1.821
Three-Bedroom 3.018
 
   (B)   In the event that the subdivider, developer, or builder intends to
sell only undeveloped parcels or lots, or if it is impossible or impractical to
determine at the time of final plat approval the ultimate number of bedrooms in
future single-family units, for the purposes of this chapter required
contributions shall be calculated as if the development will ultimately contain
the following ratio of bedroom units:
      (1)   Three bedrooms (or rooms which could be used as bedrooms), 65%.
      (2)   Four bedrooms (or rooms which could be used as bedrooms), 30%.
      (3)   Five bedrooms (or rooms which could be used as bedrooms), 5%.
   Source: Adapted from Professional Builder 1977 Consumer Survey.
   (C)   The developer, subdivider, or builder may submit alternative studies
or information on current housing markets in place of the above figures to the
Planning and Zoning Board. The Planning and Zoning Board and Board of Trustees
shall then make a final decision as to which figures most accurately reflect
the ultimate future bedroom ratio.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.159 RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND.
   Where the comprehensive plan or the standards of the village call for a
larger amount of fully equipped park and recreational land in a particular
subdivision than the developer is required to dedicate, the fully equipped land
needed beyond the developer's contribution shall be reserved on the final plat
for subsequent purchases by the village or other public body designated by the
village, provided that such acquisition is made within one year from the date
of approval of the final plat.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.160 COMBINATION WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS.
   Where the subdivision is less than 40 acres, fully equipped public open
space which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with fully
equipped dedications from adjoining developments in order to produce usable
fully equipped recreational areas without hardship on a particular developer.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.161 TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING.
   The topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as its surroundings
must be suitable for its intended purposes. Grading on sites dedicated for park
and recreational uses shall be consistent with those purposes.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.162 IMPROVED SITES.
   All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, water, sewer, and streets, and containing all the recreational
equipment determined essential by the Mayor and Board of Trustees. These items
are included in the development and as applicable to the location of the site,
or acceptable provision made therefor.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.163 FULLY EQUIPPED LAND OR SITES.
   All improved sites shall have installed on them all the park and
recreational facilities as deemed necessary by the Mayor and Board of Trustees,
but the average contribution per lot by the subdividers or developers shall be
limited to not more than $450 per lot for fully equipped land or sites for park
and recreational purposes unless the village has made significant cost saving
agreements with the subdivider or developer.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.164 TITLE TO SITES.
   All fully equipped sites shall be conveyed to the village, homeowner's
association, or other suitable public body as may be approved by the village,
either by a warranty or trustee's deed. The subdivider or developer shall be
responsible for conveying good, merchantable title to such fully equipped sites
and shall be responsible for payment of all real estate taxes to date of
conveyance.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.165 CALCULATIONS OF CASH IN LIEU OF PARK LANDS.
   By way of example, using the land value in §
152.157 and the density formulas in §
152.158, and factoring in the need for 5.5 acres of land per 1,000 population
(or 0.0055 acres per person) set forth in §
152.156, the following calculations are derived:
   (A)   Single-family detached.
      (1)   Three-bedroom: 2.801 ×.0055 .015 acres per house × $75,000 $1,125
      (2)   Four-bedroom: 3.631 × .0055 .020 acres per house × $75,000 $1,500
      (3)   Five-bedroom: 3.630 × .0055 .020 acres per house × $75,000 $1,500
   (B)   Attached single-family (townhouse, condominium, etc.).
      (1)   One-bedroom: 1.068 × .0055 .005 acres per unit × $75,000 $375
      (2)   Two-bedroom: 2.077 × .0055 .011 acres per unit × $75,000 $825
      (3)   Three-bedroom: 2.403 × .0055 .013 acres per unit × $775,000 $975
      (4)   Four-bedroom: 3.243 × .0055 .018 acres per unit × $75,000 $1,350
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 2006-O-5, passed 3-21-06)
§ 152.166 CAP ON DONATIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the calculations of the required donations and
contributions set forth in §§
152.155 through 152.65, all cash contributions required in lieu of land shall
be capped at the sum of $500 per housing unit, which has been determined by the
corporate authorities to constitute a fair, if greatly reduced, contribution
toward the impact upon park grounds and capital structures caused by
development of new housing:
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HOUSING UNIT. A single-family home (including townhouses and condominiums
as well as traditional detached houses) of any size or an apartment designed
for single-family occupancy of no more than four bedrooms.
(Ord. 2006-O-5, passed 3-21-06)
DESIGN POLICY FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 162.169 FIRE AND RESCUE DONATIONS.
   In order to defray land acquisition, capital improvement, and capital
equipment costs incurred by the Fire Department of the village which are
specifically and uniquely attributable to the residential subdivisions and in-
fill residential building occurring within the village, the sum of $500 per
dwelling unit shall be paid to the village at the time a building permit is
issued for any new dwelling unit. This required donation shall be a set, flat
rate without regard to the number of bedrooms in the dwelling unit. The money
so donated shall be used by the Fire Department of the village only for land
acquisition, capital improvement, and capital equipment purchases.
(Ord. 2006-O-5, passed 3-21-06)
§ 152.170 SUBMISSION OF PLANS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   The policy herein outlined pertains to the design and construction of
all public improvements whether they are a part of a new subdivision, a planned
development, special assessment project, or an improvement to a particular
parcel of property. This work shall be done in accordance with the following:
Village ordinance entitled "Comprehensive Amendment of Subdivision
Regulations"; Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction of the
State of Illinois, Division of Highways, dated January 2, 1958 (latest
revision); rules and regulations governing the submission of Plan Documents of
the State Sanitary Water Board, Circular No. 840 as amended; Rules and
Regulations of the State of Illinois Department of Public Health, Circular No.
829; Rules and Regulations of the North Shore Sanitary District.
   (B)   With the submission of the preliminary plat of subdivision, the
developer shall submit three copies of an engineering report that includes:
      (1)   All requirements as outlined in this chapter.
      (2)   A topographic map with a contour interval of not more than two feet
which shall also show the proposed and adjoining lots and streets. All
elevations to be on United States Geological Survey datum and at a minimum
scale of one inch 100 feet.
      (3)   A schematic layout, if required by the Plan Commission, of the
proposed sewers and water mains, including size, inverts, and location at a
minimum scale of one inch 100 feet.
      (4)   A written statement describing the adequacy, or problems, of the
proposed facilities, as well as the effect they will have on existing or future
facilities.
   (C)   Upon approval of the preliminary plat and report, the developer shall
submit three sets of final plans and specifications, and estimate of cost, to
the Village Engineer for review. A marked copy shall be returned to the
developer, who will then make the necessary corrections and resubmit three sets
of each to the Village Engineer.
   (D)   All documents shall be prepared under the supervision of a
professional engineer registered in the state, and shall bear his seal. They
shall be on 24 inch × 36 inch sheets and shall include the following:
      (1)   Title sheet with the type of improvement, project name, owner's
name, engineer's name, location plan, index of sheets, legend, bench mark, and
north arrow.
      (2)   Plat of survey at a minimum scale of one inch 100 feet.
      (3)   Topographic map with street and lot layout at a minimum scale of
one inch = 100 feet, and a contour interval of not more than one foot. All
elevations on the engineering drawings shall be on United States Geological
Survey datum.
      (4)   General layout showing all existing and proposed improvements on
one overall sheet at a minimum scale of one inch = 100 feet.
      (5)   Plan and profile sheets at a minimum horizontal scale of one inch =
50 feet and a vertical scale of one inch = five feet showing all existing and
proposed improvements.
      (6)   Standard detail sheets for streets, curbs and gutters, manholes,
catch basins, inlets, valve vaults, sewer and water services, street lighting,
and the like. A sepia of these details will be furnished without cost by the
Village Engineer. All special details will be furnished by the developer.
      (7)   Grading plan of the subdivision at a minimum scale of one inch = 50
feet showing existing and proposed grades, the finished grade at all corners of
the house and lot, top of curb grades at lot corner, the direction of flow of
surface runoff, all breaks in grade, and storm inlets and catch basins.
      (8)   Specifications covering the proposed improvements on 8½" x 11"
sheets shall be furnished. Sepias of standard specifications shall be furnished
without cost by the Village Engineer.
   (E)   All revisions to the approved plans shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer for the Engineer's approval prior to construction.
   (F)   The developer shall be responsible for coordinating and supervising
all work to meet the approval of the village.
   (G)   Within 30 days upon completion of the improvements and before final
acceptance, "as built" plans shall be supplied to the village. These plans
shall be in black ink on tracing cloth and shall include, by reference to
property or street lines, the location of all valves, fire hydrants, manholes,
inlets, house services, sewer and water mains, and other facilities as the
Village Engineer may require. The plans shall be attested to and signed by the
registered professional engineer preparing the plans and shall be a condition
of final acceptance.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.171 REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENT; UNDERGROUND IMPROVEMENTS.
   No development of land shall be approved by the village without receiving a
statement signed by the Village Engineer certifying that the improvements
proposed by the subdivider, developer, builder meet the minimum requirements of
the village and that they comply with the following:
   (A)   General underground improvements.
      (1)   The underground improvements shall be installed in the parkway
wherever possible.
      (2)   The allowable loading on pipes shall be determined from the
appropriate tables in the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction of Illinois, May 1986 or latest edition, and "Concrete Pipe
Handbook". The pipe shall be designed for a minimum H-15 wheel load.
      (3)   No sewer may be installed on a curved alignment.
      (4)   Where the trenches for underground improvements are installed under
existing or proposed pavements, driveways and sidewalk, or within two feet of
the back of curb, trench backfill, according to Para. 20, "State Standard
Specifications", shall be used for backfilling the trenches.
      (5)   All sewer and water main trenches shall be undercut six inches and
the pipe laid on a six inch cushion IEPA/NSSD approved granular material. This
requirement may be waived at the discretion of the Village Engineer.
      (6)   All underground improvements shall be completed prior to any
surface improvements.
   (B)   A complete system of sanitary sewers shall be constructed throughout
the development allowing for the extension of the village sewer system to
adjacent areas.
      (1)   Only sanitary sewage shall be connected to the sanitary sewer
system.
      (2)   Sewage flow shall be estimated, based on the following assumptions
for domestic uses;
         (a)   4.0 persons/house
         (b)   100 gal/capita/day (includes infiltration) average daily flow
         (c)   Average day = 24 hours
         (d)   Maximum daily flow = Fx average daily flow
            F = 4.00 for 8" and 10";
            F = 2.50 for 12' and larger
      (3)   Sanitary sewers shall be designed to flow full with a minimum
velocity of two feet per second, and a maximum velocity not to exceed that of
critical flow, based on Kutter's Formula using a "n" value of 0.013 for
concrete pipe.
      (4)   The minimum size public sanitary sewer shall be eight inches in
diameter.
      (5)   All sanitary sewers and services shall be constructed in accordance
with the Design and Construction Policy.
      (6)   Minimum cover on sanitary sewers shall be eight feet or as directed
by the Village Engineer. Sewers in excess of 20 feet cover may require special
bedding and pipe as approved by the Village Engineer. Risers shall be required
where sewers are over ten feet deep or more, and shall extend to within eight
feet of grade.
      (7)   All sanitary sewers shall be located in the parkway, on the north
or west side of the street.
      (8)   Maximum allowable infiltration shall be 200 gallons per inch
diameter of sewer pipe per mile per day.
      (9)   A sanitary house service shall be installed at the center of each
lot at the time of the sanitary sewer installation and shall extend to the
property line. The service shall be a minimum size of six inches in diameter
and shall be installed at a minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot and
maximum grade of one inch per foot.
      (10) Sanitary sewer manholes are to be a minimum four feet diameter
precast concrete as per ASTM designation C 478. Jointing material shall be a
mastic joint sealer.
      (11) The sewer service shall be connected to the main sewer with a wye.
If a wye is not available, the service shall be connected to the sewer by means
of a saddle.
      (12) Sewage lift stations will not be permitted if gravity connection to
any part of an existing or approved sewer is possible.
   (C)   A complete system of water mains shall be constructed throughout the
development sized to permit for future extension of the village water system to
adjacent areas. Every lot in the development shall be serviced by means of a
house connection within its own frontage.
      (1)   The water system shall be designed so that it will be circulating
or looped whenever possible.
      (2)   Water mains shall be not less than eight inch internal diameter and
constructed of ASA 21.6 Class 150 Cast Iron Pipe or other material as directed
by the Village Engineer with single ring push-on joint or mechanical joint.
Pipe and fittings shall have a standard cement lining as per ASA 21.4
      (3)   Valves shall be located so that in the event of a single break not
more than 1,000 feet of main will be out of service and require the closing of
not more than three valves. All valves shall open to the left. Precast concrete
vaults shall be constructed around all valves. Four foot diameter vaults shall
be constructed on valves up to eight inches in diameter, with five foot
diameter vaults around larger valves.
      (4)   Fire hydrants shall be installed throughout the entire development,
located at intervals not to exceed 400 feet, and no house shall be greater than
200 feet from a hydrant.
      (5)   Concrete thrust blocks shall be placed behind all fittings and a
two foot square precast concrete block shall be placed under all hydrants.
Retainer glands shall be used if soil conditions are poor, or as directed by
the Village Engineer.
      (6)   All water mains shall be located in the parkway, on the south or
east side of the street.
      (7)   Connections to the existing water system shall be made by pressure
tap unless otherwise authorized by Village Engineer.
      (8)   A water service shall be installed at the center of each lot at the
time of the water main installation and shall extend to the property line. The
service shall include a one inch Type "K" copper pipe and a one inch cc thread
brass service saddle, Mueller H 13000 or H 16000 Series. A corporation cock and
roundway shall be located approximately one foot from the sidewalk. The
corporation cock shall be Mueller No. H 15000 and the roundway shall be Mueller
No. H 15154. If the sanitary and water services are installed in a common
trench, the water service must be placed on a shelf one foot above the top of
the sewer service and 18 inches from the edge of the sewer trench.
   (D)   A complete system of storm sewers shall be constructed to drain the
development and any contiguous drainage areas. The developer shall submit to
the Village Engineer two copies of the storm drainage computations.
      (1)   In general, the release rate requirement of .04 cfs/acre for the 2-
year event and .15 cfs/acre for the 100 year event should apply to regulated
developments that meet one of the following requirements:
         (a)   Single family detached residential developments with five or
more units.
         (b)   Multi-family, non-residential, and other developments of three
acres or more in size, or which will result in an impervious area of 50% or
more of the development site.
         (c)   The public road construction project resulting in more than one
and one-half acres of additional impervious surface per mile on linear
projects, or more than one acre of additional impervious surface per nonlinear
project.
      (2)   All subdivisions of five acres or larger shall have on-site storm
water detention facilities. These shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the latest state, county, or village requirements which best
protect the property involved, in order to provide detention for the 100-year
frequency storm on the developed site with a maximum release rate as produced
by the three-year storm on the undeveloped site.
      (3)   The rational method shall be employed when computing storm runoff.
A ten year storm shall be used for design purposes.
      (4)   Storm sewer shall be designed to flow full, using Manning's
Formula.
      (5)   Storm sewers shall be designed, when flowing full, to have a
minimum velocity of two and one-half feet per second and maximum velocity not
to exceed the critical flow.
      (6)   All inlets shall be located to drain a maximum street length of 300
feet. Where the inlet is located at a low point, additional inlets may be
required by the Village Engineer. Depressed street crowns to facilitate
drainage will not be allowed.
      (7)   All inlets shall be located to drain a maximum street length of 400
feet. Where the inlet is located at a low point, additional inlets may be
required by the Village Engineer. Depressed street crowns to facilitate
drainage will not be allowed.
         (a)   All water entering inlets shall pass through a catch basin
before entering the main sewer at a manhole.
         (b)   Catch basins shall be required where the length of flow in swale
exceeds 400 feet.
      (8)   Rear yard catch basins shall be required where the length of flow
in a swale exceeds 400 feet.
      (9)   The minimum size storm sewer shall be 12 inches in diameter, and
minimum size inlet connection shall be ten inches in diameter.
      (10) Minimum cover shall be three feet for all storm sewers unless
special precautions are taken to protect the pipe, as approved by the Village
Engineer.
      (11) All storm sewers shall be located in the parkway, on the north or
west side of the street.
      (12) All manholes, inlets, and catch basins shall be designed in
accordance with the standards of the village, as shown on the detail sheet.
      (13) No open ditches will be allowed within the subdivision.
      (14) Spillways shall be required whenever a storm sewer enters a main
water course above the flow line.
      (15) Where the downstream capacity of the sewer system or water course is
inadequate, or where the topography of the ground is such that flooding can be
expected, the developer shall point this out in the drainage report.
      (16) Where the downstream capacity of the sewer system or water course is
inadequate, or where the topography of the ground is such that flooding can be
expected, the developer shall point this out in the drainage report.
   (E)   All public utility lines for telephone and electric services shall be
placed underground in rear and side lot line easements, or in a dedicated
right-of-way. These services shall be placed in manner which will not conflict
with other underground services. Transformer boxes shall be located so as not
to be unsightly, or hazardous, to the public.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.172 REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS; SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Pavement.
      (1)   The width of the pavement shall be in accordance with the standards
of §
152.011.
      (2)   The subgrade for all pavements shall be a soil bearing value of not
less than CBR-4, as determined by the California Bearing Ration Test. Where, in
the opinion of the Village Engineer, the CBR may be less than 4, the Engineer
may require the developer to provide a laboratory report stating the CBR value
of the subgrade in question. This work shall be done at no cost to the village.
Where the CBR of the subgrade is less than 4, the developer shall submit a new
pavement design to the Village Engineer for the Engineer's approval.
      (3)   Pavement width and crown.
                         Right-of-way Width to Back of Curb           Crown
Primary or major streets 100          Two-24 feet roadways divided by 3 inches
                                      a median strip
Arterial
Secondary streets        80           40 feet                         5 inches
Minor streets            60           32 feet                         3 inches
Non-arterial
Cul-de-sacs              60           27 feet                         3 inches
Marginal access          40           20 feet
street
Frontage streets                      20 feet
Paved cul-de-sac radii shall be 40 feet to back to curb
 
      (4)   Pavement types:
 
Arterial Street                                                       Non-Arterial Streets
Base Surface                                                          Base Surface
8 inch Portland Cement concrete - *Section 420 with integral type     7 inch Portland Cement Concrete - *Section 420 with integral type
curbs                                                                 curbs
or                                                                    or
6" Bituminous Base Course (MS 15.00) 2" Bituminous bindercourse, 1½" 5" Bituminous aggregate mixture (MS 15.00) min 2" Bituminous concrete
bituminous surface course CL-I*                                       binder course, 1½" bituminous concrete surface course CL-I*
 
   * Reference to Standard Specifications Road and Bridge Construction
   Note: No recycled asphalt allowed in surface.
         (a)   All Portland Cement Concrete Pavement shall have two
applications of boiled linseed oil mixture, regardless of the season, as per
Para. 48 of the state specifications.
         (b)   The I-11 bituminous surface shall be constructed in two
operations. The binder course shall be constructed immediately after completion
of the base course. The surface course shall be constructed one year after
completion of the binder course and only after all base course and binder
failures are repaired.
      (5)   Design.
         (a)   Street gradients shall be connected with vertical parabolic
curves if the algebraic difference in grade exceeds 1.00%. Minimum length in
feet of these curves for minor streets shall be 50 times the algebraic
difference in the percent of grade. For arterial streets the minimum length
shall be 100 times the algebraic difference.
         (b)   The minimum pavement grade shall be .50%.
         (c)   The maximum grade for arterial streets shall be 4.0%. The
maximum grade for non- arterial streets shall be 6.0%.
         (d)   All streets shall be designed using a "positive drainage
principle" where possible. No low points shall be allowed which would cause
greater than eight inches of ponding in the event of a complete storm sewer
failure.
   (B)   Air-entrained Portland Cement concrete combination curb and gutter
shall be constructed as per State Specifications Para. 81. The design shall be
of a rolled type not less than 18 inches in overall width, and not less than
eight inches thick where curb abuts the road pavement. All curb corners shall
have a radius of not less than 25 feet for all non-arterial streets and 30 feet
at the intersection with all arterial streets.
   (C)   Air-entrained Portland Cement concrete sidewalks shall be constructed
as per State Specifications Para. 89. The sidewalk shall not be less than five
feet in width and four inches in thickness located one foot inside the right-
of-way line.
   (D)   All handicapped accessibility shall conform to Illinois Administrative
Code (latest edition) commonly known as the American Disabilities Act.
   (E)   Driveway approaches. Driveway approaches shall be the responsibility
of the builder and shall be completed, inspected and approved by the Building
Inspector prior to the issuance of a final occupancy permit. All driveway
approaches shall extend from the edge of the road pavement to the lot line of
the parcel and shall be constructed according to the specifications set forth
in this division (D).
      (1)   Driveway approaches for residential or dwelling use shall be
constructed in a manner and of a material equal at least to that of the
proposed pavement in the public street adjacent thereto. If a concrete pavement
exists for the paving in the public street, the owner may, upon written
request, install a base of CA-6 100% crushed limestone eight inches thick and a
black top surface of two inches, or an air- entrained Portland Cement concrete
pavement in accordance with methods and material required in Para. 88, State
Specifications. The width of driveway approaches for residential or dwelling
use shall be not less than nine feet or more than 14 feet at the outer or
street edge of the sidewalk.
      (2)   Lighting standards shall be prestressed and centrifugally cast
concrete complete with butt base and shall have a water polish finish complete
with bracket and one and one-quarter inch slip fitter and handhole. Heights of
standard and length of bracket shall be as follows:
         (a)   Residential areas: Standard 23 feet with eight foot bracket arm.
         (b)   Commercial, industrial, and manufacturing areas: Standard 30
feet with the length of the bracket arm as approved by the Village Board.
      (3)   Luminaries shall be of the sodium vapor type or latest Commonwealth
Edison acceptable. Size shall be as follows:
         (a)   Residential area: 175 watt
         (b)   Commercial, industrial, and manufacturing areas: 250 watt or 400
watt, as approved by the Village Board.
         (c)   Ballasts shall be of the constant wattage type.
      (4)   Cable on multiple circuit systems shall be net less than #8 wire
and shall be buried at least 30 inches below finished grade. Cable shall be
installed in a two inch galvanized rigid steel conduit with two inch fiber
bushings where such cable crosses beneath existing or proposed pavement,
driveways, or sidewalks. No underground cable splices will be permitted.
      (5)   Cable in individual service systems shall be not less than #12 wire
with 600 volt insulation, type USE, style RR installed in direct burial not
less than 30 inches below grade. Underground splices will be permitted at
points of connection to the public service company lines.
   (F)   Grading of all lots within the village shall be accomplished in such a
manner as to prevent ponding in excess of eight inches in the event of a
complete failure of the storm sewer system. Grading of all lots shall be in
accordance with the standards of FHA. Drainage easements will be provided in
all cases where surface water from more than one lot are conveyed down a
property line.
   (G)   Prior to the installation of public underground improvements
including, but not limited to, sanitary sewers, and those proposed by utility
companies such as gas mains and underground telephone and electric lines,
street rights-of-way and any other lands, easements, or routes along which
above mentioned improvements are constructed shall be "rough graded". "Rough
grading" shall mean that the ground surface is brought to an elevation within
two-tenths foot of the elevation proposed for topsoil spreading. Special
consideration may be given by the Village Engineer and Public Works
Superintendent to cases where the route of the underground improvement is in an
area which will require substantial amounts of earth fill. This requirement
shall not apply to individual house or building service lines.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.173 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An inspector shall be required during construction as required by the
Village Engineer. The Village Engineer shall be notified by phone at least 24
hours before any phase of construction is started.
   (B)   Quality control, laboratory analysis, testing of all materials, and
borings shall be provided by an approved testing laboratory, at the developer's
expense, as required, by the Village Engineer.
   (C)   Upon completion of the improvements, the Village Engineer shall meet
with the contractors and the developer, subdivider, builder. All improvements
shall be thoroughly inspected and all defects noted. Upon correction of these
items and posting of $2,000 cash or 5% of total construction cost, whichever is
greater, and submission of contractor's final affidavits, the Village Engineer
will recommend acceptance to the Village Board.
   (D)   Prior to final acceptance by the Village Board, it may be necessary to
make emergency interim repairs to the underground or surface improvements. The
village shall notify the developer, subdivider, builder and it shall be the
developer's, subdivider's, builder's responsibility to see that these repairs
are made within 24 hours of notification. If these repairs are not accomplished
during this period, the village may make the repairs and charge their cost
against the developer's, subdivider's, builder's cash deposit.
   (E)   After the improvements have been installed and approved for 12 months,
a final inspection shall be made by the Village Engineer. This inspection will
cover all improvements and lot grading. Upon correction of any defects, the
balance of the cash deposit shall be returned to the developer, subdivider,
builder and the maintenance of the improvements shall become the responsibility
of the village.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.174 FEES.
   (A)   Inspection.
      (1)   The village will charge the subdivider, builder, developer, for all
inspection of surface and underground improvements in accordance with current
fee schedule.
      (2)   The developer, subdivider, builder, will be billed monthly for
inspection services.
   (B)   Quality control and testing. When required, quality control and
testing shall be billed directly to the developer, subdivider, builder.
   (C)   Plan review.
      (1)   The fees to be charged for the review of plans shall be in
accordance with current fee schedule, but not less than $50 and in addition
thereto a reasonable sum for any attorney's fees for examining or preparing any
contract, bond, insurance, and other document in connection with such public
improvement. The deposit shall be made with the Village Treasurer in a special
account.
      (2)   This fee will be paid by the subdivider, developer, builder prior
to the approval of the subdivider's, builder's, developer's plans.
      (3)   In addition to review of the plans, the Village Engineer will
furnish the subdivider's, builder's, developer's, engineer with a reproducible
sepia of the general specifications and standard details.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
DAMS AND IMPOUNDMENT STRUCTURES
§ 152.180 SUPERVISION BY STRUCTURAL ENGINEER REQUIRED.
   Dams for water impoundments, pools, ponds, reservoirs, and small lakes shall
be planned, designed, and constructed under the supervision of a structural
engineer and shall meet the approval of the Division of Waterways, Department
of Conservation, and the Lake County Public Works Department. A subsurface soil
investigation prepared by a recognized soil consultant shall be submitted to
the above agencies.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.181 MASONRY DAMS.
   Minimum requirements for masonry dams shall include provisions to insure
proper foundation bearing and for the prevention of slippage, excessive
seepage, piping, and scouring. The structure shall be designed by a structural
engineer. The design and construction requirements shall conform to the
A.A.S.H.T.O. specifications and the Standard Specification.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.182 EXISTING DAMS.
   An engineering report shall be submitted to the plat officer on all existing
dams within a proposed subdivision. Any dam found to be structurally unsafe
shall be reconstructed or reinforced in accordance with above standards.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES
§ 152.190 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARD REQUIREMENTS: INSPECTION.
   All water supply and distribution systems shall be designed and constructed
in accordance with the standard requirements of the village, the County Health
Department, and the Illinois E.P.A. The work shall also be subject to
inspection by these agencies.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.191 COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEMS.
   Every effort shall be made to construct a water system which if connected to
and integral with the village's water supply system. Design and materials of
construction shall conform to §§
152.170 through
152.174. Due consideration shall be given to logical extensions of the system
and the Village Board of Trustees and President may allow construction of
individual wells.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.192 INDIVIDUAL WELLS.
   If allowed, individual wells shall be constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the Lake County Health Department.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.193 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Every community water supply system shall have adequate pipe sizes, water
pressure, and sufficient fire hydrants to supply adequate fire protection in
accordance with state standards.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES
§ 152.200 COMMUNITY SEWER FACILITIES.
   Every effort shall be made to construct a sanitary sewer system which is
contiguous to and integral with the village's master sewer plan. All
improvements shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the Illinois E.P.A., the North Shore Sanitary District, and the
village.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.201 INDIVIDUAL DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   Where it can be demonstrated that connection to the village sewer system is
unduly burdensome, the Village Board of Trustees and President may allow
construction of individual disposal systems. It must be further demonstrated
that soil and ground water conditions are compatible with individual disposal
systems. Disposal systems shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the village plumbing code and the requirements of the Lake County Health
Department.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.202 COMMUNITY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   In as much as the village receives sanitary waste treatment from the North
Shore Sanitary District, construction of community treatment facilities will
not be allowed.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.210 PENALTY.
   All persons, firms, or corporations violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not less than $25 nor more than $200. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95)
§ 152.211 FEE SCHEDULE.
(A) Trees                                  $250.00 per tree
(B) Driveway approach                      $500.00
(C) Inspections:
    (1)   Plumbers                      $25.00
    (2)   Electrical                    $20.00
    (3)   Engineering                   In accordance with current Engineer
                                           Contract on file with village.
(D) Front footage charges:
    (1)   Water main and appurtenances  $32.00 per front foot per lot.
    (2)   Sanitary sewer and appurtenanc$32.00 per front foot per lot.
    (3)   Storm sewer and appurtenances $25.00 per front foot per lot.
    (4)   Drainage ditches              $10.00 per front foot per lot.
    (5)   Curb and gutters              $14.00 per front foot per lot.
    (6)   Bituminous streets            $32.00 per front foot per lot.
 
(Ord. 1995-0-25, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 1996-0-21, passed 12-3-96; Am. Ord.
1997-0-30, passed 11-18-97)
CHAPTER 153: RURAL SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose
   
153.002   Definitions
   
153.003   Title
   
153.004   Adoption of subdivision regulations
Requirements for Platted Improvements,
Resubdivisions, Dedications, and Vacations
   
153.010   Conformance to applicable regulations required
   
153.011   Monuments
   
153.012   Character of the land
Lot Improvements
   
153.020   Lot arrangement
   
153.021   Lines and dimensions
   
153.022   Setback lines
   
153.023   Access to lots
   
153.024   Corner lots
   
153.025   Frontage lots
   
153.026   Reverse frontage lots
   
153.027   Lots affected by surface waters
Blocks
   
153.035   Design
   
153.036   Length
   
153.037   Crosswalks
Resource Preservation
   
153.045   Soil preservation
   
153.046   Preservation of natural features
Resubdivision
   
153.055   Resubdivision in lieu of vacation
   
153.056   Existing subdivisions
Dedications, Easements, and Reservations
   
153.065   Areas required to be dedicated
   
153.066   Dedication of park and recreation sites
   
153.067   Dedication of water and sewerage facilities
   
153.068   Utility easements
   
153.069   Buffer zone
   
153.070   Vacation
Vacation of Plats and Roads
   
153.080   Filing
   
153.081   Petition form and content
   
153.082   Notification
   
153.083   Procedure
   
153.084   Conditions upon approval
Requirements for Engineered Improvements
   
153.090   Roadway improvements; compliance with specifications
   
153.091   Roadway requirements
   
153.092   Improvement of existing adjacent roads
   
153.093   Improvement of access road
   
153.094   Limitation of access
   
153.095   Reserve strips
   
153.096   Road names
   
153.097   Road name signs
   
153.098   Prohibition of signs
Road Layout
   
153.105   Arrangement
   
153.106   Topography
   
153.107   Existing road patterns
   
153.108   Traffic generators
   
153.109   Roads along boundary lines
   
153.110   Traffic control
   
153.111   Road rights-of-way
Road Design Standards
   
153.120   Road widths
   
153.121   Grades
   
153.122   Geometrics
   
153.123   Cross section
   
153.124   Minimum radii
   
153.125   Intersections
   
153.126   Cul-de-sacs
   
153.127   Pavement structure
   
153.128   Curbs and gutters
   
153.129   Seeding
Drainage and Storm Sewer Facilities
   
153.140   On-site storm water detention
   
153.141   Storm sewer facility requirements
   
153.142   Culverts
   
153.143   Ditches
   
153.144   Bridges
   
153.145   Flood plain areas
   
153.146   Drainage easements
Dams and Impoundment Structures
   
153.150   Supervision by structural engineer required
   
153.151   Earth dams
   
153.152   Masonry dams
   
153.153   Existing dams
Water Supply Facilities
   
153.160   Compliance with standard requirements; inspection
   
153.161   Community water systems
   
153.162   Individual wells
   
153.163   Fire hydrants
Sanitary Sewage Disposal Facilities
   
153.170   Community sewer facilities
   
153.171   Individual disposal systems
   
153.172   Community treatment facilities
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to allow and encourage, where
consistent with good community planning, the development of residential
subdivisions which are somewhat rural in character and provide optional
alternative regulations to be followed in place of those set out in Chapter
152. No part of this chapter is to be construed as repealing Chapter 152.
   (B)   This chapter regulating the subdivision of land is hereby made a part
of the Official Plan of Winthrop Harbor and contiguous areas. It is to provide
for the harmonious development of the village and its environs; for the
coordination of streets within new subdivisions with other existing or planned
streets; for the dedication and acceptance of land required for schools, parks,
playgrounds, and other public uses; for the preparation of subdivision plans
and the procedure for the submittal, approval, and recording of subdivision
plats in and about the village in accordance with the authority vested in the
municipality under the provisions of the "Revised Cities and Villages Act" of
the state.
   (C)   All lands offered to the village for use as streets, highways, alleys,
parks, and other public use, shall be referred to the Plan Commission for
review and recommendation before being accepted by the Village Board or by any
other governing authority.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A.A.S.H.T.O. The American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials.
   ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES MANUAL. The current Manual of Administrative
Policies as published by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ALLEY. A minor traffic facility which is used primarily for vehicular access
to the back or side of properties abutting upon and having access to another
traffic facility.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The building department of the village acting through
its designated building inspectors.
   COLLECTOR ROAD. A road designed for moderate volumes of traffic and extends
for some distance collecting and distributing traffic between major arterials
and local roads.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The official plan of Winthrop Harbor as adopted by the
Village Board.
   CONSERVATION, DEPARTMENT OF. The Illinois Department of Conservation.
   COUNTY. Lake County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Lake County.
   COUNTY CLERK. The County Clerk of Lake County.
   COUNTY RECORDER. The Recorder of Deeds of Lake County.
   COUNTY TREASURER. The Treasurer of Lake County.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A road ending in a turnaround, designed and intended as a
permanent terminus.
   DEVELOPER. Any person subdividing or resubdividing, erecting structures, or
causing to have made any improvements to land.
   DEVELOPMENT. The total improvement of land through building and development
of housing, commercial, and recreational uses in a coordinated manner,
including the division, or redivision of any tract or parcel of land.
   ENGINEER. A professional engineer registered as such and licensed to
practice in the State of Illinois.
   E.P.A. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EXPRESSWAY. A fully access controlled divided facility serving high traffic
volumes at moderate to high speeds and designed to move vehicular traffic
between communities or other large areas.
   FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The specific design of all physical planning and
engineering elements necessary to develop the land in substantial compliance
with the approved preliminary development plan.
   HALF ROAD. That road which may ultimately be part of a full road in a
development which is providing frontage along one side only. The width shall be
at least 50% of the ultimate required road width.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Lake County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Administrator of the Lake County Health Department.
   HIGHWAY DESIGN MANUAL. The current design manual as published by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
   HIGHWAY STANDARDS MANUAL. The current standards manual as published by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
   INTERMITTENT STREAM. A stream or portion of a stream that flows only in
direct response to precipitation. It receives little or no water from springs
and no long-continued supply from melting snow or other sources. It is
ordinarily dry for more than three months of the year.
   LOCAL ROAD. A road which serves relatively low volumes of traffic in
residential areas, subdivisions, and rural areas.
   MAJOR ARTERIAL. A facility serving traffic volumes of medium high speed and
is usually the main roadway connecting municipalities.
   MARGINAL ACCESS ROAD. A local road which is adjacent to or is included in
the right-of-way of an expressway, major arterial, collector road, railroad, or
utility right-of-way and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
   N.S.S.D. The North Shore Sanitary District.
   OWNER. Any person having any legal, equitable, or beneficial interest in the
land sought to be subdivided or resubdivided.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. As defined in the Highway Design Manual.
   PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The general design of land to be developed. It
is the general concept and design of all physical planning elements related to
the rational and economic development of land together with the application of
services adequate to support the development of the land.
   PRIVATE ROAD. A road in which no public interest is shown. Such a road is
not eligible for public maintenance or improvements and must provide a private
means of snow removal. It must conform to all the standards and specifications
of this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a road,
crosswalk, railroad, sanitary or storm sewer, electric transmission line, oil
or gas pipeline, or for any other special use.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. The current standard specifications for road and
bridge construction adopted by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   STRUCTURAL ENGINEER. A structural engineer registered as such and licensed
to practice in the state.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person subdividing or resubdividing land for themselves or
for another.
   SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision or redivision of any subdivision, tract,
parcel, or lot of land into two or more parts by means of mapping, platting,
conveyance, change or rearrangement of boundaries or otherwise, and shall also
relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided where
appropriate to the context.
     SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered as such in the state.
     TRAFFIC CONTROL MANUAL. The current manual for "Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways" as published by the Illinois Department of
Transportation.
   TRAFFIC FACILITY. Any public or private right-of-way used for or to be used
for travel whether designated as an expressway, highway, arterial, road,
street, thoroughfare, avenue, lane, place, alley, or however otherwise
designated.
   TRANSPORTATION, DEPARTMENT OF. The Illinois Department of Transportation.
   U.S.G.S. The United States Geological Survey, an agency of the United States
Department of the Interior.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The registered professional engineer designated in that
capacity by the village.
   WATERWAY. A natural course or constructed channel for the flow of water
including but not limited to a river, channel, canal, or other navigable body
of water used for travel or transport.
   WATERWAYS, DIVISION OF. The Illinois Division of Waterways, a division of
the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The village zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.003 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Rural Subdivision Control Ordinance."
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.004 ADOPTION OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   Sections 152.03, 152.06, 152.25, 152.26, 152.41 through 152.84, and 152.99
of this code are hereby adopted in their entirety by reference. Furthermore,
all constructed improvements shall comply with provisions herein as well as the
provisions of §§ 152.90 through 152.94.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
REQUIREMENTS FOR PLATTED IMPROVEMENTS,
RESUBDIVISIONS, DEDICATIONS, AND VACATIONS
§ 153.010 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   The design of a subdivision shall conform to the comprehensive plan, the
master sewer and water plan, the design and construction policy for
improvements, the zoning ordinance, the requirements as stated herein, all
ordinances pertaining to the control of land development, and to all applicable
rules, regulations, specifications, and standards.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.011 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   All federal, state, county, or official bench marks, monuments, or
triangulation stations in or adjacent to the subdivision shall be preserved.
When a proposed improvement in a subdivision makes necessary the moving of
bench marks, monuments, or triangulation stations, the authority having
jurisdiction shall be notified and given sufficient time to take appropriate
action.
   (B)   Permanent monuments shall be erected at the intersection of all right-
of-way lines and all points where right-of-way lines intersect the exterior
lines of the subdivision and at all lot corners, block corners, angles in lot
lines, points of beginning or ends of curves and in all places and manner
prescribed in Article 109-1 of the Illinois Revised Statutes, as amended. All
permanent monuments shall be in place and shall be buried no more than six
inches below the finished ground surface at the time of completion of all
grading work.
   (C)   Permanent monuments shall be either:
      (1)   Galvanized iron pipe not less than 3/4-inch in diameter and not
less than 22 inches in length;
      (2)   Solid square or round iron bars, 22 inches in length but having a
minimum weight of 1.043 pounds/lineal foot.
      (3)   Stone or concrete, 30 inches long by 4 inches square or 5 inches in
diameter.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.012 CHARACTER OF THE LAND.
   The design of each subdivision shall take into consideration the capacities
and limitations of topography, drainage, soils, and other features of the site.
The use of lands unsuited to development because of, but not limited to, flood,
inundation, soil series, and soil character shall not be approved unless the
development of said lands shall meet the requirements of the agencies
concerned. Guarantees in connection with said lands may be required.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
LOT IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.020 LOT ARRANGEMENT.
   The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography or conditions, in securing building
permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning ordinance and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.021 LINES AND DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   The minimum lot width shall be 120 feet at the road right-of-way line
for lots not fronting on cul- de-sacs.
   (B)   The minimum lot area shall be 17,500 square feet for lots not fronting
on cul-de-sacs.
   (C)   Lots fronting on cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum width of 75 feet at
the building line.
   (D)   Lots fronting on cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum area of 20,000
square feet.
   (E)   Lots shall not have unusual or irregular shapes which are not
conducive to building or efficient land use.
   (F)   Side lot lines, as nearly as practicable, shall be at right angles to
or radial to right-of-way lines.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76; Am. Ord. 2001-O-17, passed 7-3-01)
§ 153.022 SETBACK LINES.
   Minimum setback requirements for buildings and structures are stipulated in
the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.023 ACCESS TO LOTS.
   All lots shall front directly on and have direct access to a road approved
by the village. A notation shall appear on the final plat where access is
prohibited.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.024 CORNER LOTS.
   All corner lots shall have sufficient extra width to permit appropriate
building setback lines as required by the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.025 FRONTAGE LOTS.
   Residential lots adjoining a major arterial, collector road, railroad, or
land zoned for business or industrial use shall have a minimum lot depth equal
to the minimum allowable lot area in square feet divided by the minimum lot
frontage as provided for by the zoning ordinance. A planting screen easement,
upon which there shall be no right of access, may be required on such frontage
lots.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.026 REVERSE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.027 LOTS AFFECTED BY SURFACE WATERS.
   If any portion of a lot falls within the boundaries of a flood plain, or if
a lot is traversed by an intermittent stream or waterway, that portion of such
lot shall be excluded from the buildable area of that lot. When this situation
results in the separation of the buildable area of a lot from the road by which
it has access, provisions shall be made for the installation of a culvert or
other structure of a design approved by the village or the county, whichever
best protects the property involved.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
BLOCKS
§ 153.035 DESIGN.
   The length, width, and shape of blocks shall be determined with due regard
for the following:
   (A)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the use contemplated;
   (B)   Zoning requirements as to lot size and dimension;
   (C)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of road
traffic;
   (D)   Limitations and capabilities of topography, soils, and drainage.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.036 LENGTH.
   No block shall exceed 1300 feet in length or be less than 400 feet in length
except where required by unusual topographic conditions. However, blocks of
only one lot in width adjacent to expressways, major arterials, and collector
roads shall have a minimum length of one-quarter mile as provided by the
provisions of this chapter, unless other limitations preclude it. In long
blocks, the village may require a reservation or an easement through the block
to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities, or pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.037 CROSSWALKS.
   Where blocks exceed 1000 feet in length or where orientation or pedestrian
circulation requirements indicate, the village may require crosswalks to be
provided. Such crosswalks shall have a right-of-way width of not less than 15
feet.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
RESOURCE PRESERVATION
§ 153.045 SOIL PRESERVATION.
   All subdivisions shall be subject to any applicable soil erosion and
sedimentation control regulations.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.046 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES.
   Existing features which would add value to residential development and to
the village as a whole, such as trees, watercourses, beaches, historic sites,
and similar irreplaceable assets shall be preserved insofar as practicable.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
RESUBDIVISION
§ 153.055 RESUBDIVISION IN LIEU OF VACATION.
   It shall not be necessary to vacate a plat, or part thereof, in order to
proceed with the resubdivision of said plat, or part thereof; provided, any
dedications to the public of roads or other public lands in the original
subdivision must be rededicated in the resubdivision; provided further, that
the resubdivision retain any easements or rights-of-way for public utilities
appearing in the original subdivision. Such resubdivision according to the
procedure and standards for subdivisions required by this chapter shall
automatically constitute vacation of a prior plat or part thereof. However, if
it is proposed to vacate any roads or other public grounds or if the rights of
public utilities in any easements or rights-of-way are proposed to be abridged,
the plat must be vacated under the procedures set forth in §§
153.080 through
153.084.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.056 EXISTING SUBDIVISIONS.
      Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided, and the subdivision plat shows
one or more lots containing more than one acre of land, and indications are
that such lots will eventually be resubdivided into smaller building sites, the
village may require that such parcel of land allow for the future opening of
roads and the ultimate extension of adjacent roads. Easements providing for the
future opening and extension of such roads may be made a requirement of the
plat.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
DEDICATIONS, EASEMENTS, AND RESERVATIONS
§ 153.065 AREAS REQUIRED TO BE DEDICATED.
   (A)   All roads created by a subdivision or resubdivision as dedicated to
the public are required to be dedicated. If a road is to be privately
maintained, such notation shall also appear on the plat. Privately maintained
roads, however, are discouraged, and a clear need for same shall be
demonstrated.
   (B)   Where a subdivision abuts on an existing road and the provisions of
this chapter or another governing agency require an additional width of right-
of-way, the subdivider shall dedicate same.
   (C)   Pedestrian ways bisecting long blocks, or wherever else located, shall
be dedicated to the public.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.066 DEDICATION OF PARKS AND RECREATION SITES.
   Parks and recreation sites to meet the needs of the entire proposed
subdivision may be required in subdivisions of 50 or more lots, and having a
lot size less than two acres. The location and suitability of the sites must be
approved by the village. Where subdividers are required to provide park and
recreation sites, the subdivider shall dedicate such sites to the village and
they must be properly graded, seeded, and mulched.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.067 DEDICATION OF WATER AND SEWERAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   All community water supply and distribution facilities required and
constructed under the provisions of this chapter shall be dedicated to the
village.
   (B)   It is presumed that developers will proceed in accordance with the
master plans for sewer and water in the village. In those instances where
implementation of the master plan will not begin in the immediate future,
interim plans may be considered provided they are in compliance with the
Comprehensive Plan and an agreement is executed with the village.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.068 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   Easements shall be provided for any overhead or underground utility service
including but not limited to sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water, gas,
telephone, and electric service, the easements shall have a minimum width of
ten feet. Where it is intended that both overhead and underground utilities
shall share the same easement, additional width sufficient to avoid conflict
shall be provided. An easement shall be established along rear lot lines and
such other lot lines as are required to provide continuity of alignment
throughout the area to be served. A utility easement for the construction of
the aforementioned underground services may be included on all road rights-of-
way.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.069 BUFFER ZONE.
   Planting strips or other buffer zones located between incompatible uses or
wherever required shall be shown as easements.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.070 VACATION.
   (A)   Whenever the area being subdivided embraces all or part of any lands
shown on the comprehensive plan for a road, school, forest preserve, or other
community facility or any public use, all land so designated shall be dedicated
or reserved for that proposed use, and it shall be reserved by the subdivider
for a period of not more than five years from the date of approval of the final
plat, during which time it shall be made available for sale to the public
agency concerned. If the sale price cannot be agreed upon, the fair cash market
value of the property may be established by an appraiser acceptable to all
parties. The sale price shall be based on the fair cash market value of the
property as of the date of the filing of the first tentative plat.
   (B)   If the appropriate public agency having jurisdiction has not, within
five years of the approval of the final plat, acquired the site reserved for a
public use, the subdivider may use it for any purpose permitted by the
applicable regulations then in effect.
   (C)   The power to accept any dedications, easements, or any other real
property or rights for public use and maintenance in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be reserved exclusively to the village. The
right of refusal of any dedications, easements, reservations, or other rights
shall also be reserved to the village.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
VACATION OF PLATS AND ROADS
§ 153.080 FILING.
   A petition shall be filed by the applicant of the proposed vacation with the
village.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.081 PETITION FORM AND CONTENT.
   (A)   A certified statement of the assessed valuation of all properties
surrounding a public right-of-way to be vacated shall be furnished.
   (B)   Eight copies of a certified plat or applicable part thereof bearing
the certificate of a surveyor shall be furnished. The plat shall show the
portion to be vacated outlined or shaded so that it may be readily identified.
There should also appear on the plat a legal description of the property to be
vacated as well as an area 200 feet beyond the boundary of that part to be
vacated.
   (C)   The following documents shall be required:
      (1)   Resolution of vacation;
      (2)   Deed of vacation;
      (3)   Two signed originals and six copies of the petition;
      (4)   Two signed originals and six copies of the County Clerk's
certificate.
   (D)   The County Clerk's certificate shall be in substantially the following
form:
   STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
                    ) SS
   COUNTY OF LAKE    )
I,                  , County Clerk of Lake County, Illinois, do hereby certify
that there are no delinquent general taxes, and no redeemable tax sales against
any of the land included in the following described property:
(Description of subdivision or part of subdivision to be vacated or of lots
adjacent to road (alley) to be vacated).
Given under my hand and seal of the County, at Waukegan, Illinois, this     day
of     A.D. 19   
(SEAL)                                                               
                        COUNTY CLERK
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.082 NOTIFICATION.
   Notification of a petition of vacation shall be forwarded to the village, as
well as all public and private utility companies and all property owners and
other concerned parties as required by law.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.083 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall hear all petitions for vacation.
   (B)   All vacations of plats and roads or parts thereof shall have a public
hearing and notice shall be published as provided by law.
   (C)   The village shall prepare minutes of said hearing and shall make a
determination of its findings in writing.
   (D)   The village shall make its decision in form of a motion. The motion
shall state either denial, approval, or approval in part.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.084 CONDITIONS UPON APPROVAL.
   (A)   Nothing contained herein nor in any required certificate, shall be
deemed in any way to limit the right or the authority of the village to vacate
any plat or part thereof or any right-of-way or easement or part thereof where
it finds that such vacation shall serve the public interest.
   (B)   The village may require the petitioner to furnish bond or an
irrevocable line of credit in an amount sufficient to protect the village,
indemnifying it for any suit which may be filed for damages sustained as a
result of such vacation.
   (C)   Bonded contracts for the improvement of platted roads or alleys shall
be automatically canceled upon vacation of such platted roads or alleys.
   (D)   The vacation of any plat or part thereof, or right-of-way easement or
part thereof shall not be deemed to be a vacation of the rights of any public
utility where said public utility has installed its underground facilities
therein.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
REQUIREMENTS FOR ENGINEERED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.090 ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS; COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS.
   All roadway improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the
"Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction in Illinois," latest
edition. The construction plans shall be submitted prior to final plat
approval.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.091 ROADWAY REQUIREMENTS.
   No subdivision plat shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided or
resubdivided shall have frontage on or can be provided with access to the
following:
   (A)   An existing major arterial, collector, or local road; or
   (B)   A road shown upon a plat recorded in the office of the County
Recorder.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.092 IMPROVEMENT OF EXISTING ADJACENT ROADS.
   Whenever land adjacent to an existing road is subdivided with lots facing or
having direct access thereon and said road is not improved to a standard as
high as that required for the proposed subdivision road, the subdivider may be
required to improve said road if said road is used for access to said lots.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.093 IMPROVEMENT OF ACCESS ROAD.
   Where a subdivision does not front on a road, and the access road does not
lie within the subdivision, not less than one road of full width shall be
provided to furnish the subdivision with access to an existing road. Said
access road shall be improved by the subdivider to at least the standard
required for the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.094 LIMITATION OF ACCESS.
   Where a proposed subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed
collector road or major arterial, the village requires that access to such road
be limited by one of the following means:
   (A)   All access to lots in the proposed subdivision shall be from local
roads within said subdivision.
   (B)   Subdividing the lots so they will back onto the collector road or
major arterial and front onto a parallel local road. No access shall be
provided from said collector road or major arterial, and screening may be
required in a strip of land along the rear property line of such lots.
   (C)   A marginal access road may be built which separates the collector road
or major arterial by a planting or grass strip and having access thereto at
suitable points.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.095 RESERVE STRIPS.
   A reserve strip controlling access to a road will generally not be
permitted. In special cases where such a strip is requested, it may be
permitted only when dedicated and accepted by the village.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.096 ROAD NAMES.
   Road names shall not be confusingly similar to or duplicate any other road
in the village or adjacent townships or municipalities. New roads which are
extensions or in alignment with existing roads shall bear the name of the
existing road. The names of all roads shall be approved by the village.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.097 ROAD NAME SIGNS.
   Signs giving the names of roads shall be erected at all road intersections
within the subdivision. Signs and sign posts shall meet the minimum
requirements as set forth in §§ 152.90 through 152.94.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.098 PROHIBITION OF SIGNS.
   Only authorized signs shall be permitted to be placed, displayed, or
maintained within the right-of- way of any major arterial, collector road, or
local road.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76) Penalty, see §
153.999
ROAD LAYOUT
§ 153.105 ARRANGEMENT.
   (A)   The arrangement of roads shall provide for the continuation of roads
between and to adjacent properties when such continuation is necessary for
convenient movement of traffic, effective fire protection, and for the
efficient provision of utilities. If the adjacent property is undeveloped, a
temporary cul-de-sac shall be provided and the right-of-way shall be extended
to the boundary line of the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   A temporary "T" shaped turnaround may be provided on all temporary
culs-de-sac with a notation on the subdivision plat that land outside the
normal right-of-way shall revert to the adjacent landowners whenever the road
is extended.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.106 TOPOGRAPHY.
   Roads shall be related appropriately to topography, soils, and drainage.
Local roads shall be curved wherever possible to avoid conformity of lot
appearance. All roads shall be arranged so as to obtain as many building sites
as possible at or above the grades of the roads. The grades of the roads shall
conform as closely as possible to the original topography. A combination of
steep grades and curves shall be avoided.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.107 EXISTING ROAD PATTERNS.
   All roads shall be properly integrated with the existing or proposed network
of roads. The rigid rectangular road pattern need not necessarily be adhered to
and the use of curvilinear roads, culs-de-sac, or U shaped roads shall be
encouraged where such will result in a more desirable layout.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.108 TRAFFIC GENERATORS.
   All roads shall be properly related to special traffic generators such as
industries, business districts, schools, churches, and shopping centers, to
population densities, and to the pattern of existing and proposed land uses.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.109 ROADS ALONG BOUNDARY LINES.
   No roads shall be laid out on the boundary of the subdivision. Exceptions to
this may be permitted where such roads are desirable for future expansion or
where such roads conform to the existing or proposed network of roads.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.110 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   The subdivider shall provide traffic signals, channelization, and lane
additions when the traffic generation is sufficient to warrant said
improvements within a 12-month period, all in accordance with the standards of
the Traffic Control Manual.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.111 ROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Every right-of-way established for subdivision purposes is to be
separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and
not included within the dimension or areas of such lots or parcels. All rights
of-way shall be dedicated to the village by the subdivider.
   (B)   Minimum right-of-way widths shall be as designated by the Department
of Transportation or as determined by the Highway Department. The right-of-way
required to be dedicated shall not exceed 150 feet nor shall a dedication of
the right-of-way for an expressway be required. In all other instances the
following table shall apply:
 
                                                                                 120
Major arterials and collector roads maintained by the Department of              -
Transportation (existing or proposed as shown on the Official Highway Map)       150
                                                                                 feet
   Collector roads maintained by the Highway Department (existing or proposed 80 -
shown on the Official Highway Map)                                               120
                                                                                 feet
 
Local roads - with ditch drainage           66 feet
            - with storm sewers             60 feet
Marginal access road                        40 feet
Half road                                   33 - 40 feet
Alleys                                      20 feet
20 feet
Half roads will generally not be permitted.
 
   (C)   The extension of an existing road, with a deficient right-of-way width
or a deficient road width, into a proposed subdivision may be made at the
existing width provided that:
      (1)   The road in the proposed subdivision is a cul-de-sac; or
      (2)   Where it can be clearly demonstrated that extension of the road
beyond the proposed subdivision is not in the public interest.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
ROAD DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.120 ROAD WIDTHS.
   The following road widths shall be considered as the minimum requirements:
   Collector roads shall have a width of 34 feet of paving laid upon a 36-foot
wide base. Local roads shall have a width of 22 feet of paving laid upon a 24-
foot wide base.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.121 GRADES.
   The maximum grade for collector roads and roads of higher classification
shall not exceed 6%. The maximum grade for all other roads shall not exceed 8%.
In no case shall the grade of any road be less than 0.40%, but a minimum grade
of 0.60% is preferred. Grades shall be shown on the plans at a minimum of every
100 feet.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.122 GEOMETRICS.
   (A)   Road geometrics shall conform to the design standards established in
the Highway Design Manual. Roads shall be designed on the basis of the
following design speeds:
      Collector roads - 40 mph
      Local roads    - 30 mph
All design standards are subject to the minimum requirements as specified
herein.
   (B)   Angles on the centerlines of roads shall not be permitted except at
intersections. Centerline radii shall be as follows:
      Collector roads - 250 feet
      Local and all other roads - 100 feet.
   (C)   Vertical curves shall be required where the algebraic difference in
grades is 2% or greater. In no case shall a vertical curve at a road
intersection be less than 50 feet.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.123 CROSS SECTION.
   (A)   The crown of the pavement from the centerline to the edge of pavement
shall be 1/4 inch per foot. If the topography warrants, a shallow swale shall
be provided in order to properly channel the runoff into catch basins or
inlets. In general, cut or fill slopes shall be as flat as topography permits
but in no case shall they be steeper than three to one.
   (B)   The aggregate base course shall have a width of 24 feet and the
bituminous surfacing shall have a width of 22 feet on local roads, and 36 feet
and 34 feet respectively on collector roads. The slope of the pavement shall be
1/4 inch per foot. Earth shoulders shall be provided and shall be five feet in
width measured from the edge of the base course. The slope of the shoulder
shall be ½ inch per foot. The minimum distance from the edge of the shoulder to
the edge of the two foot flat bottom ditch shall be six feet. The ditch shall
be a minimum of one and one-half feet below the edge of the shoulder. In
general, cut or fill slopes shall be as flat as the topography permits, but in
no case shall they be steeper than three to one.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.124 MINIMUM RADII.
   (A)   At the intersection of local roads with collector roads, the minimum
radii at the right-of-way lines shall be 25 feet. The minimum radius at the
pavement shall be 35 feet.
   (B)   At the intersection of all local roads, the minimum radii at the
right-of-way lines shall be 25 feet and the minimum radius at the pavement
shall be 25 feet.
   (C)   At the intersection of local roads with major arterials, all minimum
radii shall be as determined by the Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.125 INTERSECTIONS.
   The intersection of local roads with major arterials or collector roads
shall be limited to not more than one per quarter mile, unless topographic and
physical conditions require a lesser distance. At these intersections
acceleration and deceleration lanes will also be required as well as drainage
facilities. The standards to be used shall be provided by the maintaining
agency. All road intersections shall be at right angles (90 degrees) unless
unusual topographic or other site conditions require a lesser angle. In no case
shall road intersections be less than 60 degrees. In all cases, road
intersections shall be laid out to best facilitate the safe flow of traffic. In
no case shall the junctions be set off less than 150 feet, measured from the
centerline.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.126 CUL-DE-SACS.
   A cul-de-sac shall be provided at the end of a permanent dead-end road. It
shall not be more than 500 feet in length measured from the centerline of the
road of origin. Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus generally circular in
shape with a diameter of 120 feet and a center on or within 30 feet of the cul-
de-sac centerline. The pavement shall have a minimum diameter of 80 feet. Where
circumstances warrant, a T-turnaround may be approved by the village.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.127 PAVEMENT STRUCTURE.
   (A)   For collector roads the minimum requirements are as follows:
      (1)   A bituminous surface plant mix, Class I, having a thickness of at
least three inches on an aggregate base course, Type CA-6, having a minimum
thickness of ten inches.
      (2)   Bituminous surface plant mix, Class I, having a thickness of at
least two inches on a bituminous aggregate mixture base course having a
thickness of at least six inches.
      (3)   A bituminous surface plant mix, Class I, having a thickness of at
least two inches on a pozzolanic base course, having a thickness of at least
seven inches.
      (4)   Portland cement concrete pavement having a thickness of at least
seven inches.
   (B)   For local roads the minimum requirements are as follows:
      (1)   A bituminous surface plant mix, Class I, having a thickness of at
least two inches on an aggregate base course, Type CA-6, having a minimum
thickness of eight inches.
      (2)   Bituminous surface plant mix, Class I, having a thickness of at
least two inches on a bituminous aggregate mixture base course having a
thickness of at least five inches.
      (3)   A bituminous surface plant mix, Class I, having a thickness of at
least two inches on a pozzolanic base course, having a thickness of at least
six inches.
      (4)   Portland cement concrete pavement having a thickness of at least
six inches.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.128 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   Curbs and gutters shall be required along all roadways that shall be
hereafter planned, built or installed within the village unless the Village
Engineer shall certify that there exist unusual topographic, erosive or other
site-specific conditions which shall render the same impractical or unsound
based upon a reasonable degree of scientific and engineering certainty. All
roadways planned, built or installed within the village which connect to
existing roads served by ditches and shoulders shall be designed and engineered
to transition smoothly with the curbs, gutters and storm sewers in the new
roadway as may be directed by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76; Am. Ord. 1999-O-21, passed 9-21-99)
§ 153.129 SEEDING.
   All earth surfaces disturbed by the construction operations shall be
fertilized, seeded, and mulched in accordance with the Standard Specifications.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWER FACILITIES
§ 153.140 ON-SITE STORM WATER DETENTION.
   All subdivisions of five acres or larger shall have on-site storm water
detention facilities. These shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the latest state, county, or village requirements which best protect the
property involved, in order to provide detention for the 100-year frequency
storm on the developed site with a maximum release rate as produced by the
three-year storm on the undeveloped site.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.141 STORM SEWER FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Storm water drainage shall be accomplished through use of storm sewers
unless the Village Engineer shall certify that there exist unusual topographic,
erosive or other site-specific conditions which shall render the same
impractical or unsound based upon a reasonable degree of scientific and
engineering certainty. All drainage systems planned, built or installed within
the village which connect to existing ditches shall be designed and engineered
to transition smoothly with the storm sewers in the new installations as may be
directed by the Village Engineer.
   (B)   The design and construction of storm sewers shall be in conformance
with the Standard Specifications, the Highway Standards Manual, and the Highway
Design Manual. The storm sewer system shall be designed by the "rational
method" with self-cleaning velocities in conformance with the following
requirements:
      (1)   That part of the system which serves as main or terminal collector
shall be of sufficient capacity to carry the maximum discharge for a storm of
ten-year frequency.
      (2)   Those parts of the system which serve as lateral collectors, and
which can readily be augmented by future additions, shall be of sufficient
capacity to carry the maximum discharge for a storm of five-year frequency.
      (3)   The Village Engineer shall select coefficients of runoff based on
the types of development anticipated in all parts of the watershed affecting
the drainage structure.
      (4)   The system shall include all necessary appurtenances such as
inlets, catch basins, and manholes as may be required for proper operation and
maintenance.
      (5)   In those cases where a subdivision is subject to storm water flow
from adjoining properties, provisions shall be made to provide for unrestricted
flow of that volume of water generated by the adjoining land for a storm of
100-year frequency. The subdivider may be permitted
to substitute for the storm sewer an open ditch. Such ditch shall comply with
grading, seeding, sodding, and easement specifications of this chapter or the
county requirements, whichever best protects all the property involved.
      (6)   All storm sewers shall be at least 12 inches in diameter except
that a ten-inch diameter may be used for connecting a single structure to a
manhole.
      (7)   Special considerations shall be given to the avoidance of problems
which may arise from the concentration of storm water runoff onto adjacent
property. All storm drainage shall be conducted or connected to an approved
outfall and shall be included in the subdivider's plans for storm water
management in accordance with the requirements of the county.
   (C)    Related structures.
      (1)   Catch basins, manholes, inlets, frames, and grates shall conform to
the Highway Standards Manual and the Standard Specifications.
      (2)   The spacing of pavement drainage structures shall be at maximum
intervals of 400 feet.
      (3)   No field tile shall be permitted to remain under the roadway. It
shall be replaced with load bearing tile and where feasible shall be
incorporated into the proposed storm sewer system.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76; Am. Ord. 1999-O-21, passed 9-21-99)
§ 153.142 CULVERTS.
   The size and capacity of all drainage structures shall be computed using the
"rational method". The minimum length of culverts shall be at least equal to
the distance from edge of shoulder to edge of shoulder, plus six times the
vertical distance from the edge of shoulder to the flow line of the culvert
less end section length. No driveway culvert shall have a diameter of less than
12 inches, and no crossroad culvert shall have a diameter of less than 15
inches. In no case shall a driveway culvert be less than 20 feet in length.
Material in culverts which exceed 100 feet in length shall be limited to those
permitted for storm sewers as specified in the Standard Specifications. All
crossroad culverts shall have end protection in the form of either concrete
headwalls or prefabricated end sections.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.143 DITCHES.
   Roadside ditches shall be designed based on a ten-year storm frequency and
ditch protection shall be provided if calculations indicate erosive velocities
will be reached.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.144 BRIDGES.
   All bridges and culverts having a span of more than 20 feet shall be
designed by a registered structural engineer.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.145 FLOOD PLAIN AREAS.
   Filling of flood plain areas is discouraged and shall be minimized. Where
filling is permitted, compensatory flood storage shall be provided elsewhere on
the site as may be required in the regulations of the county.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.146 DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   (A)   When a subdivision is traversed by a waterway or intermittent stream,
there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way
conforming substantially with the lines of same, and such easement shall
include an additional area at least 15 feet in width adjoining one edge of the
waterway or intermittent stream that measures 20 feet or less from bank to
bank. Where the distance from bank to bank is more than 20 feet such easement
shall include an additional area at least 15 feet in width adjoining both edges
of the waterway or intermittent stream. Where ditch drainage is used in lieu of
storm sewers, as may be permitted herein, the easement shall be of sufficient
width to allow future construction of a storm sewer main adequate to carry the
ultimate runoff of the watershed. Such easement shall be not less than 20 feet
in width.
   (B)   The 15 feet working area adjoining a stream shall be continuous
through the subdivision and adjoin existing easements. The area of any public
way immediately adjacent to the waterway or intermittent stream may be taken
into consideration in providing said 15-foot working area.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
DAMS AND IMPOUNDMENT STRUCTURES
§ 153.150 SUPERVISION BY STRUCTURAL ENGINEER REQUIRED.
   Dams for water impoundments, pools, ponds, reservoirs, and small lakes shall
be planned, designed, and constructed under the supervision of a structural
engineer and shall meet the approval of the Division of Waterways, Department
of Conservation, and the Lake County Public Works Department. A subsurface soil
investigation prepared by a recognized soil consultant shall be submitted to
the above agencies.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.151 EARTH DAMS.
   Minimum requirements for earth dams shall be as follows:
   (A)   A minimum thickness of 24 inches of an impervious clay or equivalent
is required for dams up to 12 feet in height. The entire area of the foundation
shall be free of all top soil, roots, vegetation, stones, rock, or debris and
shall be plowed and roughed up to provide an interlocking tight bond with the
new fill.
   (B)   A clay core shall be constructed within the middle one-third of the
dam, and extending into a ten- foot wide trench excavated at least 12 inches
into impervious clay.
   (C)   The crest shall meet the following requirements:
      10 feet wide for dam under 15 feet in height
      12 feet wide for dam 15 feet to 25 feet in height
      14 feet for dam over 25 feet in height
and shall provide for a minimum of one foot of free board above the water
surface in the reservoir with the emergency spillway flowing at design depth.
In all cases the top of the dam must be at least two feet above emergency
spillway crest.
   (D)   The upstream slope shall not be steeper than two feet horizontal to
one foot vertical and shall be sufficiently protected from ice and wave action
by an impervious earth blanket, ripraps, concrete, or berms constructed at the
normal pool elevation. The downstream slope shall not be steeper than two and
one-half feet horizontal to one foot vertical and shall be protected from
erosion by a growth of permanent sod.
   (E)   Sufficient drainage and "reverse filtering" facilities to insure the
permanent stability of the dam and its foundation shall be provided. Proper
precautions shall be taken to prevent any seepage along drainpipes running
through the dam.
   (F)   Facilities for handling the maximum normal surplus waters shall be
provided, together with a sodded relief spillway constructed 12 inches above
the pool level. Proper precautions shall be taken to prevent seepage along any
of the spillway facilities constructed within the dam. All dams over five feet
high shall be sodded.
   (G)   All materials, equipment, and construction methods shall conform to
the standards of the County Public Works Department.
   (H)   In those cases where failure of the structure could result in loss of
life or extensive property damage, additional requirements may be made.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.152 MASONRY DAMS.
   Minimum requirements for masonry dams shall include provisions to insure
proper foundation bearing and for the prevention of slippage, excessive
seepage, piping, and scouring. The structure shall be designed by a structural
engineer. The design and construction requirements shall conform to the
A.A.S.H.T.O. specifications and the Standard Specifications.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.153 EXISTING DAMS.
   An engineering report shall be submitted to the plat officer on all existing
dams within a proposed subdivision. Any dam found to be structurally unsafe
shall be reconstructed or reinforced in accordance with the above standards.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES
§ 153.160 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARD REQUIREMENTS; INSPECTION.
   All water supply and distribution systems shall be designed and constructed
in accordance with the standard requirements of the village, the County Health
Department, and the Illinois E.P.A. The work shall also be subject to
inspection by these agencies.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.161 COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEMS.
   Every effort shall be made to construct a water system which is connected to
and integral with the village's water supply system. Design and materials of
construction shall conform to §§ 152.90 through 152.94. Due consideration shall
be given to logical extensions of the system and the village's master water
plan. In unusual circumstances the Village Board of Trustees and President may
allow construction of individual wells.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.162 INDIVIDUAL WELLS.
   If allowed, individual wells shall be constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the County Health Department.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.163 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Every community water supply system shall have adequate pipe sizes, water
pressure, and sufficient fire hydrants to supply adequate fire protection in
accordance with state standards.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES
§ 153.170 COMMUNITY SEWER FACILITIES.
   Every effort shall be made to construct a sanitary sewer system which is
contiguous to and integral with the village's sewer system. Design and
materials of construction shall comply with §§ 152.90 through 152.94. Due
consideration shall be given to logical extensions of the system and the
village's master sewer plan. All improvements shall be designed and constructed
in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois E.P.A., the North Short
Sanitary District, and the village.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.171 INDIVIDUAL DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   Where it can be demonstrated that connection to the village sewer system is
unduly burdensome, the Village Board of Trustees and President may allow
construction of individual disposal systems. It must be further demonstrated
that soil and ground water conditions are compatible with individual disposal
systems. Disposal systems shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the village plumbing code and the requirements of the County Health Department.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.172 COMMUNITY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Inasmuch as the village receives sanitary waste treatment from the North
Shore Sanitary District, construction of community treatment facilities will
not be allowed.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   All persons, firms, or corporations violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not less than $25 nor more than $200. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 76-O-10, passed 9-21-76)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Intent and purpose
   
154.003   Definitions
   
154.004   Exemptions
   
154.005   Interpretation
   
154.006   Scope of regulations
   
154.007   Annexed land
   
154.008   Lots of record
   
154.009   Number of buildings on a lot
   
154.010   Accessory structures
   
154.011   Permitted obstructions in yards
   
154.012   Front footage and access to lots
   
154.013   Covered decks and porches
District Regulations
   
154.020   Districts
   
154.021   Zoning map
   
154.022   Boundaries
   
154.023   Permitted uses
   
154.024   [Reserved]
   
154.025   Lot size requirements
   
154.026   Building bulk regulations
   
154.027   Signs
   
154.028   Off-street parking and loading
R-1 Residential District
   
154.035   Permitted uses
   
154.036   [Reserved]
   
154.037   Lot size requirements
   
154.038   Building bulk regulations
R-2 Residential District
   
154.045   Permitted uses
   
154.046   [Reserved]
   
154.047   Lot size requirements
   
154.048   Building bulk regulations
R-3 Residential District
   
154.055   Permitted uses
   
154.056   [Reserved]
   
154.057   Lot size requirements
   
154.058   Building bulk regulations
R-4 Residential District
   
154.065   Permitted uses
   
154.066   [Reserved]
   
154.067   Lot size requirements
   
154.068   Building bulk regulations
   
154.069   Screening and landscaping
   
154.070   Multiple-family dwellings
R-5 Rural Subdivision and R-6 Attached Unit Residential
   
154.075   R-5 Rural Subdivision
   
154.076   R-6 Attached Unit Residential Dwelling Zone
Winthrop Harbor Downtown Zoning Districts
   
154.078   Winthrop Harbor Downtown Zoning Districts
Statutory Business Districts
   
154.080   Statutory business districts
B-1 Retail Business District
   
154.085   Standards
   
154.086   Permitted uses
   
154.087   Conditional/special uses
   
154.088   Lot size requirements
   
154.089   Building bulk regulations
B-2 General Business District
   
154.095   Standards
   
154.096   Permitted uses
   
154.097   Conditional/special uses
   
154.098   Lot size requirements
   
154.099   Building bulk regulations
B-3 Shopping Center District
   
154.105   Purpose
   
154.106   Standards
   
154.107   Permitted uses
   
154.108   [Reserved]
   
154.109   Lot size requirements
   
154.110   Building bulk regulations
   
154.111   Procedure for approval
Storage Districts
   
154.112   B-4 Indoor Storage Business District
   
154.113   B-5 General Storage District
I-1 Limited Industrial District
   
154.120   Standards
   
154.121   Permitted uses
   
154.122   Conditional/special uses
   
154.123   Lot size requirements
   
154.124   Building bulk regulations
I-2 Industrial District
   
154.130   Standards
   
154.131   Permitted uses
   
154.132   [Reserved]
   
154.133   Lot size requirements
   
154.134   Building bulk regulations
Open Space District
   
154.140   Open Space District
Unified Residential Developments
   
154.150   Standards
   
154.151   Restrictions
   
154.152   Procedure for approval
   
154.153   Limitation on subsequent use of open space
B1-M Marine Business District
   
154.154   Standards
   
154.155   Permitted uses
   
154.156   Special uses
   
154.157   Lot size requirements
   
154.158   Building bulk regulations
Signs and Billboards
   
154.160   Signs in residential district
   
154.161   Signs and billboards in B-1 District
   
154.162   Signs in business and industrial districts
   
154.163   Obsolete signs
   
154.164   Permit fees
   
154.165   Mobile signs
   
154.166   Prohibited signs
   
154.167   Temporary signs
   
154.168   Warning signs
   
154.169   Variations and grandfather provision
   
154.170   Exemptions
   
154.171   Removal
Off-Street Parking
   
154.175   Utilization
   
154.176   Area
   
154.177   Access
   
154.178   Open and enclosed parking
   
154.179   Design and maintenance
   
154.180   Computation of parking spaces
   
154.181   Collective provisions
   
154.182   Location
   
154.183   Employee parking
   
154.184   Maximum number of spaces
   
154.185   Required spaces
Off-Street Loading
   
154.190   Location
   
154.191   Area
   
154.192   Access
   
154.193   Surfacing
   
154.194   Repair and service
   
154.195   Utilization
   
154.196   Minimum facilities
   
154.197   Loading berth requirements
Nonconforming Uses
   
154.205   Use prior to February 18, 1964; “Grandfather” provision
   
154.206   Use after February 18, 1964; “Grandfather” provision
   
154.207   Transfer of nonconforming use
   
154.208   Repairs and alterations
   
154.209   Additions and expansions
   
154.210   Discontinuance or abandonment
   
154.211   Restoration of a damaged nonconforming structure
Administration
   
154.215   Administration offices
   
154.216   Duties of office of Zoning Administrator
   
154.217   References
Zoning and Occupancy Certificates
   
154.235   Zoning certificate required
   
154.236   Application for zoning certificate
   
154.237   Issuance of zoning certificate
   
154.238   Application for occupancy certificate
Limited Present Use Designation
   
154.265   Purpose
   
154.266   Application
   
154.267   Standards
   
154.268   Authorized limited present use designations
   
154.269   Fees; recording
Special Uses
   
154.280   Purpose
   
154.281   Authority
   
154.282   Permitted special uses
   
154.283   Standards
   
154.284   Conditions
   
154.285   Procedure
   
154.286   Penalties
Amendments
   
154.290   Amendments to zoning regulations
   
154.291   Initiation of amendments
   
154.292   Application
   
154.293   Processing of applications
   
154.294   Public hearing
   
154.295   Notice of public hearing
   
154.296   Action by Board of Trustees
Site Development Plan Review Procedures
   
154.297   Initiation
   
154.298   Procedure for decision
Planned Unit Developments
   
154.305   Planned unit developments
Home Occupations
   
154.310   Permit
   
154.311   Purpose
   
154.312   Permit procedures
   
154.313   Criteria for major home occupations
   
154.314   Criteria for minor home occupations
   
154.315   Review by Building Inspector
Fees
   
154.320   Fees
   
154.321   Time for application
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
"Winthrop Harbor Zoning Ordinance."
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This zoning chapter, adopted pursuant to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5 §§ 11-13-1 through 11-13-19 of the Illinois Municipal Code as amended from
time to time, is intended to serve the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote the public health, safety, morals, comfort, and general
welfare;
   (B)   To conserve the values of property throughout the village and to
protect the character and stability of residential, business, and industrial
areas, and to promote the orderly and beneficial development of such areas;
   (C)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy, and convenience of access to
property;
   (D)   To lessen or avoid congestion in the public streets and highways;
   (E)   To lessen or avoid hazards to persons and damage to property resulting
from the accumulation or runoff of storm or flood waters;
   (F)   To regulate and restrict the location and use of buildings,
structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, and other uses, and to
regulate and restrict the intensity of such uses;
   (G)   To divide the entire village into districts of such number, shape,
area, and of such different classes, according to the use of land and
buildings, and the intensity of such use, as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the purpose of this chapter;
   (H)   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts respectively; and
2001 S-10
   (I)   To prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed hereunder.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE. A structure or use that customarily:
      (1)   Is subordinate to and services a principal building or a principal
use legally existing on the same zoning lot;
      (2)   Is subordinate in area, extent, and purpose to the principal
building or principal use;
      (3)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of the
occupants, business, or industry of the principal structure or principal use
served; and
      (4)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal structure or
principal use served.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of a tract of land of not less than five acres for
growing crops in the open, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture, and
animal and poultry husbandry (but expressly prohibiting the feeding of garbage
to any animal or poultry), and necessary accessory uses; provided, however,
such agricultural use shall not include wholesale or retail sales as an
accessory use; the feeding (other than grazing in open pasture) or sheltering
in penned enclosures of animals or poultry within 100 feet of any lot line; nor
the maintenance and operation of commercial greenhouses or hydroponic farms.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a building which is arranged or
designed to be used as a single housekeeping unit.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES. The use of a building or premises for the sales of new and
used automobiles and other motor vehicles in operating condition, and the
repair and storage of automobiles and other motor vehicles in operating
condition as a use accessary and incidental to the use of said building or
premises for sales at retail.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building or other structure and surrounding
land used for the storage and sale of gasoline and for accessory uses such as
the sale of lubricants, accessories, or supplies, the incidental washing of
motor vehicles, and the performing of minor repairs.
   AUTOMOBILE STORAGE AND REPAIR. The repairing and servicing of automobiles
and other motor vehicles in operating condition, including body work, painting,
and motor rebuilding, and the storage of such vehicles in operating condition,
but not including the storage of trucks that exceed ten tons in weight.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any land, building, or structure used for the
wrecking or storage of two or more motor vehicles not in running condition, or
the parts thereof, stored in the open and not being restored to operating
condition, or failing to display a current and valid vehicle tag of the
village; or any tract of land, building, or structure used for the storage,
keeping, or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap
materials or for the dismantling, demolition, or abandonment of structures,
automobiles, other vehicles, equipment, and machinery or parts thereof.
   BUILDING. Any covered structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure
of persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind, and which is
permanently affixed to the land.
   BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS. Restrictions controlling the size of buildings or
other structures and the relationship of buildings, structures, and uses to
each other and to open areas and lot lines.
   BULK REGULATIONS. Include restrictions controlling maximum height, maximum
lot coverage, gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio) and minimum size of yards.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A non-accessory building in which a principal use of
the lot on which it is located is conducted.
   COMMUNITY SANITARY SEWER AND WATER SYSTEM. Any system, other than septic
tank or individual well, operated by a municipality or a public utility for the
disposal of wastes and the furnishing of water, or either, to residential,
industrial, and commercial users.
   CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY. All land, property, and space on which is built one or
more attached, individually owned single-family residences or units.
   CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building, or other structure, which is
designed or intended for a conforming use and which complies with all the
regulations of this chapter governing use, lot size, building bulk, and off-
street parking and loading for the zoning district in which such building or
structure is located.
   CORNER LOT. A lot which adjoins the point of intersection of two or more
streets and in which the interior angle formed by the street lines is 135
degrees or less. If the street lines are curved, the angle shall be measured at
the point of intersection of the extensions of the street lines in the
directions which they take at the intersections of the street line with the
side lot line and with the rear lot line of the lot. If the street line is
curved at its point of intersection with the side lot line or rear lot line,
the tangent to the curve at that point shall be considered the direction of the
street line.
   DRY-CLEANING AND LAUNDRY PICK-UP STATION. An establishment or business
operated or maintained for the pick-up and delivery of dry cleaning and laundry
without the maintenance or operation of any laundry or dry-cleaning equipment
or machinery on the premises.
   DOG KENNEL. Any structure or place where five or more dogs are boarded or
bred for a fee and offered for sale.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the territory of the village within which certain
uniform regulations and requirements, or various combinations thereof, apply
under the provisions of this chapter.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An enterprise which accommodates the patrons’
automobiles and from which the occupants of the automobiles may make purchases,
transact business, and view motion pictures.
   DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, but not a mobile home or house
trailer, designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX. A residential building containing two attached dwelling
units, as defined in this chapter.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building containing two or more dwelling units,
but not including a hotel or a motel as defined in this chapter.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing one dwelling unit only.
   FAMILY. Either an individual or two or more persons related by blood,
marriage, or adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit in a
dwelling unit; or a group of not more than four persons, who need not be
related by blood, marriage, or adoption, living together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit; plus, in either case, usual domestic
servants.
   FLOOR AREA. 
      (1)   For the purpose of determining the floor area ratio, the FLOOR AREA
of a building is the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of
the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
center line of walls separating two buildings. The floor area of a building
shall include: the basement floor area when more than one-half of the basement
height  is above the established curb level or above the finished lot grade
level where curb level has not been established; elevator shafts and stairwells
at each floor; floor space used for mechanical equipment (except equipment,
open or enclosed, located on the roof); penthouses; attic space having headroom
of 7 feet, 10 inches or more; interior balconies and mezzanines; enclosed
porches; and floor area devoted to accessory uses. Space devoted to off-street
parking or loading shall not be included in the floor area.
      (2)   The FLOOR AREA of structures devoted to bulk storage of materials
including, but not limited to, grain elevators and petroleum storage tanks
shall be computed by counting each ten feet of height, or fraction thereof, as
being equal to one floor.
      (3)   For the purpose of determining the number of required off-street
parking spaces and loading berths, FLOOR AREA shall mean the sum of the gross
horizontal areas of the several floors of the building, or portion thereof,
which are devoted to the principal use of the premises, including accessory
storage areas located within selling or working space such as counters, racks,
or closets; any basement floor area devoted to retailing activities; and floor
area devoted to the production or processing of goods or to business or
professional offices. For this purpose, FLOOR AREA shall not include floor area
devoted primarily to storage purposes (except as otherwise noted herein); floor
area devoted to off-street parking or loading facilities, including aisles,
ramps, and maneuvering space; or basement floor area other than area devoted to
retailing activities, to the production or processing of goods, or to business
or professional offices.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (F.A.R.). The floor area ratio of the building or other
structure on any lot is determined by dividing the floor area of such building
or structure by the area of the lot on which the building or structure is
located. When more than one building or other structure is located on a lot,
then the floor area ratio is determined by dividing the total floor area of all
buildings or structures by the area of the lot, or, in the case of planned
developments, by the net site area. The floor area ratio requirements, as set
forth under each zoning district, shall determine the maximum floor area
allowable for a building or other structure (total floor area of both principal
and accessory buildings) in direct ratio to the gross area of the lot.
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building or other structure, except that with respect
to walls parallel to and within five feet of a sidewalk, the average level of
the finished surface of the ground shall be measured at the sidewalk.
   GUEST HOUSE. A detached accessory building located on the same lot as the
principal building containing rent-free living quarters for temporary guests.
   GROUND SIGN. Any sign placed upon or supported by the ground independently
of the main building or structure on the property. Signs attached to trees,
light poles, or accessory buildings shall be considered GROUND SIGNS.
   HEIGHT, MAXIMUM. A plane parallel to the ground at the height shown in the
district regulations. No part of any building or structure shall project
through such plane except chimneys, flues, stacks, fire escapes, gas holders,
elevator enclosures, ventilators, skylights, water tanks, and similar roof
structures needed to operate and maintain the building on which they are
located; or flagpoles, television aerials, water towers and tanks, steeples,
monuments, cupolas, silos, and barns.
   HOTEL OR MOTEL. A building, or portion thereof, or a group of buildings
which contains sleeping accommodations for transients on a daily or weekly
basis, whether such establishment is designated as a hotel, inn, automobile
court, motel, motor hotel, motor inn, motor lodge, tourist cabin,  tourist
court, or otherwise. No more than 25% of the total sleeping units of such
building or group of buildings shall contain kitchen or eating facilities.
   LAUNDERETTE. A self-service laundry in which washing machines, dry-cleaning
machines, and clothes dryers are made available for operation by the customer.
   LOT. A parcel of land that is designated by its owner or developer at the
time of applying for a zoning certificate (or, if no zoning certificate is
required, at the time of applying for an occupancy certificate) as a tract all
of which is to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit under single
ownership. So long as it satisfies the above requirements, such lot may consist
of a single lot of record; or a portion of a lot of record; or a combination of
complete lots of record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots
of record only.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and
rear lot lines, but not including any area occupied by the waters of a duly
recorded lake or river.
    LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot, measured within the lot boundary.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which is along an existing or
dedicated public street, or where no public street exists, is along a public
way. The owner of a corner lot may select either street lot line as the front
lot line.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is, or
is most nearly, parallel to the front lot line. If a rear lot line is less than
15 feet long, or if the lot comes to a point at the rear, the rear lot line
shall be a line at least 15 feet long, lying wholly within the lot, parallel to
the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds, or a parcel of
land, the deed to which was recorded in the office of said Recorder prior to
the adoption of this chapter.
   LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS. Restrictions controlling the minimum area
and minimum width of lots and the density of residential development in terms
of dwelling units per acre.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot.
   MAJOR STREET. A street that is so designated on the currently effective
zoning map of the village.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle, house car, camp car, or any portable or mobile
vehicle on wheels, skids or rollers, or blocks, either self- propelled or
propelled by any other means, which is used, or designed to be used,
permanently or temporarily, for residential occupancy.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is assembled or stored for routing in intrastate and interstate shipment
by motor truck.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure which does not
comply  with the lot size requirements and building bulk regulations of this
chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of land, buildings, or structures for a purpose or
use which is not permitted by the regulations and restrictions applicable in
the district in which the land, building, or structure is located.
   NOXIOUS MATTER. Material which is capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects on
the physical or economic well-being of individuals.
   OFF-STREET LOADING. An area or space that is accessible from a street,
alley, or way, whether in a building or on a lot, that is set aside for the
exclusive use of trucks or other vehicles while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. An area or space, accessible from the street, alley, or
way, whether in a building or on a lot, that is set aside for the exclusive use
of the parking of automobiles and other vehicles.
   PARTICULATE MATTER. Dust, smoke, or any other form of air-borne pollution in
the form of minute separate particles.
   SECONDARY STREET. A street that is so designated on the currently effective
zoning map of the village.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the front line of the
building or structure and the front lot line.
   SIGN. Any writing (including letters, words, or numerals); pictorial
representation (including illustrations or decorations); emblem (including
devices, symbols, or trademarks); flag (including banners or pennants); or any
other figure of similar character, which is a structure or any part thereof, or
is attached to, painted on, or in any other manner represented on a building or
other structure; and is used to announce, advertise, or direct attention to an
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization, or
business; and is visible from outside a building. A sign shall include a
writing, pictorial representation, or other figure of similar character within
a building only when it is illuminated and located in a window.
   SIGN, GROSS AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of such sign and in no case passing through or
between any adjacent elements of same. Such perimeter shall not include any
structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign and which do not form
an integral part of the display.
   SPECIAL USE. A use which is either public or closely related to the public
interest which may not be established until a special use permit has been
secured in accordance with §§ 154.280 through
154.285.
   STREET. A dedicated public or private right-of-way which affords a primary
means of access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
or other structure, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams,
girders, or foundations, or any structural change in the floor.
   TEEN DANCE CLUB. Includes any and all buildings and premises (other than
single-family residential homes and apartments) where dancing by patrons is
permitted or encouraged, and which limits entry or caters primarily to persons
of less than 21 years of age, and which does not possess a valid liquor
license. This includes such other similar businesses as may provide non-
alcoholic beverages to a primarily teenage patronage, such as a “Soda Bar” or
“Juice Bar”.”
   TOXIC MATTER. Material which is capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
   TRAILER. A vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by an
automobile or other motor vehicle and to carry persons or property.
   UNIFIED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A unified tract of land which contains, or
will contain when developed, two or more dwellings, and which is developed
under single ownership or control for sale or lease by separate parcels or
dwelling unit.
   USE. Any purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of land
may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained or occupied; also, any
activity, occupation, business, or operation carried on, or intended to be
carried on, in a building or other structure or on a tract of land.
   USE, PERMITTED. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main or dominant use of land, a building or other
structure as distinguished from a subordinate or accessory use.
   VIBRATION. The periodic displacement, measured in inches, of earth.
   YARD. Open space which is unoccupied or unobstructed from its lowest level
to the sky, except for permitted obstructions listed in § 154.011.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending along the full length of the front lot line
and between the side lot lines.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot line
between the side lot lines.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending along a side lot line from the front yard to
the rear yard.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1998-O-7, passed 2-17-98; Am. Ord. 2018-O-14,
passed 10-16-18)
§ 154.004 EXEMPTIONS.
   Public utilities subject to regulation by the Illinois Commerce Commission,
or by a federal agency, bureau, or commission, may locate their poles, towers,
wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, or other similar distributing
equipment in any district without the necessity of complying with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.005 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals, and welfare.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter upon the
use of land or buildings are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of this chapter or of any
other law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive shall govern.
   (C)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or
any other private agreement, provided that where the regulations of this
chapter are more restrictive than such easements, covenants, or other private
agreements, the requirements of this chapter shall govern.
   (D)   No building, structure, or use which was not lawfully existing at the
time of the adoption of this chapter shall become or be made lawful solely by
reason of the adoption of this chapter; and to the extent that, and in any
matter that, said unlawful building, structure, or use is in conflict with the
requirements of this chapter, said building, structure, or use remains unlawful
hereunder.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to be a consent,
license, or permit to use any property or to locate, construct or maintain any
building, structure, or facility or to carry on any trade, industry,
occupation, or activity.
   (F)   The provisions of this chapter are cumulative and are additional
limitations upon all other laws and ordinances heretofore passed or which may
be passed hereafter governing any subject matter in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.006 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to buildings, other
structures, and land in the village.
   (B)   All buildings or other structures erected hereafter, all uses of land
or buildings established hereafter, all structural alterations or relocation of
existing buildings or structures occurring hereafter and all enlargements of or
additions to existing uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to all
regulations of this chapter which are applicable to the districts in which such
buildings, uses, or land shall be located.
   (C)   Where the Zoning Administrator has issued a zoning certificate
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, such certificate shall become null
and void unless work thereon is substantially underway within six months of the
date of the issuance of such certificate.
   (D)   A special use permit shall be deemed to authorize only one particular
special use and shall expire if the special use shall cease for more than six
months for any reason.
   (E)   Where a lot is to be occupied for a permitted use without buildings,
the side yards and front yard required in the district in which such lot is
located shall be provided and maintained unless otherwise stipulated in this
chapter, except that side yards shall not be required on lots used for garden
purposes without buildings or structures, nor on lots used for public
recreation areas.
   (F)   No land which is located in a residence district shall be used for a
driveway, walkway, or access purpose to any land which is located in any
business or industrial district.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.007 ANNEXED LAND.
   All land which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall be
automatically classified in the R-2 Residence District pending a public hearing
by the Plan Commission and action by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
case of amendments in §§
154.290 through
154.296 hereof. Such public hearing shall be held within 60 days after the
effective date of any such annexation and final action thereon shall be taken
by the Village Board of Trustees within 30 days after the last adjournment of
the said public hearings.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.008 LOTS OF RECORD.
   Any lot of record on the effective date of this section (February 18, 1964)
which does not comply with the requirements of the district in which it is
located may be used for any use permitted within the zoning district provided
that all setback requirements, street frontages according to §
154.012 (Front Footage and Access to Lots) and building lines are complied with
and that all remaining requirements of this section are compiled with, and that
the owner of such lot did not, directly or indirectly, have legal title to or
enjoy the beneficial interest in the lot or lots contiguous thereto on the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2002-O-10, passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2017-O-27,
passed 11-5-17) 
§ 154.009 NUMBER OF BUILDINGS ON A LOT.
   Not more than one principal detached residential building shall be located
on a lot, nor shall a principal detached residential building be located on the
same lot with any other principal building. This section does not apply to
unified residential developments on a single lot or tract that are developed
pursuant to the provisions of §§
154.150 through
154.153.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.010 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Authorization. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this chapter,
accessory uses and structures shall be allowed only in connection with any
lawfully established principal use.
   (B)   General standards. All accessory uses shall comply with the following
standards.
      (1)   Unless otherwise expressly stated, accessory uses and structures
shall be located on the same zoning lot as a lawfully established principal use
and cannot continue in the absence thereof unless lawfully converted to a
permitted principal use. Notwithstanding the above, an underground improvement
such as a septic system and/or well located on an abutting parcel under common
ownership is allowed.
      (2)   No accessory structure or use shall be constructed or established
on any lot prior to the issuance of a building permit for the principal
structure or an occupancy permit for a principal use to which it is accessory.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise expressly stated, accessory structures and
uses shall comply with all applicable regulations of this chapter, including
lot coverage, height and setback regulations (see also division (C) below).
         (b)   No accessory use or structure shall cause any of these standards
to be exceeded for the underlying zoning district.
      (4)   No accessory structure maybe located within four feet of any other
structure except fences, any at-grade improvements, or any other structures
that do not unreasonably impede access for emergency and/or maintenance
purposes or otherwise create a fire or safety hazard.
      (5)   (a)   Accessory uses and structures must be subordinate to the
principal use and structure on the subject lot in terms of area, extent, and
purpose.
         (b)   The total gross floor area of all accessory structures on a lot
shall not exceed one and one-half times the total gross floor area of the
principal structure on the lot.
      (6)   Signs shall be subject to
Chapter 158.
      (7)   (a)   No more than three accessory buildings associated with a
principal residential use shall be located on a single parcel in a residential
district.
         (b)   There shall be no limit on the number of accessory buildings
that may be located on a parcel in a nonresidential zoning district or on a
parcel in a residential zoning district containing a principal nonresidential
use, provided that they comply with all other general accessory use standards
of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4568.gif]
      (8)   A basement shall not be permitted in any accessory structure;
however, a crawl space may be permitted. An attic shall be permitted in an
accessory structure for storage purposes only.
      (9)   Uses prohibited as accessory uses:
         (a)    Recreational use of motorized vehicles as residential accessory
uses;
         (b)    Temporary hoophouses, greenhouses, or other frame-designed
structures not meeting applicable building codes;
         (c)    Temporary storage structures, including trailers and freight
containers not meeting building codes; and
         (d)    Donation drop-off containers.
   (C)   Height and setback standards.
      (1)   Height. The following height standards shall apply to accessory
uses and accessory structures unless otherwise expressly stated. No accessory
use or accessory structure in residential zoned areas for residential zoned
uses shall be higher than the principal building to which it is accessory, and
in no event shall an accessory structure or accessory use exceed a height of 18
feet. Refer to §
154.078(B)(7) for property located within the downtown zoning districts.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Residential development. In residential zoning districts,
accessory uses and structures shall meet the front setback requirement of the
underlying zoning district. No accessory use or structure may be located within
three feet of any side or rear property line.
         (b)   Nonresidential. In nonresidential zoning districts, accessory
uses and structures shall meet all the setback requirements of the underlying
zoning district.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1988-O-35, passed 9-20-88; Am. Ord. 2000-O-20,
passed 11-21-00; Am. Ord. 2001-O-15, passed 5-15-01; Am. Ord. 2003-O-22, passed
8-5-03; Am. Ord. 2014-O-5, passed 3-18-14; Am. Ord. 2018-O-14, passed 10-16-18)
§ 154.011 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS IN YARDS.
   The following shall not be considered to be obstructions when located in the
yards specified:
   (A)   In all yards. Open terraces not over four feet above the average level
of the adjoining ground but not including a permanently roofed-over terrace or
porch; awnings and canopies; steps four feet or less above grade which are
necessary for access to a permitted building or for access to a lot from a
street or alley; removable temporary handicap ramps intended to be used for 180
days or less provided that they meet accessibility and safety standards;
chimneys projecting 18 inches or less into the yard; recreational and laundry-
drying equipment, arbors, and trellises; flag poles; closed fences and walls
not exceeding five feet in height above natural grade level. If any provision
of this chapter requires a fence level with a minimum height in excess of five
feet, then such fence shall be a permitted obstruction within the meaning of
this section.
   (B)   In front yards. One-story bay windows projecting three feet or less
into the yard and overhanging eaves and gutters projecting three feet or less
into the yard.
   (C)   In side yards. Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting 18 inches or
less into the yard.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2016-O-2, passed 1-5-16)
§ 154.012 FRONT FOOTAGE AND ACCESS TO LOTS.
   All lots shall have a minimum frontage of not less than the minimum lot
width required in each zoning district or the width of an existing lot of
record along a street, road, or public way dedicated to, or approved by, the
village and necessary by the County Highway Commissioner, Superintendent of
Highways, and the Department of Transportation. Such lots shall also have
direct access to any such public way. Private easements shall not be allowed as
a sole means of access for any new principal use.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2017-O-27, passed 11-5-17)
§ 154.013 COVERED DECKS AND PORCHES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section only, the following
words shall have the meanings set forth hereinbelow:
   ENCLOSE. The physical act of installing a permanent roof and/or side walls
as described hereinabove.
   ENCLOSURE. A permanent roof and side walls consisting of wooden or masonry
walls and permanently installed windows covering at least 30% of the perimeter
of the area under the roof (exclusive of any wall on the existing structure).
   (B)   Foundation required. No deck or porch which is attached to a
residence, garage or accessory building having, or which is required to have, a
full foundation, shall be enclosed unless the deck or structure to which the
enclosure is being constructed shall be supported by a trench foundation or
footing and foundation wall extending below the frost level of not less than 42
inches.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of the foregoing to the contrary, it
shall not be unlawful to install a canopy or other removable roof over any
deck, nor to install seasonal screens under a permanent roof, provided that the
total amount of permanently installed side walls does not exceed the limits set
forth in division (B) of this section.
(Ord. 2002-O-11, passed 3-19-02)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.020 DISTRICTS.
   The village shall be divided into thirteen districts as follows:
   R-1 Residential District
   R-2 Residential District
   R-3 Residential District
   R-4 Residential District
   R-5 Rural Subdivision
   B-1 Retail Business District
   B1-M Marine Related Business District
   B-2 General Business District
   B-3 Shopping Center District
   B-4 Indoor Storage Business District
   B-5 General Storage District
   I-1 Limited Industrial District
   I-2 Light Industrial District
(Ord. passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1997-O-24, passed 11-4-97)
§ 154.021 ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the districts listed in §
154.020 are as indicated on the zoning map of the village, a copy of which is
on file in the office of the Village Clerk in the Village Hall and is
identified on its face as a part of the zoning ordinance and the said zoning
map, with all notations, references, and other matters thereon, is as much a
part of this chapter as if such notations, references, and other matters were
specifically set forth herein. No buildings shall be erected or altered, nor
shall any building or premises be used for any purpose other than is permitted
in the district in which such building or premises is located, except as
provided in §§
154.205 through
154.209 relating to nonconforming uses.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2016-O-5, passed 3-1-16; Am. Ord. 2024-14,
passed 7-16-24)
§ 154.022 BOUNDARIES.
   In the event uncertainties exist with respect to the intended boundaries of
the various districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall
apply:
   (A)   The district boundaries are the center lines of streets unless
otherwise indicated, and where the designation of a boundary line on the zoning
map coincides with the location of a street the center line of such street
shall be construed to be the boundary of such district.
   (B)   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
streets, but do coincide with lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to
be the boundary of such district.
   (C)   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
streets, or lot lines, the district boundaries shall be determined by the use
of the scale indicated on the zoning map.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.023 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected, altered, or
enlarged, and no use of land shall hereafter be established or enlarged within
the village for any use except a use that is permitted within the zoning
district in which the building, structure, or land is located.
   (B)   There shall be two exceptions to the requirement in division (A):
      (1)   Uses lawfully established on the effective date of this code may be
continued subject to the conditions and restrictions contained in §§
154.205 through
154.211.
      (2)   Special uses may be allowed, but only in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.024.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1993-O-02, passed 2-2-93)
§ 154.024 [RESERVED].
§ 154.025 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected, altered, or
enlarged, nor shall any use of land be established or enlarged on a lot which
is smaller in area than the minimum lot area prescribed for the zoning district
in which the building, structure, or land is located.
   (B)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected, altered, or
enlarged, nor shall any use of land be established or enlarged on a tract of
land the width of which is less than the minimum lot width prescribed for the
zoning district in which the building, structure, or land is located.
   (C)   No building or other structure shall be converted so as to conflict,
or further conflict, with
the lot area per dwelling unit requirements for the district in which such
building or structure is located.
   (D)   No building containing dwelling units shall hereafter be converted
unless the gross floor area when divided by the number of dwelling units within
the building or structure produces a quotient of at least 500 square feet. For
the purpose of this section, a lodging room may be considered as 3/4 of a
dwelling unit.
   (E)   The minimum lot area requirements shall be reduced for lots fronting
on Sheridan Road by the number of square feet that said lot is reduced as the
result of action taken by federal, state, or municipal agencies, such as by
condemnation, for the purpose of widening or otherwise altering said Sheridan
Road, except that the minimum lot area shall not be reduced by more than 25%.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.026 BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building, structure or other installation shall hereafter be
erected, altered, installed or enlarged so as to exceed the lot coverage
percentage for the district in which the building or structure is located.
   (B)   When a maximum building height is specified in any district or for any
particular type of building or other structure, then no such building or
structure shall hereafter be erected, altered, or enlarged so as to exceed such
maximum building height.
   (C)   When a floor area ratio is specified in any district or for any
particular type of building or other structure, then no such building or
structure shall hereafter be erected, altered, or enlarged so as to exceed such
floor area ratio.
   (D)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected, altered, or
enlarged, nor shall any use of land be established or enlarged unless the
minimum front, side, and rear yards specified for the district in which such
building, structure, or use of land is located are maintained. All additions to
principal buildings including attached garages shall comply with the yard
requirements for the principal building.
   (E)   For the purposes of all coverage calculations, the word “coverage”
shall include all buildings, structures, driveways, patios, areas under roof,
in-ground swimming pools and all non-specified impervious man-made
installations, but excepting therefrom all above-ground decks not under roof
and all above-ground swimming pools.
   (F)   For the purposes of all coverage calculations, the lot coverage shall
be determined by dividing the areas of land covered by the buildings and other
structures described above by the total area of the building lot (or combined
lots) upon which the owner wishes to erect or install the building or
structures, multiplied by 100.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2003-O-10, passed 5-6-03)
§ 154.027 SIGNS.
   No sign shall hereafter be erected, altered, or enlarged unless it complies
with the regulations and restrictions imposed by
Chapter 158 of this code on the use and maintenance of signs in the zoning
district in which the sign is, or will be, located.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2018-O-4, passed 3-20-18)
§ 154.028 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected, altered, or
enlarged, nor shall any use of land be established or enlarged unless the
minimum off-street parking and loading spaces set out in §§
154.175 through
154.197 are provided.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.035 PERMITTED USES.
   No building or use shall hereafter be established or enlarged within the R-
1 Residential District, except a building or use devoted to one of the
following purposes:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Agriculture as defined in §
154.003.
   (C)   Churches and temples, provided that no steeple shall be more than 75
feet in height.
   (D)   Elementary schools and high schools.
   (E)   Parks and forest preserves operated not-for-profit.
   (F)   Accessory buildings or uses incidental to the foregoing principal
uses, including private garages, guest houses, tool houses, private
greenhouses, private dog kennels housing not more than 3 dogs, and quarters for
persons employed in connection with the residential use of the premises.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.036 [RESERVED].
§ 154.037 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be 40,000 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be 130 feet.
   (C)   The minimum lot depth shall be 127 feet.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.038 BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet, provided that a building
or structure may exceed this maximum if it is set back from each lot line an
additional 2 feet for each 1 foot by which it exceeds 35 feet in height.
   (B)   Yard and setback requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   A front yard of not less than 35 feet.
      (2)   A side yard on each side of the lot of not less than 8 feet and a
combined total of both side yards that is not less than 18 feet. On a corner
lot the side yard adjacent to the street shall be not less than 15 feet wide.
      (3)   A rear yard of not less than 20 feet or not less than 20% of the
lot depth, whichever is less.
      (4)   Any building or structure located on a lot that fronts on a major
or a secondary street, as defined in §
154.003, shall be set back from the center line of such street as follows:
         (a)   On major streets: 85 feet.
         (b)   On secondary streets: 75 feet.
   (C)   The lot coverage shall not exceed 30% of the area of the lot.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2003-O-10, passed 5-6-03)
R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.045 PERMITTED USES.
   Any use that is permitted in the R-1 Residential District shall be permitted
in the R-2 Residential District, and in Unified Residential Developments, as
defined in §
154.003, subject to the standards and restrictions imposed by §§
154.150 through
154.153.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.046 [RESERVED].
§ 154.047 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be as follows:
      (1)   Lots with community sewer and water facilities: 12,750 square feet.
      (2)   Lots without community sewer and water facilities: 22,000 square
feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be as follows:
      (1)   Lots with community sewer and water facilities: 75 feet.
      (2)   Lots without community sewer and water facilities: 130 feet.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1988-O-34, passed 9-20-88; Am. Ord. 2003-O-10,
passed 5-6-03)
§ 154.048 BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet, provided that a building
or structure may exceed this maximum if it is set back from each lot line an
additional 2 feet for each 1 foot by which it exceeds 35 feet in height.
   (B)   Yard requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   A front yard of not less than 35 feet.
      (2)   A side yard on each side of the lot of not less than 8 feet and a
combined total of side yards that is not less than 18 feet. On a corner lot the
side yard adjacent to the street shall be not less than 12 feet wide.
      (3)   A rear yard of not less than 20 feet or 20% of the lot depth,
whichever is the lesser.
      (4)   Any building or structure located on a lot that fronts on a major
or secondary street, as defined in §
154.003, shall be set back from the center line of such street as follows:
         (a)   On major streets: 85 feet.
         (b)   On secondary streets: 75 feet.
   (C)   The lot coverage shall not exceed 40% of the area of the lot.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2003-O-10, passed 5-6-03)
R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.055 PERMITTED USES.
   Any use permitted in the R-1 Residential District shall be permitted in the
R-3 Residential District when community sewer facilities are provided, except
that agricultural uses, as defined herein, are expressly prohibited in the R-
3 District.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.056 [RESERVED].
§ 154.057 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be as follows:
      (1)   For single-family dwellings: 7,000 square feet.
      (2)   For all other buildings and structures: 20,000 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be as follows:
      (1)   For single-family dwellings: 50 feet.
      (2)   For all other buildings and structures: 100 feet.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1988-O-34, passed 9-20-88; Am. Ord. 2017-O-27,
passed 11-5-17)
§ 154.058 BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The maximum building height shall be 25 feet, provided that a building
or structure may exceed this maximum if it is set back from each lot line an
additional 2 feet for each 1 foot by which it exceeds 25 feet in height.
   (B)   The lot coverage shall not exceed 45% of the area of the lot.
   (C)   No residential building shall contain more than 2 floors devoted to
residential occupancy.
   (D)   Yard requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   For single-family dwellings:
         (a)   A front yard of not less than 25 feet.
         (b)   A side yard on each side of the lot of not less than 8 feet and
a combined total of side yards that is not less than 18 feet. On a corner lot
the side yard adjacent to the street shall be not less than 10 feet wide.
         (c)   A rear yard of not less than 8 feet.
      (2)   All buildings or other structures located on a lot that fronts on a
major or a secondary street, as defined in §
154.003, shall be set back from the center line of such street as follows:
         (a)   On major streets: 75 feet.
         (b)   On secondary streets: 65 feet.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1988-O-34, passed 9-20-88; Am. Ord. 2003-O-10,
passed 5-6-03; Am. Ord. 2017-O-27, passed 11-5-17)
R-4 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.065 PERMITTED USES.
   Any use permitted in the R-1 Residential District when community sewer and
water facilities are provided may be allowed in the R-4 Residential District,
except that agricultural uses, as defined herein, are expressly prohibited in
the R-4 District. In addition, the following uses shall be permitted:
   (A)   Duplex dwellings.
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings if the total number of multi-family units,
such as apartment, motel, and efficiency apartment units do not number more
than 10% of the total number of single-family homes in the village.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1988-O-34, passed 9-20-88)
§ 154.066 [RESERVED].
§ 154.067 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be:
      (1)   For duplex or multiple-family dwellings: 5,900 square feet per
dwelling unit.
      (2)   For all other buildings and structures: 22,000 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be:
      (1)   For duplex and multiple-family dwellings: 100 feet.
      (2)   For all other buildings and structures: 120 feet.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2004-O-3, passed 3-16-04)
§ 154.068 BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The maximum building height shall be 25 feet, provided that a building
structure may exceed this maximum if it is set back from each lot line an
additional 2 feet for each 1 foot by which it exceeds 25 feet in height.
   (B)   The lot coverage shall not exceed 60% of the area of the lot.
   (C)   No residential building shall contain more than 2 floors devoted to
residential occupancy and no residence shall be located below ground level in
an English type basement.
   (D)   Yard requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   For duplexes, multi-family dwellings, and all other buildings,
structures, and uses:
         (a)   A front yard of not less than 35 feet.
         (b)   A side yard on each side of the lot that is equal to the
perpendicular distance from the lowest first floor window sills to the highest
point in the roof and in no case less than 20 feet. When 2 or more buildings or
structures are located on a lot, the distance of the closest point between any
2 buildings or structures shall not be less than 1-1/2 times the perpendicular
distance from the lowest first floor window sills to the highest point in the
roof.
         (c)   A rear yard of not less than 35 feet or 20% of the lot depth,
whichever is lesser.
      (2)   All buildings or other structures located on a lot that fronts on a
major or secondary street, as defined in §
154.003, shall be set back from the center line of such street as follows:
         (a)   On major streets: 85 feet.
         (b)   On secondary streets: 75 feet.
      (3)   Paved parking spaces must be provided for 2 automobiles for each
living unit and 2 additional parking spaces for visitors in each 8-unit
multiple-family building.
      (4)   Adequate parking space for storage of boats, trailers, snowmobiles,
and like conveyances, with proper surfacing, screening, and lighting as
provided in §
154.179, if storage is to be permitted.
      (5)   All Federal-State Building Officials Conference of America's latest
code book requirements for accommodations of the handicapped and elderly must
be complied with by the applicant.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2003-O-10, passed 5-6-03)
§ 154.069 SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING.
   All open automobile parking areas containing more than 4 parking spaces or
the walls of the multiple- family unit located less than 40 feet from a
property line shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting
on any property situated in a Residential District or any institutional
premises by a wall, fence, or densely planted compact hedge, not less than 5
feet nor more than 8 feet in height. The grounds around the duplex or multiple-
family unit shall be attractively landscaped with trees, shrubs, and lawn.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.070 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   Multiple-family dwellings constructed on 2-1/2 acres or more shall provide:
   (A)   Adequate fire protection which may include one or more fire hydrants
in accordance with the requirements of the Fire Department.
   (B)   On-site water detention as indicated by the county or the village,
whichever is the most restrictive.
   (C)   An adequate outside recreational area and facilities for children and
adults of the apartment complex.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
R-5 RURAL SUBDIVISION AND R-6 ATTACHED UNIT RESIDENTIAL
§ 154.075 R-5 RURAL SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Lot size requirements. All requirements for the R-5 Rural Subdivision
will remain the same as the regular R-2 Residential District except that the
following lot size requirements will control:
      (1)   The minimum lot width shall be 85 feet at the road right-of-way
line for lots not fronting on cul-de-sacs.
      (2)   The minimum lot area shall be 17,500 square feet for lots not
fronting on cul-de-sacs.
      (3)   Lots fronting on cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum area of 20,000
square feet.
      (4)   Lots shall not have unusual or irregular shapes which are not
conducive to building or efficient land use.
      (5)   Side lot lines, as nearly as practicable, shall be at right angles
to or radial to right-of-way lines.
      (6)   The lot coverage shall not exceed 40% of the area of the lot.
   (B)   Community sewer and water. Community water must be utilized, and
community sewer is recommended, but County Health Department approved septic
systems will be an acceptable alternate if approved by the majority of the
Village Board of Trustees if it is determined that the cost of community sewer
is extensive for the developer of the village.
   (C)   Other requirements. Further details regarding R-5 may be found in
Chapter
153.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2003-O-10, passed 5-6-03)
§ 154.076 R-6 ATTACHED UNIT RESIDENTIAL DWELLING ZONE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to encourage the development
of owner-occupied condominium housing projects.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The only developments that shall be eligible for this
zoning classification shall be residential projects and developments that are
subject to the provisions of the Illinois Condominium Property Act (the "Act"),
ILCS Ch. 765, Act 605, §§ 1 et seq.and which have the following specific
characteristics:
      (1)   Common areas titled in one or more groups of unit owners;
      (2)   Individual dwelling units that attach along one or more walls,
floors or ceilings;
      (3)   Individual dwelling units with individual legal descriptions as
required and allowed under the Act;
      (4)   Individual dwelling units titled separately from any and all other
units in the building or development.
      (5)   A homeowner's association governed by a set of covenants acceptable
to the village and which conform to the provisions of the Act.
   (C)   Lot size requirements. The minimum lot area shall be 5,900 square feet
per dwelling unit. The minimum lot width shall be 120 feet.
   (D)   Building bulk regulations.
      (1)   No building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
      (2)   No more than 60% of the lot area shall be covered by buildings or
other structures.
      (3)   All developments shall have minimum unpaved yards as follows:
         (a)   A front yard of 35 feet;
         (b)   A rear yard of 35 feet or 20% of the lot depth, whichever is
greater; and
         (c)   One side yard on each side of the lot of 20 feet.
      (4)   All buildings and other structures located on a lot that fronts on
a major or secondary street (as defined in §
154.003) shall be set back from the center line of the street as follows:
         (a)   On major streets, 85 feet; and
         (b)   On secondary streets, 75 feet.
   (E)   Parking regulations. Paved off-street parking spaces must be provided
for two vehicles for each living unit and two additional paved offstreet
parking must be provided for visitors for every eight units or fraction thereof
in the complex.
   (F)   Outside storage. There shall be no outside storage of boats, trailers,
snowmobiles or other non-licensed motorized transportation units in any
development, and the covenants shall specifically provide for this prohibition.
   (G)   Screening and landscaping. All open vehicle parking lots containing
more than four spaces must be effectively screened on each side adjoining or
fronting on any other property situated in a Residential District by a opaque
wooden fence or densely planted compact hedge, not less than 5 feet nor more
than 8 feet in height. The yards and other grounds shall be attractively
landscaped with trees, shrubs, lawns and, in environmentally sensitive areas,
with native plantings similar to those in surrounding areas.
   (H)   Recreation areas. Adequate outdoor recreational areas shall be
required for each development, on a case by case basis and sensitive to the
design and location of the project, but allowing at a minimum sufficient area
for passive outdoors activities by unit dwellers, their children and their
guests.
   (I)   Municipal services. No development under this section may be made on
any property which is not fully served with municipal water and sanitary sewer.
If the services are not readily available, it shall be the responsibility of
the developer to bring adequate water and sewer service to the property as a
condition of approval of his, her or its project. Adequate fire protection is
also specifically required, and a minimum of one fire hydrant (or equivalent
building tap) shall be provided for each four dwelling units unless a greater
or lesser number shall be directed by the Fire Chief or his designee based on
the proposed design of the structures. Nothing herein shall relieve the
developer from complying with all other applicable fire and safety codes, such
as smoke detectors, fire alarms, sprinklers emergency exits and the like.
(Ord 2004-O-3, passed 3-16-04)
WINTHROP HARBOR DOWNTOWN ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.078 WINTHROP HARBOR DOWNTOWN ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Intent. These regulations are established to provide development
standards to the village for downtown and adjacent redevelopment areas.
         (a)   To guide the development of a mix of uses and a pedestrian-
oriented environment established in the Station Area & Streetscape Plan.
         (b)   To achieve development that is appropriate in scale and
intensity for downtown and adjacent neighborhoods.
      (2)   Overview of code.
         (a)   The following divisions are included in this section:
            1.   Division (A): General. These regulations are organized within
districts for adoption into the village's existing code. These zoning districts
shall be mapped on the village's zoning map; however, the primary streets
designation and adjusted front build-to zone shall be referenced from the
following map,
Figure (A)(2) 1.
            2.   Division (B): Building Types. Six building types are defined
for use in the downtown (DT) districts. A mix of building types are typically
permitted per district. These building types outline the desired building forms
for new construction and renovation of structures, and contain regulations that
determine physical building elements such as build-to-zones, facade
transparency levels, entrance location, and parking location. Refer to Table B
(1) 1 for building types permitted in each district.
            3.   Division (C): Uses. Use requirements are defined in division
(C) of this section for each of the downtown (DT) districts. Uses may also be
further limited by the building types. Refer to division (B)(3) Building Types
in the tables per each building type.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4236.jpg]
Figure (A)(2) 1 Regulating Map of Downtown Districts
         (b)   Section
152.018: Site Development Standards for Downtown (DT) Districts. A new section
is included within
Chapter 152 Subdivision for larger parcels specifically within DT districts.
Requirements are defined for new streets, block configuration and size, and the
provision of open space.
         (c)   
Chapter 159: Landscape Standards. A new chapter with landscape requirements for
all village districts is provided to improve the appearance of streets, create
appropriate buffers between pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and minimize
adverse impacts created by adjoining or neighboring uses.
      (3)   Regulating map. These regulations apply to the parcels mapped on
the Regulating Map,
Figure (A)(2) 1, with downtown districts defined in division (A)(4) below.
         (a)   Primary streets. The Regulating Map designates primary streets
within the downtown district area. These designations prioritize the street
frontages for locating the front lot line for required amounts of building
frontage and allowable amounts of parking frontage.
            1.   When two primary streets abut a parcel, 7th Street shall be
designated the front lot line, unless otherwise determined by the Director of
Community Development.
         (b)   Adjusted front build-to zone. Several lots located along
Sheridan Road between 6th and 7th Streets have front lot lines that do not
align with neighboring parcels. The front build-to zone for these lots shall be
reduced by ten feet to align with neighboring lots. For example, if the front
build-to zone for the building type is between 15' and 20', for these parcels
the build-to zone should be from five feet to ten feet, measured from the lot's
front property line.
      (4)   Districts. The following districts are established for mixed use,
commercial, and residential development within the downtown.
Figure (A)(2) 1 illustrates the locations for the districts.
         (a)   DT 1: Downtown Core. The Downtown Core District is a mid-scale
district that supports a mix of two to up to four story buildings that make up
the core of the mixed use downtown area along Main Street. The form of this
retail and service-centered area establishes a street wall of storefront style-
building facades with shallow build-to-zones along the sidewalk and parking in
the rear or off-site. It focuses pedestrian-friendly retail and service uses on
the ground story with residential and/or office uses in upper stories.
         (b)   DT 2: Sheridan Road District. The Sheridan Road District is a
mid-scale district similar to the Downtown Core that supports a mix of up to
four story buildings. The form of this retail and service-centered area remains
pedestrian-centered but allows for more off-street parking options. Storefront-
style buildings focus a broader spectrum of retail and service uses on the
ground story with residential and/or office uses in upper stories.
         (c)   DT 3 Downtown Flex District. A mid-scale district similar to the
Downtown Core that supports a mix of residential and office buildings, up to
four stories in height. The form of this district is oriented to the street,
with shallow build-to zones along the sidewalk and either structured parking or
parking in the rear.
         (d)   DT 4: Downtown Residential District. The Downtown Residential
District is a lower-scale residential district with a mix of apartments and
townhouses. With a maximum height of 3.5 stories, this area provides for a mix
of housing types adjacent to downtown for people of all ages and lifestyles.
      (5)   Subdivision requirements. For all parcels greater than five acres,
refer to §
152.018 Site Development Standards for Downtown (DT) Districts. Block, street,
and open space requirements may apply.
      (6)   Development approval process.
         (a)   Site plan review. An approved site plan is required for the
development or redevelopment of all parcels in any DT district (refer to §§
154.297 and
154.298) with the following revisions:
            1.   Planned unit development (PUD). Planned developments are
permitted within a downtown zoning district per §
154.305. Any PUD shall clearly illustrate how the alternative plan supports and
allows more compliance with the spirit of the overall vision of the most recent
adopted downtown plan on file at Village Hall.
         (b)   Variations. The applicant shall submit requested variations to
the Director with the site plan application per §
32.05(B) of the Code of Ordinances.
      (7)   Nonconforming structures. Refer to §§
154.205 through
154.211 for nonconforming use and nonconforming structure requirements.
      (8)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:
         (a)   ALLEY. An area of land not less than nine feet in width
designated by plat or easement intended to provide for vehicular access to
adjoining properties. Refer to §
152.018(E) for alley requirements within a DT district.
         (b)   BUILD-TO ZONE. An area in which the front or corner side facade
of a building shall be placed; it may or may not be located directly adjacent
to a lot line. The zone dictates the minimum and maximum distance a structure
may be placed from a lot line. Refer to Figure (A)(8) 1. Build-to Zone vs.
Setback Line.
         (c)   COURTYARD. An outdoor area enclosed by a building on at least
three sides and is open to the sky.
         (d)   EXPRESSION LINE. An architectural feature consisting of a
decorative, three dimensional, linear element, horizontal or vertical,
protruding or indented at least two inches from the exterior facade of a
building typically utilized to delineate the top or bottom of floors or stories
of a building.
         (e)   IMPERVIOUS SITE COVERAGE. The percentage of a lot developed with
principal or accessory structures and impervious surfaces, such as driveways,
sidewalks, and patios. Detention and retention areas are exempt from the
calculation.
         (f)   LIVE-WORK. A single unit of a building consisting of both a
commercial/office and a residential component that is occupied by the same
resident, where the unit is the primary dwelling of the occupant.
         (g)   LOT FRONTAGE. The horizontal distance between the side lot
lines, measured at the front lot lines.
         (h)   OCCUPIED SPACE. Interior building space regularly occupied by
the building users. It does not include storage areas, utility space, or
parking.
         (i)   PEDESTRIANWAY. A pathway designed for use by pedestrians; it can
be located mid-block allowing pedestrian movement from one street to another
without traveling along the block's perimeter.
         (j)   PERVIOUS SURFACE. Also referred to as pervious material. A
material or surface that allows for the absorption of water into the ground or
plant material, such as permeable pavers or a vegetated roof.
         (k)   PRIMARY STREET. A street designated on the Regulating Map that
receives priority over other streets in terms of setting front lot lines and
locating building entrances. Refer to
Figure (A)(2) 1 for mapped location of primary streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4241.jpg]
Figure (A)(8) 1 Build-to Zone vs. Setback Line
         (l)   SEMI-PERVIOUS SURFACE. Also referred to as semi-pervious
material. A material that allows for at least 40% absorption of water into the
ground or plant material, such as pervious pavers or permeable asphalt and
concrete.
         (m)   STORY, GROUND. Also referred to as ground floor. The first floor
of a building that is level to or elevated above the finished grade on the
front and corner facades, excluding basements or cellars.
         (n)   STORY, HALF. A story either in the base of the building,
partially below grade and partially above grade, or a story fully within the
roof structure with transparency facing the street.
         (o)   STORY, UPPER. Also referred to as upper floor. The floors
located above the ground story of a building.
         (p)   STREET FACE. The facade of a building that faces a street right-
of-way.
         (q)   TRANSPARENCY. The measurement of the percentage of a facade that
has highly transparent, low reflectance windows. Mirrored glass is not
permitted.
         (r)   YARD. The space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground to the sky by the principal structure. Refer to
Figure (A)(8) 2. Illustration of Yards. Note that the rear yard is fully
screened from the street by the structure.
            1.   YARD, CORNER SIDE. A yard extending from the corner side
building facade along a corner side lot line between the front yard and rear
lot line.
            2.   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending from the front facade of the
principal structure along the full length of the front lot line, between the
side lot lines or side and corner side lot lines.
            3.   YARD, REAR. A yard extending from the rear building facade
along the rear lot line between the side yards or, on a corner lot, the corner
side and side yards.
            4.   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the side building facade
along a side lot line between the front yard and rear lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4245.jpg]
Figure (A)(8) 2. Illustration of Yards
         (s)   VISIBLE BASEMENT. A half story partially below grade and
partially exposed above with required transparency on the street facade.
   (B)   Building types.
      (1)   Introduction to building type standards.  The buildings detailed in
this division outline the building types permitted for new construction and
renovated structures within the districts defined in division (A) of this
section.
         (a)   General requirements. All building types shall meet the
following requirements to achieve the intents defined for the districts.
            1.   Zoning districts. Each building type shall be constructed only
within its designated districts. Refer to
Table (B)(1) 1. Permitted Building Types by Districts.
            2.   Uses. Each building type can house a variety of uses depending
on the district in which it is located. Refer to division (C) of this section
for uses permitted per district. Some building types have additional
limitations on permitted uses.
            3.   No other building types. All buildings constructed shall meet
the standards of one of the building types within the zoning district of the
lot.
            4.   Multiple principal buildings on one lot. For all building
types, multiple principal buildings are permitted on all lots; however, each
building must meet the requirements of the building type, unless otherwise
noted. For example, unless otherwise noted, all buildings are required to be
built up to the front lot line within a designated number of feet.
            5.   Permanent structures. All buildings constructed shall be
permanent construction without a chassis, hitch, or wheels, or other features
that would make the structure mobile, unless otherwise noted.
            6.   Build-to zones/setbacks. All build-to zones and setback areas
not covered by building shall contain either landscape, patio space, or
sidewalk space. Where permitted, driveways may cross perpendicularly through
the build-to zone or setback with a maximum width of 22 feet for two way
driveways and 12 feet for one way and single family residential driveways.
            7.   Accessory structures.
               a.   Attached accessory structures are considered part of the
principal structure.
               b.   Detached accessory structures are allowed per each building
type and shall comply with all setbacks except the following:
                  i.   Detached accessory structures are not permitted in the
front or corner side yard.
                  ii.   Detached accessory structures shall be located behind
the principal structure in the rear yard.
                  iii.   Maximum height of detached accessory structures shall
be one story less than the principal building or one story, whichever is
greater.
                  iv.   Detached accessory structures shall not exceed the
height of the principal structure.
         (b)   Page layout. Document pages are laid out to provide the maximum
amount of information for each building type on one spread of two pages. Refer
to Table (B)(1) 1 for a typical building type layout page.
            1.   Tables. Refer to division (B)(9) of this section for further
information on each table.
            2.   Graphics. Graphics typically represent one example of a
building that could be developed utilizing the standards for that building
type. Graphics are provided to illustrate general intent. In all cases, tables
and text supercede graphic representations.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4249.jpg]
Table (B)(1) 1. Permitted Building Types by Districts
      (2)   General design requirements. The following outlines the district
design requirements that affect a building's appearance and district
cohesiveness. They improve the physical quality of buildings, enhance the
pedestrian experience, and visually emphasize the village as a harbor town.
         (a)   Harbor character. A style that is reminiscent of coastal
architecture is preferred. Elements such as small round nautical-inspired
windows, dormers, gambrel roofs, towers, and multi-paned windows with shutters
are encouraged. Materials and finishes include white wood trim for balconies
and eaves, natural shingle siding, light colored wood siding. Refer to
Figure (B)(2) 1.
         (b)   Materials and color.
            1.   Primary facade materials. Eighty percent of each street facade
shall be constructed of primary materials. Street facade materials shall
continue around the corner a minimum depth of 20 feet onto the side facade.
               a.   Permitted primary building materials include high quality,
durable, natural materials, such as stone, brick; wood lap siding; fiber cement
board lapped, shingled, or panel siding; glass. Other high quality synthetic
materials may be approved during the site plan process with an approved sample
and examples of successful, high quality local installations. Refer to
Figure (B)(2) 2.
               b.   Preferred materials. Natural shingles, shingles painted in
gray or blue tones, and wood or fiber cement boards in a horizontal application
are preferred as a facade material. Refer to
Figure (B)(2) 1.
            2.   Secondary facade materials. Secondary materials are limited to
details and accents and include gypsum reinforced fiber concrete for trim and
cornice elements; metal for beams, lintels, trim, and ornamentation, and
exterior architectural metal panels and cladding.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4253.jpg]
Figure (B)(2) 1 Images illustrating aspects of Harbor character
               a.   Exterior insulation and finishing systems (EIFS) is
permitted on upper floor facades only.
            3.   Triangle parcel rear and side facades. For parcels located in
districts DT1 and DT3 within the triangle parcels (bounded by 7th Street/Main
Street to the south, N. Park Avenue to the east, and Sheridan Road to the
west), primary and secondary facade materials apply to all building facades
visible from any street and any other parcel.
            4.   Roof materials. Acceptable roof materials include 300 pound or
better, dimensional asphalt composite shingles, wood shingles and shakes, and
slate. "Engineered" wood or slate may be approved during the site plan process
with an approved sample and examples of successful, high quality local
installations. Refer to
Figure (B)(2) 3.
            5.   Color. Main building colors shall utilize any historic palette
from any major paint manufacturer. Other colors may be utilized for details and
accents, not to exceed a total area larger than 10% of the facade surface area.
            6.   Appropriate grade of materials. Commercial quality doors,
windows, and hardware shall be used on all building types with the exception of
the Cottage Commercial Building, row building, and the yard building. Refer to
Figure (B)(2) 4.
            7.   Mechanical equipment on facade. Mechanical equipment,
including venting, shall not be attached to any facade.
         (c)   Windows and shutters.
            1.   Windows. All upper story windows on all historic, residential,
and mixed use buildings shall be recessed and vertically oriented. Percent of
transparency is required per building type. Horizontal or vertical strip
windows, tinted or reflective glass, and glass block (refer to
Figure (B)(2) 5) are prohibited on street facades.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4259.jpg]
Figure (B)(2) 2 Primary Materials
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4261.jpg]
Figure (B)(2) 3 Roof Materials
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4263.jpg]
Figure (B)(2) 4 Commercial Grade Doors & Windows
            2.   Window elements. Dormers and multi-paned windows are
encouraged in upper stories. Refer to
Figure (B)(2) 4.
            3.   Security grills. Grills shall be fully retractable and
completely within the interior of the building and inconspicuous to the extent
possible. Exterior bars are prohibited on any window. Refer to
Figure (B)(2) 4.
            4.   Shutters. If installed, shutters, whether functional or not,
shall be sized for the windows. If closed, the shutters shall not be too small
for complete coverage of the window. Shutters shall be wood. "Engineered" wood
may be approved during the site plan process with an approved sample and
examples of successful, high quality local installations. Refer to
Figure (B)(2) 5.
         (d)   Awnings.
            1.   Material. All awnings shall be canvas or metal. Plastic
awnings and canopy awnings with supports on the ground are prohibited. Awning
types and colors for each building face shall be coordinated. Refer to
Figure (B)(2) 6.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4272.jpg]
Figure (B)(2) 5 Windows & Shutters
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4274.jpg]
Figure (B)(2) 6 Awnings
            2.   Projection. Awnings may extend into the right-of-way no more
than six feet and no closer than three feet from back of curb.
            3.   Clearance. A minimum eight feet clear walkway is required
below all awnings.
            4.   Awnings shall not fully block any door, window, or
architectural element. If possible, locate the awning within window frame.
Awnings shall not project above the roof of the building.
         (e)   Balconies. The following applies in all locations where
balconies are incorporated into the facade design facing any street or parking
lot. Refer to
Figure (B)(2) 7.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4281.jpg]
Figure (B)(2) 7 Balconies Integral to Facade
            1.   Size. Balconies shall be a minimum of six feet deep and five
feet wide.
            2.   Connection to building. Balconies shall be integral to the
facade at the street line. Balconies on stepbacked stories shall be
independently secured and unconnected to other balconies.
            3.   Facade coverage. A maximum of 40% of the front and corner side
facades, as calculated separately, may be covered with balconies, including
street-facing railing and balcony structure.
            4.   Mechanical equipment on facades.
      (3)   Storefront building.
         (a)   Description and intent. The storefront building is a mixed use
building located at the front and corner lot lines allowing easy access to
passing pedestrians. Parking may be provided in the rear of the lot, internally
in the building, or, in some cases, no off-street parking is required.
Storefronts with large amounts of transparency and regularly spaced entrances
off the street are utilized on the ground floor front facade. Ground floor uses
are limited to those with high levels of pedestrian activity, such as retail,
service, and office uses,
with additional commercial, office, and/or residential uses in the upper
stories.
         (b)   Regulations. Regulations for the storefront building type are
defined in the following table.
 Permitted Districts
 DT 1:         DT 2:
 Downtown Core Sheridan Road
                                         Permitted Districts
                                         DT 1:                                        DT 2:
                                         Downtown Core                                Sheridan
                                                                                      Road
   1. Building Siting Refer to
Figure (B)(3) 1
a   Minimum Front Lot Line Coverage   95%                                          80% note 1
b   Occupation of Corner              Required                                     Required
c   Front Build-to-Zone               0' to 5'                                     10' to 20'
d   Corner Build-to-Zone              0' to 5' note 2                              0' to 10'
e   Minimum Side Yard Setback         0'; 5' if adjacent to other building type
f   Minimum Rear Yard Setback         5'; 25' if located adjacent to residential
g   Minimum Lot Width                 25'
h   Maximum Building Width            none; one paseo required for each 100' segment of
                                         buildings over 150' wide along the street note 3
   Maximum Impervious Coverage        75%                                          75%
   Additional Semi-Pervious Coverage  25%                                          25%
                                                                                      Rear Yard;
                                                                                      Side Yard
i   Parking & Loading Location        Rear yard                                    with
                                                                                      Conditions
                                                                                      note 1
   Entry for Parking within Building  Rear & Side Facades
j   Vehicular Access                  Alley; if no alley exists, construct per §  See Note 4
   Shared access is encouraged        152.018(E)
   2. Height Refer to
Figure (B)(3) 2
k   Minimum Overall Height            1 story                                      1 story
l   Maximum Overall Height            4 stories & 40'                              4 stories
m   Ground Story:
   Minimum Height                     12'                                          12'
   Maximum Height                     16'                                          16'
(Measured floor to floor)
n   Upper Stories:
   Minimum Height                     9'                                           9'
   Maximum Height                     12'                                          12'
(Measured floor to floor)
   3. Uses Refer to
Figure (B)(3) 2
o   Ground Stories                       Per §
                                         154.078(C) Uses
p   Upper Stories                        Per §
                                         154.078(C) Uses
q   Parking within Building           Permitted fully in any basement and in rear of upper
                                         floors
r   Occupied Space                    30' deep on all full height floors from the front
                                         facade
   4. Street Facade Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(3) 3
s   Minimum Ground Story Transparency
   Measured between 2' and 8' above   65%                                          65%
grade
t   Minimum Transparency              20%                                          20%
   Upper Stories
   Blank Wall Limitations
   Refer to Note 5 or §              Required per floor
154.078(B)(9)(d)2 for requirements.
u   Front Facade Entrance Type        Storefront
v   Principal Entrance Location       Front or Corner Facades
   Number of Front Facade Entrances   Minimum 1 for every 50' or less of facade
w   Ground Story Vertical Divisions   One per every 30' of facade width
x   Horizontal Facade Divisions       Within 3' of the top of the ground story
   Facade Variety Required
   Refer to Note 6 or §              Every 80' of facade width
154.078(B)(9)(d)8 for requirements.
   5. Roof Type Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(3) 3
y   Permitted Roof Types              Parapet, Pitched
   Tower                              Permitted
 
Notes:
1.   Lots wider than 100 feet are permitted one double-loaded aisle of parking
(maximum width of 70 feet), located perpendicular to the front lot line and
shall meet a front lot line coverage of 60%.
2.   Any corner side yard adjacent to Sheridan Road shall provide a corner side
yard of 15 feet.
3.   A paseo is an open air, ground floor walkway either through the building
or between buildings. Minimum width 12 feet, with storefront windows along 50%
of the walls.
4.   Access on Sheridan Road. Access to lots on Sheridan Road shall primarily
be from an alley. If no alley exists and the lot is either on a corner or side
yard is adjacent to an alley right-of-way, the alley shall be constructed the
full length or width of the parcel. For all other lots, one driveway is
permitted per lot.
5.   Blank wall limitations. A restriction of the amount of windowless area
permitted on a facade with street frontage. If required, the following shall
both be met for each story:
   a.   No rectangular area greater than 30% of a story's facade, as measured
from floor to floor, may be windowless; and
   b.   No horizontal segment of a story's facade greater than 15 feet in width
may be windowless.
6.   Facade variety requirements. Building design shall vary between designated
vertical facade divisions, where required per the building type, and from
adjacent buildings by the type of dominant material or color, scale, or
orientation of that material and at least two of the following. Refer to
Figure (B)(9) 4. Building Variety for one illustration of this requirement.
   a.   The proportion of recesses and projections.
   b.   The location of the entrance and window placement, unless storefronts
are utilized.
   c.   Roof type, plane, or material, unless otherwise stated in the building
type requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4285.jpg]
Figure (B)(3) 1 Building Siting
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4287.jpg]
Figure (B)(3) 2 Height & Use Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4289.jpg]
Figure (B)(3) 3 Street Facade Requirements
      (4)   General stoop building.
         (a)   Description and intent. The general stoop building type is
limited in terms of uses by the district within which it is located, generally
housing office and/or residential uses. Similar to the storefront building, the
general stoop building is intended to be built close to the front and corner
lot lines, but generally allows for more landscape space between the building
and the street. Parking may be provided in the rear of the lot, internally in
the building, or, in some cases, one double loaded aisle of parking is
permitted in the interior or the side yard at the front lot line.
         (b)   Regulations. Regulations for the general stoop building type are
defined in the following table.
 Permitted Districts
 DT 2:         DT 3:         DT 4:
 Sheridan Road Downtown Flex Downtown
                             Residential
                                  Permitted Districts
                                  DT 2:       DT 3:                                        DT 4:
                                  Sheridan    Downtown Flex                                Downtown
                                  Road                                                     Residential
1. Building Siting Refer to
Figure (B)(4) 1
a   Minimum Front Lot Line     80% note 1  80%                                          no
Coverage                                                                                   requirement
b   Occupation of Corner       Required    Required                                     Required
c   Front Build-to-Zone        15' to 25'  10' to 15'                                   15' to 25'
d   Corner Build-to-Zone       5' to 10'   5' to 10'                                    10' to 15'
e   Minimum Side Yard Setback  10'         5'                                           10'
                                  5'; 25' if
f   Minimum Rear Yard Setback  located     0'                                           25'
                                  adjacent to
                                  residential
g   Minimum Lot Width          25'         25'                                          25'
h   Maximum Building Width     none        none                                         100'
   Maximum Impervious Coverage 70%         60%                                          50%
   Additional Semi-Pervious    20%         15%                                          10%
Coverage
i   Parking & Loading Location Rear yard   Rear yard                                    Rear yard,
                                  note 1                                                   side yard
   Entry for Parking within    Rear & Side Facades
Building
                                                                                           One
j   Vehicular Access                       Alley; if no alley exists, construct per §  driveway
   Shared access is encouraged See Note 2  152.018(E)                                   per every
                                                                                           two
                                                                                           buildings
2. Height Refer to
Figure (B)(4) 2
k   Minimum Overall Height     1 story     1 story                                      1 story
l   Maximum Overall Height     3.5 stories 4.5 stories                                  3.5 stories
n   All Stories:
   Minimum Height              9'          9'                                           9'
   Maximum Height              12'         12' note 3                                   12'
3. Uses Refer to
Figure (B)(4) 2.
p   All Stories                All uses permitted per §
                                  154.078(C) with the exception of retail uses.
q   Parking within Building    Permitted fully in any basement and in rear of upper floors
r   Occupied Space             30' deep on all full height floors from the front facade
4. Street Facade Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(4) 3
t   Minimum Transparency       20%         15%                                          15%
   Per each Story
   Blank Wall Limitations
   Refer to Note 4 or §       Required per floor
154.078(B)(9)(d)2 for
requirements.
u   Front Facade Entrance Type Stoop, Porch
v   Principal Entrance LocationFront facade or corner facade
   Number of Street Entrances  Minimum 1 for every 150' or less of facade
w   Ground Story Vertical      Every 100'
Divisions                         of facade   Every 100' of facade width                   None
                                  width
x   Horizontal Facade DivisionsWithin 3' of the top of the ground story and any visible basement
   Facade Variety Required     Every 100'                                               Every 250'
   Refer to Note 5 or §       of facade   Every 150' of facade width                   of facade
154.078(B)(9)(d)8 for             width                                                    width
requirements.
5. Roof Type Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(4) 3
y   Permitted Roof Types       Parapet,    Parapet, Pitched                             Pitched
                                  Pitched
z   Tower                         Permitted
 
Notes:
1.   Lots wider than 100 feet are permitted one double-loaded aisle of parking
(maximum width of 70 feet), located perpendicular to the front lot line and
shall meet a front lot line coverage of 60%.
2.   Access on Sheridan Road. Access to lots on Sheridan Road shall primarily
be from an alley. If no alley exists and the lot is either on a corner or side
yard is adjacent to an alley right-of-way, the alley shall be constructed the
full length or width of the parcel. For all other lots, one driveway is
permitted per lot.
3.   Ground story maximum height is 18'; however, 14' or more in height counts
as two stories towards maximum building height.
4.   Blank wall limitations. A restriction of the amount of windowless area
permitted on a facade with street frontage. If required, the following shall
both be met for each story:
   a.   No rectangular area greater than 30% of a story's facade, as measured
from floor to floor, may be windowless; and
   b.   No horizontal segment of a story's facade greater than 15 feet in width
may be windowless.
5.   Facade variety requirements. Building design shall vary between designated
vertical facade divisions, where required per the building type, and from
adjacent buildings by the type of dominant material or color, scale, or
orientation of that material and at least two of the following. Refer to
Figure (B)(9) 4. Building Variety for one illustration of this requirement.
   a.   The proportion of recesses and projections.
   b.   The location of the entrance and window placement, unless storefronts
are utilized.
   c.   Roof type, plane, or material, unless otherwise stated in the building
type requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4297.jpg]
Figure (B)(4) 1 Building Siting
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4301.jpg]
Figure (B)(4) 2 Height & Use Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4304.jpg]
Figure (B)(4) 3 Street Facade Requirements
      (5)   Cottage commercial building.
         (a)   Description and intent. Commercial building combines
characteristics of the storefront building type with physical characteristics
of a residential cottage, such as a pitched roof and a front stoop or porch.
This lower-scale building has a pedestrian-friendly storefront, stoop, or porch
entrance type with moderate transparency and a primary entrance that faces the
street. Constructed with setbacks similar to a residential cottage, this
building typically has more landscape area than the storefront building types.
Parking is permitted in the rear of the lot or a side aisle (with conditions).
The cottage commercial building may contain a mix of uses, including retail,
service, and office uses on the ground floor, with residential uses on upper
floors.
         (b)   Regulations. Regulations for the cottage commercial building
type are defined in the following table.
 Permitted Districts
 DT 1:         DT 2:
 Downtown Core Sheridan Road
                                         Permitted Districts
                                         DT 1:                                        DT 2:
                                         Downtown Core                                Sheridan
                                                                                      Road
   1. Building Siting Refer to
Figure (B)(5) 1
a   Minimum Front Lot Line Coverage   85% note 1                                   85% note
                                                                                      1
b   Occupation of Corner              Required                                     Required
c   Front Build-to-Zone               5' to 15'                                    15' to
                                                                                      25'
d   Corner Build-to-Zone              0' to 15' note 2                             5' to
                                                                                      10'
e   Minimum Side Yard Setback         5'                                           10'
f   Minimum Rear Yard Setback         5'; 25' if located adjacent to residential
g   Minimum Lot Width                 25'                                          25'
h   Maximum Building Width            50'                                          50'
   Maximum Impervious Coverage        70%                                          70%
   Additional Semi-Pervious Coverage  25%                                          15%
                                                                                      Rear
i   Parking & Loading Location        Rear Yard note 1                             Yard
                                                                                      note 1
   Entry for Parking within Building  Rear Facade                                  Rear
                                                                                      Facade
j   Vehicular Access                  Alley; if no alley exists, construct per §  See Note
   Shared access is encouraged        152.018(E)                                   3
   2. Height Refer to
Figure (B)(5) 2
k   Minimum Overall Height            1.5 stories                                  1.5
                                                                                      stories
l   Maximum Overall Height            2.5 stories                                  2.5
                                                                                      stories
n   All Stories:   Minimum Height  8'                                           8'
            Maximum Height   14'                                          14'
   3. Uses Refer to
Figure (B)(5) 2
o   Ground Story                         Per §
                                         154.078(C) Uses except residential & lodging uses
p   Upper Stories                        Per §
                                         154.078(C) Uses except retail uses
q   Parking within Building           Permitted fully in any basement and in rear of upper
                                         floors
r   Occupied Space                    30' deep on all full height floors from the front
                                         facade
   4. Street Facade Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(5) 3
s   Minimum Ground Story Transparency
   Measured between 2' and 8' above   50%                                          35%
grade
t   Minimum Transparency              15%                                          15%
   Upper Stories
   Blank Wall Limitations
   Refer to Note 4 or §              Required per floor
154.078(B)(9)(d)2 for requirements.
u   Front Facade Entrance Type        Storefront, Stoop, Porch
v   Principal Entrance Location       Front or Corner Side Facade
   Number of Street Entrances         Minimum 1 per Building
   Ground Story Vertical Divisions    Not Required                                 Not
                                                                                      Required
x   Horizontal Facade Divisions       Within 3' of the top of any visible basement
   Facade Variety Required
   Refer to Note 5 or §              Between adjacent buildings
154.078(B)(9)(d)8 for requirements.
   5. Roof Type Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(5) 3
y   Permitted Roof Types                 Pitched
   Tower                                 Not Permitted
 
Notes:
1.   Lots wider than 80 feet are permitted one single-loaded aisle of parking
(maximum width of 40 feet), located perpendicular to the front lot line, and
shall meet a front lot line coverage of 50%.
2.   Any corner side yard adjacent to Sheridan Road shall have a build-to zone
of 15 to 20 feet.
3.   Access on Sheridan Road. Access to lots on Sheridan Road shall primarily
be from an alley. If no alley exists and the lot is either on a corner or side
yard is adjacent to an alley right-of-way, the alley shall be constructed the
full length or width of the parcel. For all other lots, one driveway is
permitted per lot.
4.   Blank wall limitations. A restriction of the amount of windowless area
permitted on a facade with street frontage. If required, the following shall
both be met for each story:
   a.   No rectangular area greater than 30% of a story's facade, as measured
from floor to floor, may be windowless; and
   b.   No horizontal segment of a story's facade greater than 15 feet in width
may be windowless.
5.   Facade variety requirements. Building design shall vary between designated
vertical facade divisions, where required per the building type, and from
adjacent buildings by the type of dominant material or color, scale, or
orientation of that material and at least two of the following. Refer to
Figure (B)(9) 4. Building Variety for one illustration of this requirement.
   a.   The proportion of recesses and projections.
   b.   The location of the entrance and window placement, unless storefronts
are utilized.
   c.   Roof type, plane, or material, unless otherwise stated in the building
type requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4312.jpg]
Figure (B)(5) 1 Building Siting
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4314.jpg]
Figure (B)(5) 2 Height & Use Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4316.jpg]
Figure (B)(5) 3 Street Facade Requirements
      (6)   Civic building.
         (a)   Description and intent. The civic building is a more flexible
building type intended only for civic and institutional types of uses. These
buildings are distinctive within the community fabric created by the other
building types. In contrast to most of the other building types, a minimum
setback line is required instead of a build to zone. Parking is limited to the
rear in most cases. The maximum heights of this building type depend on the
district within which it is located.
         (b)   Regulations. Regulations for the civic building type are defined
in the following table.
 Permitted Districts
 DT 1:         DT 2:         DT 3:
 Downtown Core Sheridan Road Downtown
                             Flex
                               Permitted Districts
                               DT 1:                                        DT 2:     DT 3:
                               Downtown Core                                Sheridan  Downtown
                                                                            Road      Flex
1. Building Siting Refer to
Figure (B)(6) 1
   Minimum Front Lot Line   None                                         None      None
Coverage
   Occupation of Corner     None                                         None      None
c   Front Setback           0'                                           10'       5'
d   Corner Setback          10'                                          10'       10'
e   Minimum Side Yard Setbac5'                                           5'        15'
f   Minimum Rear Yard Setbac5'; 25' if located adjacent to residential             20'
g   Minimum Lot Width       60'                                          60'       60'
   Maximum Building Width   none                                         none      none
   Maximum Impervious Covera70%                                          70%       70%
   Additional Semi-Pervious 20%                                          20%       20%
Coverage
i   Parking & Loading Locati   Rear yard note 1
   Entry for Parking within Rear & Side Facades
Building
j   Vehicular Access        Alley; if no alley exists, construct per §  See Note  Alley; if no alley exists, construct per §
   Shared access is encourag152.018(E)                                   2         152.018(E)
2. Height Refer to
Figure (B)(6) 2
k   Minimum Overall Height  1 story                                      1 story   1 story
l   Maximum Overall Height  4 stories                                    3.5       4 stories
                                                                            stories
m   Ground Story:
   Minimum Height           9'                                           9'        9'
   Maximum Height           18' note 2                                   18' note  18' note 3
                                                                            3
n   Upper Stories:
   Minimum Height           9'                                           9'        9'
   Maximum Height           14'                                          14'       14'
3. Uses Refer to
Figure (B)(6) 2
p   All Stories             Limited to uses in the civic category per §
                               154.078(C) Uses.
q   Parking within Building Permitted fully in any basement and in rear of upper floors
r   Occupied Space          30' deep on all full height floors from the front facade
4. Street Facade Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(6) 3
t   Minimum Transparency    12%                                          12%       12%
   Per each story
   Blank Wall Limitations
   Refer to §              None                                         None      None
154.078(B)(9)(d)2 for
requirements.
u   Front Facade Entrance TyStoop, Storefront                                      Stoop
v   Principal Entrance      Front or corner facade
Location
   Number of Street Entrance1 per each 150' of front facade
   Ground Story Vertical    none required
Divisions
   Horizontal Facade Divisionone required
   Facade Variety Required
   Refer to §              none required
154.078(B)(9)(d)8 for
requirements.
5. Roof Type Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(6) 3
y   Permitted Roof Types    Parapet, Pitched, Other Roofs with Approval
z   Tower                      Permitted                              Permitted Permitted
 
Notes:
1.   Lots wider than 100 feet are permitted one double-loaded aisle of parking
(maximum width of 70 feet), located perpendicular to the front lot line.
2.   Access on Sheridan Road. Access to lots on Sheridan Road shall primarily
be from an alley. If no alley exists and the lot is either on a corner or side
yard is adjacent to an alley right-of-way, the alley shall be constructed the
full length or width of the parcel. For all other lots, one driveway is
permitted per lot.
3.   18' or more in height counts as two stories towards maximum building
height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4324.jpg]
Figure (B)(6) 1 Building Siting
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4326.jpg]
Figure (B)(6) 2 Hieght & Use Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4328.jpg]
Figure (B)(6) 3 Street Facade Requirements
      (7)   Row building.
         (a)   Description and intent. The row building is a building comprised
of multiple vertical units, each with its own entrance to the street. This
building type may be organized as townhouses or rowhouses. Parking is required
to be located in the rear yard and may be incorporated either into a detached
garage or in an attached garaged accessed from the rear of the building.
However, when the garage is located within the building, a minimum level of
occupied space is required on the front facade to ensure that the street facade
is active.
         (b)   Regulations. Regulations for the row building type are defined
in the following table.
    Permitted Districts
 DT 3:         DT 4:
 Downtown Flex Downtown Residential
                                       Permitted Districts
                                    DT 3:                                        DT 4:
                                    Downtown Flex                                Downtown
                                                                                 Residential
   1. Building Siting Refer to
Figure (B)(7) 1
a   Minimum Front Lot Line Covera75% note 1                                   65% note 1
b   Occupation of Corner         Required                                     Required
c   Front Build-to-Zone          10' to 15'                                   15' to 25'
d   Corner Build-to-Zone         10' to 15'                                   10' to 15'
                                                                                 0' per
e   Minimum Side Yard Setback    0' per unit;                                 unit;
                                    15' between buildings                        15' between
                                                                                 buildings
                                                                                 30', if
f   Minimum Rear Yard Setback    20', if alley present 5'                     alley
                                                                                 present 5'
                                                                                 24' per
                                                                                 unit
g   Minimum Unit Width           18' per unit                                 Maximum 4
h   Maximum Building Width       Maximum 8 units per building; maximum 180'   units per
                                    width                                        building;
                                                                                 maximum
                                                                                 100' width
   Maximum Impervious Coverage   75%                                          60%
   Additional Semi-Pervious      20%                                          20%
Coverage
                                                                                 Rear yard;
                                                                                 attached
i   Parking & Garage Location    Rear yard; attached garages access off rear  garages
                                    facade only                                  access off
                                                                                 rear facade
                                                                                 only
                                                                                 One
j   Vehicular Access             Alley; if no alley exists, construct per §  driveway
   Shared access is encouraged   152.018(E)                                   per every
                                                                                 two
                                                                                 buildings
   2. Height Refer to
Figure (B)(7) 2
k   Minimum Overall Height       2 story                                      2 story
l   Maximum Overall Height       3.5 stories                                  3 stories
n   All Stories:
   Minimum Height                9'                                           9'
   Maximum Height                14'                                          12'
   3. Uses Refer to
Figure (B)(7) 2
o   Ground Story                 Residential; service & employment uses       Residential
                                    permitted when utilized as live-work units   only
p   Upper Stories                Residential only                             Residential
                                                                                 only
q   Parking within Building      Permitted fully in any basement and in rear of upper
                                    floors
r   Occupied Space               30' deep on all full height floors from the front facade
   4. Street Facade Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(7) 3
t   Minimum Transparency         15% 2                                        12%
   Per each story
   Blank Wall Limitations
   Refer to Note 2 or §         Required per floor
154.078(B)(9)(d)2 for requirements.
u   Front Facade Entrance Type   Storefront note 3, Stoop, Porch              Stoop,
                                                                                 Porch
v   Principal Entrance Location  Front, Corner Side, or Courtyard Facade
   Number of Street or Courtyard 1 per unit
Entrances
w   Vertical Divisions           Every two units
x   Horizontal Facade Divisions  Between any visible basement and the ground story
   Facade Variety Required
   Refer to Note 4 or §         Between adjacent buildings
154.078(B)(9)(d)8 for requirements.
   5. Roof Type Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(7) 3.
y   Permitted Roof Types         Parapet, Pitched
z   Tower                        One permitted per building
 
Notes:
1.   For the purposes of the row building, a building consists of a series of
units. Each building shall meet the front lot line coverage requirement, except
one of every five units may front a courtyard with a minimum width of 30 feet.
The courtyard shall be defined on three sides by units and may count towards
the minimum front lot line coverage.
2.   Blank wall limitations. A restriction of the amount of windowless area
permitted on a facade with street frontage. If required, the following shall
both be met for each story:
   a.   No rectangular area greater than 30% of a story's facade, as measured
from floor to floor, may be windowless; and
   b.   No horizontal segment of a story's facade greater than 15 feet in width
may be windowless.
3.   The storefront entrance type is permitted on buildings that are designated
for live-work units. When the storefront entrance type is utilized, the maximum
ground story transparency for the unit is 55% as measured between two feet and
eight feet above grade.
4.   Facade variety requirements. Building design shall vary between designated
vertical facade divisions, where required per the building type, and from
adjacent buildings by the type of dominant material or color, scale, or
orientation of that material and at least two of the following. Refer to
Figure (B)(9) 4. Building Variety for one illustration of this requirement.
   a.   The proportion of recesses and projections.
   b.   The location of the entrance and window placement, unless storefronts
are utilized.
   c.   Roof type, plane, or material, unless otherwise stated in the building
type requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4336.jpg]
Figure (B)(7) 1 Building Siting
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4338.jpg]
Figure (B)(7) 2 Height & Use Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4340.jpg]
Figure (B)(7) 3 Street Facade Requirements
      (8)   Yard building.
         (a)   Description and intent. The yard building is a residential
building, incorporating a landscaped yard surrounding all sides of the
building. Parking and garages are limited to the rear only with preferred
access from an alley. A series of yard buildings can be located around a
courtyard with a minimum number located along the street.
         (b)   Regulations. Regulations for the yard building type are defined
in the following table.
 Permitted Districts
 DT 4:
 Downtown Residential
                                     Permitted Districts
                                     DT 4:
                                     Downtown Residential
   1. Building Siting Refer to
Figure (B)(8) 1
a   Minimum Front Lot Line Coverag65% note 1
b   Occupation of Corner          Required
c   Front Build-to-Zone           15' to 25'
d   Corner Build-to-Zone          15' to 25'
e   Minimum Side Yard Setback     7.5'
f   Minimum Rear Yard Setback     25', if alley present 5'
g   Minimum Lot Width             30'
   Maximum Lot Width              70'
   Maximum Impervious Coverage    60%
   Additional Semi-Pervious Covera20%
i   Parking & Garage Location     Rear yard; attached garages access off
                                     rear facade only. note 2
j   Vehicular Access              Alley; if no alley exists, one driveway is
                                     permitted per building
   2. Height Refer to
Figure (B)(8) 2
k   Minimum Overall Height        1.5 stories
l   Maximum Overall Height        3 stories
n   All Stories:
   Minimum Height                 9'
   Maximum Height                 14'
   3. Uses Refer to
Figure (B)(8) 2.
p   All Stories                   Residential only
q   Parking within Building       Permitted
r   Occupied Space                30'
   4. Street Facade Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(8) 3
t   Minimum Transparency          12%
   Per each story
   Blank Wall Limitations
   Refer to Note 3 or §          N/A
154.078(B)(9)(d)2 for requirements.
u   Front Facade Entrance Type    Stoop, Porch
v   Principal Entrance Location   Any
   Number of Street or Courtyard  Any
Entrances
w   Ground Story Vertical DivisionNone required
x   Horizontal Facade Divisions   None required
   Facade Variety Required
   Refer to Note 4 or §          Between adjacent buildings
154.078(B)(9)(d)8 for requirements.
   5. Roof Type Requirements Refer to
Figure (B)(8) 3
y   Permitted Roof Types          Parapet, Pitched
   Tower                          Not permitted
 
Notes
1.   When multiple buildings are located on a single lot, each building shall
meet the front lot line coverage requirement, except for every one building
three additional buildings may front a courtyard with a minimum width of 30
feet. The courtyard shall be defined on three sides by units.
2.   Attached garages are considered part of the principal building and shall
meet all setbacks. Detached garages shall meet all setbacks unless an alley is
present. When an alley is present, detached garages shall have a minimum rear
setback of 5'.
3.   Blank wall limitations. A restriction of the amount of windowless area
permitted on a facade with street frontage. If required, the following shall
both be met for each story:
   a.   No rectangular area greater than 30% of a story's facade, as measured
from floor to floor, may be windowless; and
   b.   No horizontal segment of a story's facade greater than 15 feet in width
may be windowless.
4.   Facade variety requirements. Building design shall vary between designated
vertical facade divisions, where required per the building type, and from
adjacent buildings by the type of dominant material or color, scale, or
orientation of that material and at least two of the following. Refer to
Figure (B)(9) 4. Building Variety for one illustration of this requirement.
   a.   The proportion of recesses and projections.
   b.   The location of the entrance and window placement, unless storefronts
are utilized.
   c.   Roof type, plane, or material, unless otherwise stated in the building
type requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4348.jpg]
Figure (B)(8) 1 Building Siting
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4350.jpg]
Figure (B)(8) 2 Height & Use Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4352.jpg]
Figure (B)(8) 3 Street Facade Requirements
      (9)   Explanation of building type table standards. The following
explains and further defines the standards outlined on the tables for each
building type, refer to §
154.078(B)(3) through (B)(8).
         (a)   Building siting. The following explains the line item
requirements for each building type table within the first section entitled
"Building Siting."
Table (B)(9)1, illustrates an example of a building siting table from a typical
building type.
            1.   Minimum front lot line coverage. Refer to
Figure (B)(9) 1. Measuring Front Lot Line Coverage. Measurement defining the
minimum percentage of street wall or building facade along the street. The
width of the principal structure(s) (as measured within the front build-to
zone) shall be divided by the maximum width of the front build-to zone (BTZ).
 Permitted Districts
 District A District B
                                  Permitted Districts
                                  District A    District B
(a)   Building Siting
Multiple Principal Buildings      Not permitted Not permitted
Minimum Front Lot Line Coverage   95%           65%
Occupation of Corner              Required      Required
Front Build-to Zone               0' to 20' 1   5' to 20' 1
Corner Built-to Zone              0' to 5'      0' to 10'
Minimum Side Yard Setback         0'            5'
Minimum Rear Yard Setback            5'; 25' if located adjacent to residential
Minimum Lot Width                 30'           30'
Maximum Building Width            none          none
Maximum Impervious Coverage       75% 3         65% 3
Additional Semi-Pervious Coverage 25%           15%
Parking & Loading Location        Rear yard     Rear Yard
Entry for Parking within Building    Rear & Side Facades
Vehicular Access                  Alley; if no alley exists, 1 driveway per
                                  street frontage
Table (B)(9)1. Example Building Siting Requirements Table from a Typical
Building Type.
               a.   Certain buildings have this number set to also allow the
development of a courtyard along the front lot line.
               b.   Some frontage types allow side yard parking to be exempted
from the front lot line coverage calculation. If such an exemption is
permitted, the width of up to one double loaded aisle of parking, located with
the drive perpendicular to the street and including adjacent sidewalks and
landscaping, may be exempted, to a set maximum in feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4362.jpg]
Figure (B)(9) 1 Measuring Front Lot Line Coverage
               c.   When a driveway is located at the front lot line and a side
yard parking is not utilized, a driveway width of 20' may be deducted from the
width of the BTZ and is not included in the calculation of the minimum front
lot line.
            2.   Occupation of corner. Occupying the intersection of the front
and corner build-to zones with a principal structure.
            3.   Front build-to zone. The build-to zone or setback parallel to
the front lot line. Building components, such as awnings or signage, are
permitted to encroach beyond the build-to zone.
            4.   Corner build-to zone. The build-to zone or setback parallel to
the corner side lot line.
            5.   Minimum side yard setback. The minimum required setback along
a side lot line.
            6.   Minimum rear yard setback. The minimum required setback along
a rear lot line.
            7.   Minimum lot width. The minimum width of a lot, measured at the
front lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4364.jpg]
Figure (B)(9) 2 Maximum Impervious & Semi-Impervious Coverage
            8.   Maximum building width. The maximum width of a building,
measured across the front facade.
            9.   Maximum impervious coverage. (Refer to
Figure (B)(9) 2. Maximum Impervious & Semi-Impervious Coverage). The maximum
percentage of a lot permitted to be covered by principal structures, accessory
structures, pavement, and other impervious surfaces.
            10.   Additional semi-pervious coverage. The additional percentage
of a lot beyond the maximum impervious coverage, which may be surfaced in a
semi-pervious material, including a green roof or pavers.
            11.   Parking and loading location. The yard in which a surface
parking lot, detached garage, attached garage door access, loading and
unloading, and associated drive is permitted.
            12.   Entry for parking within building. Permitted garage door
location for parking entrance when parking is located within building.
            13.   Vehicular access. The permitted means of vehicular ingress
and egress to the lot.
               a.   Alleys, when present, shall always be the primary means of
access with the exception of inner lots on Sheridan Road.
               b.   When alleys are not present, driveways may be permitted per
building type and, if an alternative is available, shall not be located off a
primary street.
         (b)   Height. The following explains the line item requirements for
each building type table within the second section entitled "Height".
Table (B)(9)2, illustrates an example of a height requirements table from a
typical building type.
 Permitted Districts
 District A District B
                       Permitted Districts
                       District A District B
(b)   Height
Minimum Overall Height 2 stories  2 story
Maximum Overall Height 5 stories  5 stories
Ground Story:
   Minimum Height   14'        14'
   Maximum Height   18'        18'
Upper Stories:
   Minimum Height   9'         9'
   Maximum Height   12'        12'
Table (B)(9)2. Example Height Requirements Table from a Typical Building Type.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4373.jpg]
Figure (B)(9) 3 Measuring Height
            1.   Minimum height (in stories). The minimum overall height for
the building shall be located within the build-to zone; stories above the
minimum height may be stepped back from the facade.
            2.   Maximum height (in stories). The sum of a building's total
number of stories.
               a.   Half stories are located either completely within the roof
structure with street-facing windows or in a visible basement exposed a maximum
of one half story above grade.
               b.   A building incorporating both a half story within the roof
and a visible basement shall count the height of the two half stories as one
full story.
               c.   Some building types require a building facade to step back
as its height increases. The upper stories of any building facade with street
frontage shall be setback a designated amount beyond the building facade of the
lower stories.
               d.   Floors within the building shall be visibly designated on
the street facades by the use of expression lines or the layout of the windows.
            3.   Ground story and upper story, minimum and maximum height.
(Refer to
Figure (B)(9) 3. Measuring Height). Each frontage type includes a permitted
range of height in feet for each story. Additional information is as follows:
               a.   Floor height is measured in feet between the floor of a
story to the floor of the story above it.
               b.   For single story buildings and the uppermost story of a
multiple story building, floor to floor height shall be measured from the floor
of the story to the tallest point of the ceiling.
               c.   Double height spaces may be located along any non-street
facade or in the entrance way to the building. The entrance way shall not
exceed 50% of the street facade.
         (c)   Uses. The following explains the line item requirements for each
building type table within the third section entitled "Uses." Refer to division
(C) of this section for uses permitted within each zoning district. The
requirements in this section of the building type tables may limit those uses
within a specific building type.
Table (B)(9)3, illustrates an example of the uses table from a typical building
type.
 
                        Permitted Districts
                        District A District B
(c)   Uses
Ground Story            Per Section 15.3 Uses
Upper Story             Per Section 15.3 Uses
Parking within Building Permitted fully in any basement and in rear or upper
                        floors
Occupied Space          30' deep on all full height floors from the front
                        facade
Table (B)(9)3. Example Uses Table from a Typical Building Type.
            1.   Ground and upper story. The uses or category of uses which may
occupy the ground and/or upper story of a building.
            2.   Parking within building. The area(s) of a building in which
parking is permitted within the structure.
            3.   Occupied space. The area(s) of a building that shall be
designed as occupied space, defined as interior building space regularly
occupied by the building users. It does not include storage areas, utility
space, or parking.
         (d)   Street facade requirements. The following explains the line item
requirements for each building type table within the fourth section entitled
"Street Facade Requirements." These requirements apply only to facades facing a
public or private street right-of-way. The rear or interior side yard facades
are not required to meet these standards unless otherwise stated.
Table (B)(9)4 illustrates an example of a street facade requirements table from
a typical building type.
 Permitted Districts
 District A District B
                                  Permitted Districts
                                  District A District B
(d)   Street Facade Requirements
Minimum Ground Story Transparency
Measured between 2' and 8' above  65%        65%
grade
Minimum Transparency              20%        20%
Upper Stories
Blank Wall Limitations            Required per floor
Front Facade Entrance Type        Storefront, Arcade
Principal Entrance Location       Front or Corner Facades
Number of Street Entrances        Minimum 1 for every 50' or less of facade
Ground Story Vertical Divisions   One per every 30' of facade width
Horizontal Facade Divisions       Within 3' of the top of the ground story and
                                  the bottom of any fifth floor
Facade Variety Required
Refer to (B)(2)(d)(8) for         Every 80' of facade width
requirements
Table (B)(9)4. Example Street Facade Requirements Table from a Typical Building
Type.
            1.   Minimum ground story and upper floor transparency. (Refer to
Figure (B)(9) 5. Measuring Transparency per Facade). The minimum amount of
transparency on street facades with street frontage.
               a.   Transparency is any glass in windows and/or doors,
including any mullions, that is highly transparent with low reflectance.
                  i.   Ground story transparency, when defined separately from
the overall minimum transparency, shall be measured between two feet and eight
feet from the average grade at the base of the front facade.
                  ii.   A general minimum transparency requirement shall be
measured from floor to floor of each story.
            2.   Blank wall limitations. A restriction of the amount of
windowless area permitted on a facade with street frontage. If required, the
following shall both be met for each story:
               a.   No rectangular area greater than 30% of a story's facade,
as measured from floor to floor, may be windowless; and
               b.   No horizontal segment of a story's facade greater than 15
feet in width may be windowless.
            3.   Front facade entrance type. The entrance type(s) permitted for
the entrance(s) of a given building type. A mix of permitted entrance types may
be utilized. Refer to division (B)(10) Entrance Types for definition of and
additional requirements for each entrance type.
            4.   Principal entrance location. The facade on which the primary
building entrance is to be located.
            5.   Number of street entrances. The minimum number of and maximum
spacing between entrances on the ground floor building facade with street
frontage.
            6.   Ground story vertical divisions. The use of a vertically
oriented expression line or form to divide the ground floor facade into
increments no greater than the dimension shown, as measured along the base of
the facade, and extending a minimum of 80% from the average grade of the facade
elevation to the interior ceiling. Elements may include a column, pilaster, or
other continuous vertical ornamentation.
            7.   Horizontal facade divisions. The use of a horizontally
oriented expression line or form to divide portions of the facade into
horizontal divisions, extending a minimum of 90% of the full width of the
facade. Elements may include a cornice, belt course, molding, string courses,
or other continuous horizon ornamentation a minimum of one and a half inch
depth.
            8.   Facade variety requirements. Building design shall vary
between designated vertical facade divisions, where required per the building
type, and from adjacent buildings by the type of dominant material or color,
scale, or orientation of that material and at least two of the following. Refer
to
Figure (B)(9) 4. Building Variety for one illustration of this requirement.
               a.   The proportion of recesses and projections.
               b.   The location of the entrance and window placement, unless
storefronts are utilized.
               c.   Roof type, plane, or material, unless otherwise stated in
the building type requirements.
         (e)   Roof type. The following explains the line item requirements for
each building type table in divisions (B)(3) through (B)(8) of this section,
within the fifth section entitled "Roof Types."
Table (B)(9)5 illustrates an example of a roof type requirements table from a
typical building type.
 
                     Permitted Districts
                     District A District B
(e)   Roof Type Requirements
Permitted Roof Types Parapet, Pitched, Flat
Tower                Permitted
Table (B)(9)5. Example Roof Type Requirements Table from a Typical Building
Type.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4383.jpg]
Figure (B)(9) 4 Building Variety
            1.   Permitted roof type. The roof type(s) permitted for a given
building type. Refer to division (B)(11) Roof Types for more specific
requirements.
            2.   Tower. A vertical building extension that may be permitted in
conjunction with another roof type on certain building types. Refer to division
(B)(11) Roof Types.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4385.jpg]
Figure (B)(9) 5 Measuring Transparency per Facade
      (10)   Entrance types. Entrance type standards apply to the ground story
and visible basement of front facades of all building types as defined in this
section. Refer to the building type table requirements, divisions (B)(3)
through (B)(8) of this section.
         (a)   General. The following provisions apply to all entrance types.
            1.   Intent. To guide the design of the ground story of all
buildings to relate appropriately to pedestrians on the street. Treatment of
other portions of the building facades is detailed in each building type
standard (refer to Building Types divisions (B)(3) through (B)(8) of this
section).
            2.   Applicability. The entire ground story street-facing facade(s)
of all buildings shall meet the requirements of at least one of the permitted
entrance types, unless otherwise stated.
            3.   Measuring transparency. Refer to division (B)(9)(d) of this
section in explanation of building type table standards, for information on
measuring building transparency.
            4.   Visible basements. Visible basements, permitted by entrance
type, are optional. The visible basement shall be a maximum of one-half the
height of the tallest story.
         (b)   Storefront entrance type. (Refer to
Figure (B)(10) 1) The storefront entrance type is a highly transparent ground
story treatment designed to serve primarily as the display area and primary
entrance for retail or service uses.
            1.   Transparency. Minimum transparency is required per building
type.
            2.   Elevation. Storefront elevation shall be between zero and one
foot above street sidewalk.
            3.   Visible basement. A visible basement is not permitted.
            4.   Horizontal facade division. Horizontally define the ground
story facade from the upper stories.
            5.   Entrance. All entries shall be recessed from the front facade
closest to the street.
               a.   Recess shall be a minimum of three feet and a maximum of
eight feet deep, measured from the portion of the front facade closest to the
street.
               b.   When the recess falls behind the front build-to zone, the
recess shall be no wider than eight feet.
         (c)   Stoop entrance type. (Refer to
Figure (B)(10) 2) A stoop is an unroofed, open platform.
            1.   Transparency. Minimum transparency is required per building
type.
            2.   Stoop size. Stoops shall be a minimum of three feet deep and
six feet wide.
            3.   Elevation. Stoop elevation shall be located a maximum of 2'-6"
above the sidewalk without visible basement and a maximum of 4'-6" above the
sidewalk with a visible basement. Americans with Disabilities Act requirements
must be met.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4392.jpg]
Figure (B)(10) 1 Storefront Entrance Type      Figure (B)(10) 2 Stoop Entrance
Type
            4.   Visible basement. A visible basement is permitted and shall be
separated from the ground story by an expression line.
            5.   Entrance. All entries shall be located off a stoop. The stoop
may be continuous along the facade of the building.
            6.   Landscape area. A minimum five foot wide landscape area is
required within the build-to zone along the length of this entrance type with
the exception of walks accessing the building.
         (d)   Porch entrance type. (Refer to
Figure (B)(10) 3) A porch is a raised, roofed platform that may or may not be
enclosed on all sides. If enclosed, the space shall not be climate controlled.
            1.   Transparency.
               a.   Minimum transparency per building type is required.
               b.   If enclosed, a minimum of 40% of the enclosed porch shall
be comprised of highly transparent, low reflectance windows.
            2.   Porch size. The porch shall be a minimum of five feet deep and
eight feet wide.
            3.   Elevation. Porch elevation shall be located a maximum of 2'-6"
above the sidewalk without a visible basement and a maximum of 4'-6" above the
sidewalk with a visible basement. Americans with Disabilities Act requirements
must be met.
            4.   Visible basement. A visible basement is permitted.
            5.   Height. Porch may be two stories to provide a balcony on the
second floor.
            6.   Entrance. All entries shall be located off a porch.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4396.jpg]
Figure (B)(10) 3 Porch Entrance Type
      (11)   Roof types. Roof type standards apply to the roof and cap of all
building types as defined in this section. Refer to the building type table
requirements, divisions (B)(3) through (B)(8) of this section.
         (a)   General provisions. The following provisions apply to all roof
types.
            1.   Intent. To guide the design of the cap of all buildings.
            2.   Applicability. All buildings shall meet the requirements of
one of the roof types permitted for the building type.
            3.   Measuring height. Refer to division (B)(9)(b) of this section
for information on measuring building height.
            4.   Other roof types. Other building caps not listed as a specific
type may be requested with the following requirements:
               a.   The roof type shall not create additional occupiable space
beyond that permitted by the building type.
               b.   The shape of the roof type shall be significantly different
from those defined in this division (B)(11) Roof Types, i.e. a dome, spire,
vault.
               c.   The building shall warrant a separate status within the
community from the fabric of surrounding buildings, with a correspondence
between the form of the roof type and the meaning of the building use.
         (b)   Parapet roof type. (Refer to
Figure (B)(11) 1, Parapet Roof Type) A parapet is a low wall projecting above a
building's roof along the perimeter of the building. It can be utilized with a
flat or low pitched roof and also serves to limit the view of roof-top
mechanical systems from the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4400.jpg]
Figure (B)(11) 1, Parapet Roof Type
            1.   Parapet height. Height is measured from the top of the upper
story to the top of the parapet.
               a.   Minimum height is two feet with a maximum height of six
feet.
               b.   The parapet shall be high enough to screen the roof and any
roof appurtenances from view of the street(s).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4407.jpg]
Figure (B)(11) 2 Pitched Roof Type
            2.   Horizontal expression lines. An expression line shall define
the parapet from the upper stories of the building and shall also define the
top of the cap.
            3.   Occupied space. Occupied space shall not be incorporated
behind this roof type.
         (c)   Pitched roof type. (Refer to
Figure (B)(11) 2, Pitched Roof Type) This roof type has a sloped or pitched
roof. Slope is measured with the vertical rise divided by the horizontal span
or run.
            1.   Pitch measure. The roof may not be sloped less than a 4:12
(rise:run) or more than 16:12.
               a.   Slopes less than 4:12 are permitted to occur on second
story or higher roofs.
               b.   Mansard roofs may have slopes above 16:12 for the lower
portion of the roof.
            2.   Configurations.
               a.   Hipped, gabled, combination of hips and gables, and gambrel
with or without dormers are permitted. Gambrel and gabled roofs are preferred.
               b.   Mansard roofs are permitted with the following
requirements:
                  i.   They are required to have occupied space beneath the
roof counting as a half story.
                  ii.   The steepest portion of the roof shall be no greater
than the tallest permitted height of one upper story.
                  iii.   A protruding dormer is required for every 15 feet of
ridge line on any street face with a minimum of one dormer per street face.
            3.   Parallel ridge line. With the exception of the mansard roof, a
gabled end or perpendicular ridge line shall occur at least every 100 feet of
roof when the ridge line runs parallel to the front lot line. (Refer to
Figure (B)(11) 3. Parallel Ridge Line)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4409.jpg]
Figure (B)(11) 3 Parallel Ridge Line
            4.   Roof height. Roofs without occupied space and/or dormers shall
have a maximum height on street-facing facades equal to the maximum floor
height permitted for the building type.
            5.   Occupied space. Occupied space may be incorporated behind this
roof type.
         (d)   Towers. (Refer to
Figure (B)(11) 4) A tower is a rectilinear or cylindrical, vertical element,
that shall be used with other roof types.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4411.jpg]
Figure (B)(11) 4 Tower
            1.   Quantity. All building types, with the exception of the civic
building, are limited to one tower per building.
            2.   Tower height. Maximum height, measured from the top of the
parapet or eave to the top of the tower, is the equivalent of the height of one
upper floor of the building to which the tower is applied.
            3.   Tower width. Maximum width along all facades is one-third the
width of the front facade or 30 feet, whichever is less.
            4.   Horizontal expression lines. An expression line shall define
the tower from the upper stories, except on single family or attached house
residential building types.
            5.   Occupied space. Towers may be occupied by the same uses
allowed in upper stories of the building type to which it is applied.
            6.   Application. May be combined with all other roof types.
            7.   Tower cap. The tower may be capped by the parapet or pitched
roof types, or the spire may cap the tower. Pitched cap is preferred.
   (C)   Uses.
      (1)   General provisions. The following establishes a set of uses
permitted within each of the downtown zoning districts. All uses shall occur
within a permitted building type, unless otherwise noted or defined.
         (a)   Uses by district. Permitted and special uses for each downtown
district are shown in
Table (C)(2) 1. Permitted Uses.
         (b)   Use definitions. Uses listed in
Table (C)(2) 1 are defined in §
154.003. Further definitions applicable only to the DT districts are located in
this section under division (C)(2) of this section.
         (c)   Permitted Use. These uses are permitted by-right in the downtown
districts in which they are listed.
         (d)   Permitted in upper stories. These uses are permitted by-right in
the districts in which they are listed, provided that the uses are located in
the upper stories of the structure. These uses may also be located in the
ground story provided that they are located beyond a depth of at least 30 feet
from the front facade.
         (e)   Requires a special use permit. These uses require a special use
permit (refer to §§
154.280 through
154.286 Special Use Regulations) in order to occur in the districts in which
they are listed and must follow any applicable development standards associated
with the use as well as meet the requirements of the special use. Uses
requiring a special use permit are defined in
Table (C)(2) 1. Permitted Use Table. Special uses relating to recreational
cannabis require compliance with the procedures outlined in the Cannabis
Overlay Code,
Chapter 154A of this title.
         (f)   Permitted with development standards. These uses are permitted
in the districts in which they are listed, provided that they are developed
utilizing the listed development standards. These standards, combined with the
building type requirements, are intended to alleviate any negative impacts
associated with the use, making it appropriate in a district where it otherwise
might not have been appropriate.
         (g)   Prohibited use. A blank cell or an unlisted use in the use table
indicates that the use is prohibited in that district.
         (h)   Community Development Director determination. When a proposed
land use is not explicitly listed in
Table (C)(2) 1. Permitted Uses, the village shall determine whether or not it
is included in the definition of a listed use or is so consistent with the
size, scale, operating characteristics and external impacts of a listed use
that it should be treated as the same use. Any such determination may be
appealed to the Planning and Zoning Board.
         (i)   Temporary accessory uses. Temporary accessory uses are permitted
in the DT 1 and DT 2 districts, including outdoor displays, seasonal displays
and sales, festivals, and vendors. The following requirements apply:
            1.   Outdoor displays are permitted up to eight hours per day, no
more than three consecutive days in any one month.
            2.   Build-to zone. Temporary outdoor displays of merchandise are
permitted in the build-to zone without a permit.
      (2)   Use requirements.
         (a)   Residential uses. A category of uses that include several
residence types.
            1.   Residential. One or more dwelling units located within the
principal structure of a lot, in which the units may or may not share a common
wall with the adjacent (horizontally or vertically) unit or have individual
entrances from the outside.
            2.   Senior apartments and housing. A facility consisting of
multiple independent and semi-independent dwelling units, each occupied by not
more than two residents per unit, at least one of whom is 62 years of age or
older or disabled. Facility typically has on-site passive and active
recreational facilities, housekeeping assistance, and medical personnel to
provide services, such as dietary and nutritional assistance and nursing care.
            3.   Nursing or rest home. A facility licensed to provide bed care,
inpatient services, nursing care, meals, and lodging, for five or more patients
with illness, disease, or physical or mental infirmity, on a 24 hour per day
basis. In the districts where nursing, rest homes require a special use permit,
the following applies:
               a.   The facility shall be limited to no more than 12 rooms
devoted to patients with overnight accommodations.
            4.   Hotel, inn, bed & breakfast. A facility offering temporary
lodging to the general public consisting of an unlimited number of sleeping
rooms. Secondary service uses may also be provided, such as restaurants and
meeting rooms. Rooms shall be accessed from the interior of the building. No
guest shall remain for more than 14 consecutive days, totaling no more than 60
days in any calendar year. In the district where hotels, inns, bed and
breakfasts require a special use permit, the following applies:
               a.   The facility shall be considered an inn or bed and
breakfast, limited to no more than 12 bedrooms devoted to rooms rented as
overnight accommodations.
               b.   The owner or resident manager of the inn shall maintain the
structure as their primary residence and shall reside on the premises at all
times that a guest is registered.
               c.   Employees are limited to no more than four, and shall be
employed as domestic help such as a cook, housekeeper, gardener.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4622.png]
 
Table (C)(2) 1. Permitted Use Table
               d.   Meals shall be served only to overnight guests.
               e.   No food preparation or storage facilities shall be provided
in guest rooms.
         (b)   Civic uses. A category of uses related to fulfilling the needs
of day-to-day community life including assembly, public services, educational
facilities, and hospitals.
            1.   Transportation terminal facility. A facility such as a bus
terminal, railroad passenger station, or other public transportation station,
with direct and convenient access to a major arterial street. In applicable DT
districts, these facilities require a special use permit.
            2.   Convention, meeting, or assembly hall. A large scale facility
designed to accommodate more than 100 persons, used for conventions,
conferences, seminars, displays, recreation activities, and entertainment
functions. Accessory functions include temporary outdoor displays, food and
beverage preparation and service for on-premise consumption. In applicable DT
districts, these facilities require a special use permit.
            3.   Hospital, care institutions. A licensed institution providing
medical care and health services to the community. These services may be
located in one building or clustered in several buildings and typically include
laboratories, in- and out-patient facilities, training facilities, medical
offices, staff residences, food service, and gift shop. In applicable DT
districts, these facilities require a special use permit.
            4.   Library, museum. A category of uses generally open to the
public housing educational, cultural, artistic, or historic information,
resources, and exhibits, offices, or other civic related uses. May also include
food service and a gift shop.
            5.   Recreation, community center. A facility to be used as a place
of meeting, recreation, and/or social activity and not operated for profit.
Alcoholic beverages and meals are not typically dispensed or consumed. In
applicable DT districts, these facilities require a special use permit.
            6.   Police station and fire station. A facility providing public
safety and emergency services; training facilities, locker rooms, and limited
overnight accommodations may also be included. In applicable DT districts,
these facilities require a special use permit. The facilities shall be housed
in a permitted building, but shall have the following additional allowances:
               a.   Garage doors are permitted on the front facade.
               b.   Exempt from maximum driveway widths.
            7.   Post office. A publicly accessed facility for the selling of
supplies and mail related products and the small scale collection and
distribution of mail and packages. Large-scale postal sorting and distribution
is not permitted.
            8.   Assembly, clubs, and lodges. A facility that has organized
services, meetings, or programs to benefit, educate, entertain, or promote
discourse amongst the residents of the community in a public or private
setting. Assembly includes such uses as a house of worship, private clubs, and
lodges.
            9.   School. An education facility with classrooms and offices,
that may also include associated indoor facilities such as ball courts,
gymnasium, theater, and food service.
         (c)   Retail uses. A category of uses involving the sale of goods or
merchandise to the general public for personal or household consumption.
            1.   Neighborhood retail. A use in this category occupies a space
of less than or equal to 8,000 square feet. Neighborhood retail includes such
uses as those listed in
Table (C)(3) 1. List of Typical Uses in Retail Category.
            2.   General retail. A use in this category includes all
neighborhood retail uses occupying a space of greater than 8,000 square feet as
well as such uses as those listed in
Table (C)(3) 1. List of Typical Uses in Retail Category.
            3.   Garden center, building supply. A use involving the sale of
goods, materials, or merchandise to businesses and/or the general public for
gardening and/or construction activities. This use typically includes outdoor
storage. In applicable DT districts, these facilities require a special use
permit if any business activities are conducted outside an enclosed building
and within 500 feet of a residential district.
            4.   Recreational cannabis dispensing organization. A licensed
recreational cannabis dispensing organization may produce products on the
licensed premises for sale at other locations permitted by the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), consistent with any terms and
conditions within the business’ applicable conditional use permit.
         (d)   Service. A category of uses that provide patrons services and
limited retail products related to those services. Visibility and accessibility
are important to these uses, as many patrons do not utilize scheduled
appointments.
            1.   Neighborhood service. A use in this category occupies a space
of less than or equal to 8,000 square feet. Neighborhood service includes such
uses as those listed in Table (C)(3) 2. List of Typical Uses in Service
Category. Neighborhood services may include outdoor café dining and beer
gardens, subject to the regulations provided in §
110.25 and §
110.31 of this code.
            2.   General service. A use in this category includes all
neighborhood service uses occupying a space of greater than 8,000 square feet
as well as such uses as those listed in Table (C)(3) 2. List of Typical Uses in
Service Category.
            3.   Large scale recreation places. Uses including billiard and
pool rooms, bowling alleys, dance halls, skating rinks, and establishments with
ten or more pinball and/or amusement machines.
            4.   Recreational cannabis infusing organization. A licensed
recreational cannabis infusing organization may produce products on the
licensed premises for sale at other locations permitted by the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), consistent with any terms and
conditions within the business’ applicable conditional use permit.
         (e)   Office uses. A category of uses for businesses that involve the
transaction of affairs of a profession, service, industry, or government.
Patrons of these businesses usually have set appointments or meeting times; the
businesses do not typically rely on walk-in customers. Office uses include
those listed in
Table (C)(3)3. List of Typical Uses in Office Category.
Table (C)(3) 1. List of Typical Uses in Retail Category.
Neighborhood Retail           General Retail
(less than 8,000 square feet)
Neighborhood Retail                       General Retail
(less than 8,000 square feet)
Antique Shop                              All Neighborhood Retail (over 8,000
                                          square feet)
Apparel Shop                              Appliance Store
Art, Craft, & Sculpture Store             Department Store
Art Gallery                               Furniture & Home Furnishings Store
Automotive Accessory Store (Retail Only)  General Merchandise Stores
Bait, Tackle, & Outdoor Sports            Medical Supply Store
Bakery                                    Variety Store
Book, Stationary, & Periodical Store       
Camera & Photo Equipment Store             
Candy & Ice Cream Store                    
China & Glassware Shop                     
Computer Software Sales                    
Consumer Electronics Store                 
Delicatessen                               
Drugs & Cosmetics Store                    
Fabric & Craft Store                       
Food Stores, including Groceries, Meat,
Fish, Packaged Food, Gourmet, & Specialty  
Items
Florist Shop                               
Garden Supply & Seed Store                 
Gift Shop                                  
Hardware Store                             
Hobby Shop                                 
Housewares & Kitchen Store                 
Jewelry Store                              
Luggage & Leather Goods                    
Marine Supply Store                        
Music & Musical Instrument Store           
Office Supply Store                        
Optical Goods                              
Package Liquor Store                       
Paint & Wallpaper Store                    
Party Supply Shop                          
Pet Store                                  
Recreational Cannabis Dispensing           
Organization
Shoe Store                                 
Sporting Goods & Bicycle Shop              
Stationary & Paper Store                   
Toy & Hobby Supply Store                   
Video Sales & Rental Store                 
Wine & Beer Store                          
 
Table (C)(3) 1. List of Typical Uses in Service Category.
Neighborhood Service          General Service
(less than 8,000 square feet)
Neighborhood Service                      General Service
(less than 8,000 square feet)
Banks & Financial Institutions            All Neighborhood Services (over 8,000
                                          square feet)
Barber Shop, Beauty Parlor                Automated Teller Machines (ATM)
Dry Cleaners (Retail Only)                Daycare Centers
Music, Dance Studio & Store               Nail Salon & Specialty Body Services
                                          (Spa)
Emergency Care Clinic                      
Framing Picture Shop                       
Health & Fitness Club                      
Laundry Pick-up Station                    
Locksmith                                  
Mailing Services                           
Microbrew Pubs                             
Music, Dance Studio                        
Pet Grooming                               
Photocopying & Retail Printing Services    
Photography Studio                         
Recreational Cannabis Dispensing           
Organization
Repair of Small Goods & Electronics        
Restaurants, including incidental sale of  
alcoholic beverages
Shoe Repair                                
Tailor & Seamstress                        
Tavern, Bar                                
Veterinarian (no outdoor training,         
boarding or kennels)
 
Table (C)(3) 2. List of Typical Uses in Office Category
Office
Office
Architecture/Engineering/Design        Motion Picture & Sound Recording Studio
Services
Broadcasting & Telecommunications      Physical Therapy Facility
Studio
Building Contractor (office only)      PR & Advertising
Business Consulting                    Property Development
Charitable Institutions                Real Estate
Computer Programming & Support         Research & Development
Detective Services                     Research Agency
General Professional Office            Surveying
Educational Services (tutor & testing)
Employment Agency
Financial & Insurance
Government Offices
Legal Services
Management Services
Medical Office
 
Table (C)(3) 3. List of Typical Uses in Cottage Industry Category.
Cottage Industry
Cottage Industry
Apparel & Finished Fabric Products      Pottery, Ceramics, & Related Products
Bakery & Confections                    Shoes & Boots
Beverages, including Beer, Wine, Coffee Signs & Advertising
Botanical Products                      Smithing
Brooms & Brushes                        Taxidermy
Canning & Preserving Food               Toys & Athletic Goods
Dairy Products                          Upholstery
Electrical Fixtures                     Woodworking
Engraving
Fabricated Metal Products
Film Making
Furniture & Fixtures
Glass
Jewelry, Watches, Clocks, & Silverware
Leather Products
Musical Instruments & Parts
 
         (f)   Cottage industry. A use involving small scale manufacturing,
production, assembly, and/or repair with little to no noxious by-products that
includes a showroom or small retail outlet. Cottage industry includes such uses
as those found in
Table (C)(3) 4. List of Typical Uses in Cottage Industry Category. The
following development standards apply:
            1.   This use may also include associated facilities such as
offices and small scale warehousing, but distribution is limited to vans and
small trucks. Distribution access shall be from the rear.
            2.   The maximum overall gross floor area is limited to 12,000
square feet, unless otherwise noted. The showroom or retail outlet shall be
located in the front storefront of the building and shall occupy a minimum of
25% of the gross floor area.
         (g)   Parking lot. A lot that does not contain a permitted building
and is solely used for the parking of vehicles. Parking lots are permitted as-
of-right on parcels with less than 30 feet of street frontage and are not
required to obtain a special use permit. In the districts where a parking lot
requires a special use permit and the parcel has more than 30 feet of street
frontage, the following additional requirements apply:
            1.   Corner lots. A corner lot shall not be used as a parking lot.
            2.   Adjacent parking lots. Two parking lots cannot be located
directly adjacent to one another.
            3.   Single family. Parking lot cannot be associated with a single
family use.
            4.   Distance. Parking lot must be within 1,300 feet of the
principal entrance to the associated use unless:
               a.   At least 75% of the spaces are dedicated for public use.
            5.   Pedestrian access. Must be connected to associated use by a
dedicated, public pedestrian pathway.
            6.   Commercial vehicles. Parking lots for commercial vehicles are
not permitted in DT districts.
         (h)   Parking structure. A parking structure on a lot that does not
contain a permitted building type and is solely used for the parking of
vehicles. In the districts where a parking lot requires a special use permit,
the following additional requirements apply:
            1.   Corner lots. A corner lot shall not be used for a parking
structure.
            2.   Adjacent parking lots. Two parking facilities (lots or
structures) cannot be located directly adjacent to one another.
            3.   Primary street. No facade of the parking structure shall be
located on a primary street. Refer to the zoning map for primary street
locations (Figure (A)(2) 1).
            4.   Distance. Parking structure must be within 1,300 feet of the
principal entrance to the associated use unless:
               a.   At least 75% of the spaces are dedicated for public use.
               b.   An approved parking agreement is in place.
            5.   Pedestrian access. Must be connected to associated use by a
dedicated, public pedestrian pathway.
            6.   Commercial vehicles. Parking structures for commercial
vehicles are not permitted in these districts.
         (i)   Open space. A use of land for active or passive, public or
private, outdoor space, including such uses as parks, plazas, greens,
playgrounds, or community gardens. Open space uses may also be utilized to host
temporary private or community events, such as a farmer's market or art fair.
In the districts where open space is permitted with development standards, the
following apply:
            1.   Parking. Parking lots are not permitted in open space in any
district unless otherwise specified.
            2.   Stormwater accommodations. Open space that incorporates
stormwater management on a site or district scale is encouraged.
               a.   Stormwater facilities are encouraged to be designed to
accommodate additional uses, such as an amphitheater or a sports field.
               b.   Stormwater facilities are encouraged to be designed not to
be fenced and shall not impede public use of the land they occupy.
            3.   This use may involve small scale food and beverage service, no
more than 200 square feet in space, located in a kiosk, with no service access.
            4.   Buildings located directly adjacent to an open space use shall
treat facades facing this use with street facade requirements.
         (j)   Accessory uses. A category of uses that are not permitted to
serve as the principal use on a zoning lot. These uses are incidental to and
customary in connection with the principal building or use and located on the
same lot with such principal building or use.
            1.   Home occupation; minor and major. Refer to §
154.314 Criteria for Minor Home Occupations and §
154.313 Criteria for Major Home Occupations. In applicable DT districts, major
home occupations are permitted as a special use according to the standards in §
154.313.
            2.   Alternative energy generation. Alternative energy generation
includes structures for solar, wind, and geothermal. The following development
standards apply:
               a.   Roof or building mounted solar panels are permitted with
the following requirements:
                  i.   Panels mounted at the same angle of the roof or flush on
the building facade are permitted on any roof or building face.
                  ii.   Panels projecting off the roof or building at a
different angle are limited to the rear and side facing roofs, unless solar
access is limited in these locations.
                  iii.   Panels shall not extend more than ten feet above the
surface of the roof to which they are attached. On pitched roofs, panels shall
not extend more than three feet.
               b.   Roof mounted small wind energy systems are permitted with
the following requirements:
                  i.   Maximum rated capacity of five kW is permitted per
turbine.
                  ii.   One turbine is permitted for each 750 square feet of
roof area.
                  iii.   Maximum height is 15 feet above the surface of the
roof.
               c.   Geothermal energy is permitted in any yard with the
following requirements:
                  i.   Any related above ground structure shall be located in a
side or rear yard with a maximum height of ten feet, subject to all
requirements of an accessory structure.
            3.   Communication equipment. In the districts where accessory
communication equipment is permitted with development standards, the following
applies:
               a.   The communication equipment is located on a lot with a
building and is a secondary use for the site.
               b.   Roof mounted location. Roof mounted equipment shall be
located per one of the following:
                  i.   Pitched roof. Locate the equipment on a rear facing
surface of the roof, if feasible for communication purposes.
                  ii.   Flat roof. Locate the equipment towards the rear
portion of the roof, where visibility is limited from the street to the maximum
extent possible.
               c.   Ground mounted location. Ground mounted equipment is
limited to the rear yard. Equipment may be located in the side yard if the
equipment is screened from the street with an opaque wall, of the same or
similar material of the street facade of the building.
               d.   Height. The height of the equipment is either a maximum of
12 feet or the maximum that is not visible from any street sidewalk, whichever
is greater.
            4.   Drive-in, drive-through facility. In the districts where
drive-in/drive-through structures are permitted with development standards, the
following applies. Refer to
Figure (C)(3) 5 for one illustration of the following requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4429.jpg]
Figure (C)(3) 5 Recommended drive-through Facility Layout
               a.   Structure/canopy. Drive-in/drive-through structures or
canopies shall be located on the rear facade of the building or in the rear of
the lot behind the building, where permitted by use. The structure shall not be
visible from any primary street.
               b.   Stacking lanes. Stacking lanes shall be located
perpendicular to the primary street or behind the building.
               c.   The canopy and structure shall be constructed of the same
materials utilized on the building.
            5.   Accessory parking lot. An uncovered paved surface used solely
for the parking of vehicles, intended for use by the occupants in an adjacent
building on the lot. In the districts where an accessory parking lot is
permitted with development standards, accessory parking lots are regulated by
the building type on the lot. Refer to division (B), Building Types, of this
section.
            6.   Accessory parking structure. A structure used solely for the
parking of vehicles, intended for use by the occupants in an adjacent building
on the lot. In the districts where accessory parking structures are permitted
with development standards, the following applies:
               a.   Accessory parking structures located within the building
with the principal use are regulated per building type. Refer to division (B),
Building Types, of this section.
               b.   Separate structures are permitted in the rear of lot,
behind the building, with no primary street frontage and the following
additional standards apply:
                  i.   The height of the separate structure must be lower than
the principal structure.
                  ii.   Any facade facing the street shall be of the same
materials of the principal building.
                  iii.   Sloped drives or ramps shall be not be located on the
street facade.
(Ord. 2007-O-22, passed 9-18-07; Am. Ord. 2014-O-9, passed 5-20-14; Am. Ord.
2017-O-26, passed 11-5-17; Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
STATUTORY BUSINESS DISTRICTS
§ 154.080 STATUTORY BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. This chapter is designed to allow the creation
of a business district overlay which will mesh with the zoning code and the
village’s Comprehensive Plan in order to establish one or more business
districts, which should in turn attract additional businesses to the village,
and to provide greater profitability and stability to existing businesses.
   (B)   Statutory authority. This chapter is established pursuant to the
authority given to the village to enact the same as set forth in ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 11-74.3-1 et seq. It is the intent of the corporate authorities to
exercise the powers so granted to them as broadly as possible so as to
effectuate the purposes of this chapter.
   (C)    Zoning code unaffected. Nothing herein shall be deemed to rezone any
property in the village, nor to negate, modify or establish any regulations in
any zoning district.
   (D)   Establishment. As soon as practicable after this section is adopted,
the Planning and Zoning Board shall meet and consider how many business
districts should be established and what parcels and areas of land are amenable
to inclusion within any business district. The PZB shall thereafter timely make
their recommendations to the Village Board for final action. From time to time
thereafter, the Village Board may seek additional recommendations on expansion,
revision, addition or elimination of any parts of any designated business
district from the PZB, which shall again make timely recommendations to the
Village Board for final action.
   (E)   Conformity with Comprehensive Plan. In making its recommendations, the
PZB, and in acting on those recommendations, the Village Board should provide
that any business district so created or modified is compatible with the then-
current Comprehensive Plan of the village.
   (F)   Powers of the village. Within any established business district, the
corporate authorities shall have the following powers, consistent with the
maximum extent of those powers which are granted to the village by ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 11-74.3-3 as it is in effect on the date of adoption of this section,
or as it may thereafter be amended:
      (1)   To approve all development and redevelopment proposals for a
business district;
      (2)   To exercise the use of eminent domain for the acquisition of real
and personal property for the purpose of a development or redevelopment
project;
      (3)   To acquire, manage, convey or otherwise dispose of real and
personal property according to the provisions of a development or redevelopment
plan;
      (4)   To apply for and accept capital grants and loans from the United
States and the State of Illinois, or any instrumentality of the United States
or the state, for business district development and redevelopment;
      (5)   To borrow funds as it may be deemed necessary for the purpose of
business district development and redevelopment, and in this connection issue
such obligation or revenue bonds as it shall be deemed necessary, subject to
applicable statutory limitations;
      (6)   To enter into contracts with any public or private agency or
person;
      (7)   To sell, lease, trade or improve real property in connection with
business district development and redevelopment plans;
      (8)   To employ all such persons as may be necessary for the planning,
administration and implementation of business district plans;
      (9)   To expend such public funds as may be necessary for the planning,
execution and implementation of the business district plans;
      (10)   To establish by ordinance or resolution procedures for the
planning, execution and implementation of business district plans.
      (11)   To create a Business District Development and Redevelopment
Commission to act as agent for the municipality for the purposes of business
district development and redevelopment.
      (12)   To impose a retailers' occupation tax and a service occupation tax
in the business district for the planning, execution, and implementation of
business district plans and to pay for business district project costs as set
forth in the business district plan approved by the municipality.
      (13)   To impose a hotel operators’ occupation tax in the business
district for the planning, execution, and implementation of business district
plans and to pay for the business district project costs as set forth in the
business district plan approved by the municipality.
      (14)   To issue obligations in one or more series bearing interest at
rates determined by the corporate authorities of the municipality by ordinance
and secured by the business district tax allocation fund set forth in ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-6 for the business district to provide for the payment of
business district project costs.
(Ord. 2002-O-46, passed 11-19-02)
B-1 RETAIL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.085 STANDARDS.
   All buildings and uses hereafter established or enlarged in the B-1 Retail
Business District shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   No part of the first or ground floor of any building shall be used for
residential purposes.
   (B)   All business establishments shall be retail or service establishments
dealing directly with consumers. All goods produced on the premises shall be
sold at retail on the premises where produced. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
duly licensed recreational cannabis craft growers and recreational cannabis
infuser organizations may produce products on the licensed premises for sale at
other locations permitted by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-
0027), consistent with any terms and conditions within the business’ applicable
conditional use permit.
   (C)   All business, servicing, storage, and display of goods (except for
off-street parking and loading) shall be conducted within completely enclosed
buildings. As a function of a permitted use, outdoor cafe dining and beer
gardens are permitted, subject to the regulations provided in §
110.25 and §
110.31 of this code.
   (D)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light upon any property located in a residential district or
upon any public street or park.
   (E)   All buildings, other structures, and uses shall be provided with a
public sewer system or an approved substitute system that complies with the
standards set by the state and the county. If an ordinance establishing more
restrictive standards for such substitute systems has been adopted by the
village, then any such substitute system shall comply with that ordinance.
   (F)   Only the following materials shall be allowed for exterior walls of
buildings: brick, split-faced block, architectural concrete, synthetic plaster,
stucco, wood or metal as a decorative element. The exterior walls of buildings
shall not be constructed of corrugated metal, however corrugated painted metal
may be used for awnings.
   (G)   All exterior mechanical equipment, transformers, satellite dishes and
antennae and outside storage areas shall be screened from public view using one
of the following methods:
      (1)   Screened by structure it serves. Mechanical equipment on or
adjacent to a structure may be screened by a parapet or wall of sufficient
height, built as an integral part of the structure.
      (2)   Designed as an integral part of the structure. If screening is
impractical, mechanical equipment may be designed so that it is balanced and
integrated with respect to the design of the
      (3)   Screen by another structure. Mechanical equipment installed on or
adjacent to a structure may be screened by a fence, wall or similar structure.
Such screening structure shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   The required screening shall be permanently attached to the
structure or the ground and shall conform to all applicable building code
requirements.
         (b)   The required screening shall be constructed with materials that
are architecturally compatible with the structure.
         (c)   Off-premise advertising signs and billboards shall not be
considered required screening.
      (4)   Screened by vegetation. Mechanical equipment installed adjacent to
the structure may be screened by hedges, bushes or similar vegetation.
   (H)   Dedicated pedestrian access shall be provided from the main entrance
of any private building to the abutting public sidewalk along Sheridan Road.
   (I)   General landscaping standards shall be followed for all new
developments and for alterations to existing facilities as outlined in
Chapter 159 of the city code.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2017-O-14, passed 8-15-17; Am. Ord. 2017-O-26,
passed 11-5-17; Am. Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154.086 PERMITTED USES.
   No building or use shall hereafter be established or enlarged within the B-
1 Retail Business District, except for the following purposes:
   (A)   Apartments, located on the second floor above a permitted business
use, provided that no new apartments may be constructed if the total number of
multi-family units, such as apartments, motels and efficiency apartment units
do not number more than 10% of the total number of single-family homes in the
village.
   (B)   Banks and savings and loan associations.
   (C)   Barber shops.
   (D)   Beauty parlors.
   (E)   Book and stationery stores excluding any book or stationery store in
violation of §§
133.20 and
133.21.
   (F)   Candy and ice-cream stores.
   (G)   Department stores.
   (H)   Drug stores.
   (I)   Electrical and household appliance stores, including radio and
television sales.
   (J)   Food stores, grocery stores, meat markets, fish markets, bakeries,
delicatessens, and food lockers.
   (K)   Furniture stores.
   (L)   Garden supply and seed stores.
   (M)   Gift shops excluding any gift shop in violation of §§
133.20 and
133.21.
   (N)   Hardware stores.
   (O)   Hobby shops.
   (P)   Laundry and dry-cleaning pick-up stations.
   (Q)   Offices, business and professional, including medical clinics.
   (R)   Package liquor stores.
   (S)   Paint and wallpaper stores.
   (T)   Restaurants, including the sale of alcoholic beverages if incidental
to the use of the premises as a restaurant.
   (U)   Photography studios.
   (V)   Service and fraternal clubs and lodges.
   (W) Shoe stores and shoe repair shops.
   (X)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed the duration of such construction.
   (Y)   Variety stores.
   (Z)   Wearing apparel shops.
(AA)   Accessory uses incidental to and on the same zoning lot as a principal
use.
(BB)   Any other retail business use that is not specifically permitted by this
section is permitted provided it complies with the standards set forth in §
154.085.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2001-O-22, passed 10-16-01)
§ 154.087 CONDITIONAL/SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses relating to recreational cannabis may be
permitted in specific situations in accordance with the procedures outlined in
the Cannabis Overlay Code, Chapter 154A of this title, as appropriate:
   (A)   Recreational cannabis dispensing organization.
   (B)   Recreational cannabis craft grower.
   (C)   Recreational cannabis infuser organization.
   (D)   Recreational cannabis processing organization.
   (E)   Recreational cannabis transporting organization.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154.088 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   There are no lot size requirements for the B-1 Retail Business District.
§ 154.089 BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
   (B)   No building or structure shall hereafter be established or enlarged
unless the following yards are allowed and maintained.
      (1)   A front yard of not less than 60 feet measured from the center line
of the street or road, provided that along Sheridan Road (Illinois Route 137),
a front yard of not less than 50 feet shall be allowed.
      (2)   A side yard of not less than ten feet on each side of the lot that
adjoins a residential district.
      (3)   A rear yard of not less than 25 feet, but if the rear lot line is
adjacent to a publicly dedicated alley, then the rear yard shall be not less
than ten feet.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2006-O-1, passed 1-3-06)
B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.095 STANDARDS.
   All buildings and uses hereafter established or enlarged in the B-2 General
Business District shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   No building shall be used for residential purposes except for the use
of the owner or operator of the premises and except that accommodations may be
offered to the transient public by motels, hotels, and inns.
   (B)   All outdoor storage shall be enclosed by a decorative solid fence not
less than six feet in height, except for the storage of passenger automobiles
in operating condition and off-street parking and loading.
   (C)   All business establishments shall be retail or service establishments
dealing directly with consumers. All goods produced on the premises shall be
sold on the premises where produced. As a function of a permitted use, outdoor
café dining and beer gardens are permitted, subject to the regulations provided
in §
110.25 and §
110.31 of this code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, duly licensed recreational
cannabis craft growers and recreational cannabis infuser organizations may
produce products on the licensed premises for sale at other locations permitted
by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), consistent with any
terms and conditions within the business’ applicable conditional use permit.
   (D)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light upon any property located in a residential district or
upon any public street or park.
   (E)   All buildings, other structures, and uses shall be provided with a
public sewer system or an approved substitute system that complies with the
standards set out in §
154.085(E).
   (F)   Only the following materials shall be allowed for exterior walls of
buildings: brick, split-faced block, architectural concrete, synthetic plaster,
stucco, wood or metal as a decorative element. The exterior walls of buildings
shall not be constructed of corrugated metal, however corrugated painted metal
may be used for awnings.
   (G)   All exterior mechanical equipment, transformers, satellite dishes and
antennae and outside storage areas shall be screened from public view using one
of the following methods:
      (1)   Screened by structure it serves. Mechanical equipment on or
adjacent to a structure may be screened by a parapet or wall of sufficient
height, built as an integral part of the structure.
      (2)   Designed as an integral part of the structure. If screening is
impractical, mechanical equipment may be designed so that it is balanced and
integrated with respect to the design of the
      (3)   Screen by another structure. Mechanical equipment installed on or
adjacent to a structure may be screened by a fence, wall or similar structure.
Such screening structure shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   The required screening shall be permanently attached to the
structure or the ground and shall conform to all applicable building code
requirements.
         (b)   The required screening shall be constructed with materials that
are architecturally compatible with the structure.
         (c)   Off-premise advertising signs and billboards shall not be
considered required screening.
      (4)   Screened by vegetation. Mechanical equipment installed adjacent to
the structure may be screened by hedges, bushes or similar vegetation.
   (H)   Dedicated pedestrian access shall be provided from the main entrance
of any private building to the abutting public sidewalk along Sheridan Road.
   (I)   General landscaping standards shall be followed for all new
developments and for alterations to existing facilities as outlined in
Chapter 159 of the city code.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2017-O-26, passed 11-5-17; Am. Ord. 2017-O-14,
passed 8-15-17; Am. Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154.096 PERMITTED USES.
   No building or use shall hereafter be established or enlarged within the B-
2 General Business District except for the following purposes:
   (A)   Agricultural implement sales and services.
   (B)   Automobile sales.
   (C)   Automobile service stations.
   (D)   Automobile storage and repairs.
   (E)   Building material offices and sales.
   (F)   Contractors' offices and shops, where fabricating and all storage of
material is within an enclosed building.
   (G)   Dry-cleaning plants.
   (H)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   (I)   Laundries.
   (J)   Motels, hotels, and inns.
   (K)   Restaurants and snack shops, including "drive-ins".
   (L)   Service and fraternal clubs and lodges.
   (M)   Taverns.
   (N)   Telephone exchanges.
   (O)   Trailer sales, rental, and repair, but not including the occupancy of
trailers.
   (P)   Accessory uses, incidental to and on the same lot as the principal
use.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.097 CONDITIONAL/SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses relating to recreational cannabis may be
permitted in specific situations in accordance with the procedures outlined in
the Cannabis Overlay Code,
Chapter 154A of this title, as appropriate:
   (A)   Recreational cannabis dispensing organization.
   (B)   Recreational cannabis craft grower.
   (C)   Recreational cannabis infuser organization.
   (D)   Recreational cannabis processing organization.
   (E)   Recreational cannabis transporting organization.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154.098 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be 24,000 square feet.
   (B)   There is no minimum lot width.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.099 BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
   (B)   The maximum lot coverage shall be 40%.
   (C)   The side and rear yard requirements in the B-2 General Business
District are the same as the side and rear yard requirements in the B-1 Retail
Business District, and in addition to those requirements, the following yard
requirements shall also be observed:
      (1)   A front yard of not less than 75 feet measured from the center line
of the street or road, provided that along Sheridan Road (Illinois Route 137),
a front yard of not less than 50 feet shall be allowed.
      (2)   Fuel pumps, air and water service, and permitted signs used in
connection with automobile service stations and garages shall be set back not
less than 12 feet from the front lot line and not less than 62 feet from the
center line of the street or road.
      (3)   Each establishment offering lodging facilities to the public shall
have a side yard of not less than ten feet and a rear yard of not less than ten
feet.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2006-O-1, passed 1-3-06)
B-3 SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT
§ 154.105 PURPOSE.
   It is expected that as the population of the village increases, one or more
local or regional shopping centers will be needed to serve the people of the
village and its retail trade area. The probability that additional commercial
development will be needed does not mean that appropriate locations for it can
be designated with precision at this time. However, the corporate authorities
of the village deem it in the public interest to declare, through the
provisions of this section, their intent to encourage such development and to
set forth the standards that shall be applicable thereto. These regulations are
designed, therefore, to set out in considerable detail the circumstances under
which property will be classified for shopping center use and the regulations
that will apply when property has been so rezoned. Such a procedure will
protect all property owners in the village because each proposed shopping
center will be reviewed in the light of the specific standards in §
154.106 to determine whether it will serve the convenience and welfare of the
surrounding residential area and the community generally without having any
detrimental or deleterious effect on the use, value, and enjoyment of other
adjacent or nearby residential property or on the safe and expeditious movement
of traffic in the public streets.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.106 STANDARDS.
   No shopping center or facility, or building or structure therein, shall be
constructed, and no use of land shall be established in a B-3 Shopping Center
District unless a plan of development showing the overall design and
arrangement of the tract or lot to be developed shall have been approved by the
Plan Commission and by the Board of Trustees. The plan of development shall
show the location and arrangement of all proposed buildings, parking areas,
walks, lighting, landscaping, and appurtenant facilities. A plan of development
for property located within the B-3 Shopping Center District shall be approved
if there is compliance with the restrictions contained in this subchapter and
with the following standards:
   (A)   No building shall be used for residential purposes.
   (B)   All ground floor business establishments shall be retail or service
establishments dealing directly with customers. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
duly licensed recreational cannabis craft growers and recreational cannabis
infuser organizations may produce products on the licensed premises for sale at
other locations permitted by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-
0027), consistent with any terms and conditions within the business’ applicable
conditional use permit.
   (C)   All operations, activities, and storage shall be conducted and
maintained wholly inside enclosed buildings, except for automobile parking
spaces and off-street loading areas, and except that merchandise may be kept in
any open area for immediate sale or temporary display. As a function of a
permitted use, outdoor cafe dining and beer gardens are permitted, subject to
the regulations provided in §
110.25 and §
110.31 of this code.
   (D)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be so constructed or shaded so as to
avoid casting direct light upon any residential district or into public
streets, parks, or schools.
   (E)   All areas not used for buildings, parking and loading areas,
pedestrian walks, or accessways shall be landscaped with grass, trees, or
shrubs.
   (F)   A bufferstrip not less than 25 feet wide shall be provided along any
residential boundary line abutting or adjoining any boundary line of the
Shopping Center District.
   (G)   All buildings, structures, and uses shall be provided with a public
sewer system or an approved substitute system that complies with the standards
set out in §
154.085(E).
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2017-O-26, passed 11-5-17; Am. Ord. 2019-O-18,
passed 10-15-19)
§ 154.107 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   No building or use shall hereafter be established or enlarged in the
B-3 Shopping Center District, except for the following purposes:
      (1)   Banks and savings and loan associations.
      (2)   Barber shops and beauty parlors.
      (3)   Book and stationery stores excluding any book or stationery store
in violation of §§
133.20  and
133.21 .
      (4)   Candy and ice-cream stores.
      (5)   Department stores.
      (6)   Drug stores.
      (7)   Electrical and household appliance stores, including radio and
television sales.
      (8)   Food stores, grocery stores, meat markets, fish markets, bakeries,
delicatessens, and food lockers.
      (9)   Furniture stores.
      (10)   Garden supply and seed stores.
      (11)   Gift shops excluding any gift shop in violation of §§
133.20 and
133.21.
      (12)   Hardware stores.
      (13)   Hobby shops.
      (14)   Laundry and dry-cleaning pick-up stations.
      (15)   Package liquor stores, provided no alcoholic beverages are sold or
dispensed for consumption on the premises.
      (16)   Paint and wallpaper stores.
      (17)   Photography studios.
      (18)   Restaurants, including the sale of alcoholic beverages if
incidental to the use of the premises as a restaurant.
      (19)   Shoe stores, including shoe repair shops.
      (20)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed the duration of such construction.
      (21)   Variety stores.
      (22)   Wearing apparel shops.
      (23)   Daycare centers.
      (24)   Professional offices.
      (25)   Training centers.
      (26)   Religious organizations.
   (B)   The following uses shall also be permitted in the B-3 Shopping Center
District when located above the first floor and above any of the business uses
permitted in this District by virtue of division (A) of this section.
      (1)   Business, music, dance, or commercial schools.
      (2)   Business, professional, or service offices.
      (3)   Employment agencies.
      (4)   Finance and small loan companies.
      (5)   Radio broadcasting stations.
      (6)   Lodge rooms, halls, and the like.
   (C)   Recreational cannabis. The following special uses relating to
recreational cannabis may be permitted in specific situations in accordance
with the procedures outlines in the Cannabis Overly Code,
Chapter 154A of this title, as appropriate:
      (1)   Recreational cannabis dispensing organization.
      (2)   Recreational cannabis craft grower.
      (3)   Recreational cannabis infuser organization.
      (4)   Recreational cannabis processing organization.
      (5)   Recreational cannabis transporting organization.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2009-O-1, passed 2-17-09; Am. Ord. 2019-O-18,
passed 10-15-19)
§ 154.108 [RESERVED].
§ 154.109 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be 160,000 square feet, provided, however,
that no lot, tract, or parcel shall be developed for any of the uses permitted
in the B-3 District unless it is of sufficient size to provide for the required
buffer, yard, and off-street parking and loading requirements.
   (B)   There is no minimum lot width.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.110 BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
   (B)   Maximum lot coverage shall be 40%.
   (C)   Yard requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   A front yard of not less than 85 feet from the center line of the
street or road, provided that along Sheridan Road (Illinois Route 137), a front
yard of not less than 50 feet shall be allowed.
      (2)   No side yard need be provided, unless a side yard abuts or fronts
upon a street, residential district, school, park, or other public area, in
which case a 35 foot side yard shall be provided.
      (3)   A rear yard of not less than 25 feet when the rear lot line abuts a
public alley; 35 feet if there is no alley abutting the rear lot line; and 35
feet if the rear lot line abuts a residential district or a street, school,
park, or other public area.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2006-O-1, passed 1-3-06)
§ 154.111 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL.
   The procedure for securing approval of a plan of development in a B-
3 Business District shall be the same as the procedure set out in §§
154.280 through
154.285 for securing the issuance of a special use permit.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
STORAGE DISTRICTS
§ 154.112 B-4 INDOOR STORAGE BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Standards. All buildings and uses hereafter established or enlarged in
the B-4 Business District shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   No part of any building shall be used for residential purposes.
      (2)   All business establishments shall be service establishments
primarily dealing in the indoor bulk storage of goods and materials. They shall
deal directly with consumers and be located on one floor. Wholesaling or the
rental of the individual storage compartments (for example, mini-warehouses)
shall not be permitted.
      (3)   All business and storage activities shall be conducted within
completely enclosed buildings.
      (4)   Exterior lighting shall be shielded wherever necessary to avoid
casting light directly upon any property located in a residential district, a
public street or park.
   (B)   Permitted uses. No building or use shall hereafter be established or
enlarged within the B-4 Business District except for the following purposes:
The principal uses shall be limited to the indoor bulk storage of large goods
and materials, including but not limited to boats, recreational vehicles, motor
vehicles, building materials and large mechanical equipment. Incidental sales
and service of the stored materials shall also be permitted but shall be
clearly secondary to the storage function.
   (C)    Special uses. In the B-4 Business District any of the special uses
enumerated in §
154.280 may be allowed.
   (D)   Lot size requirements.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be 40,000 square feet.
      (2)   The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
   (E)   Building bulk regulations.
      (1)   Maximum building height shall be 30 feet,; provided, however, that
any building may exceed 30 feet in height if the building is set back from each
lot line an additional three feet for each additional foot in height, no to
exceed a total of 40 feet in height.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage shall be 30%.
      (3)   Yard requirements shall be as follows:
         (a)   A front yard of not less than 50 feet.
         (b)   Side yards of not less than 20 feet each.
         (c)   A rear yard of not less than 20 feet.
         (d)   Any yard abutting a residential district shall not be less than
50 feet.
         (e)   Any yard abutting a street shall not be less than 50 feet.
      (4)   A landscape buffer shall be provided within any yard that fronts a
street, park or residential district. Such a buffer shall consist of not less
than three canopy trees of at least 2-½ inch caliper and three evergreen trees
at least five feet in height for each 100 linear feet of buffer strip, or such
other vegetation as the Planning and Zoning Board may find provides an
equivalent buffer. The buffer strip shall at all times be maintained in a clean
and litter-free condition.
(Ord. 1992-O-19, passed 8-1-92)
§ 154.113 B-5 GENERAL STORAGE DISTRICT.
   (A)    Standards. All buildings and uses hereafter established or enlarged
in the B-5 Business District shall conform to the following standards.
      (1)   No part of any building shall be used for residential purposes.
      (2)   All business establishments shall be service establishments
primarily dealing in the storage of goods and materials and dealing directly
with consumers. Wholesaling shall not be permitted.
      (3)   Exterior lighting shall be shielded wherever necessary to avoid
casting light directly upon any property located in a residential district, a
public street or park.
      (4)   The storage grounds shall at all times be kept in clean condition,
free of weeds, litter and debris. All grounds shall be kept in a dust-free
condition.
      (5)   All items stored outdoors shall be in good and operable condition.
Storage of times for the purposes of salvage or the sale of parts shall not be
allowed. Items which may become nonoperable shall be removed within 30 days
from notice by the village.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the B-
5 Business District:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B-4 Business District.
      (2)   The outdoor storage of large goods and materials, including but not
limited to boats, recreational vehicles, motor vehicles, building materials,
large mechanical equipment and construction equipment and materials.
      (3)   Occasional and incidental sales and service of the stored items
shall be permitted provided that such sales and service shall be clearly
secondary to the storage function.
      (4)   The rental of individual indoor storage compartments (for example,
mini-warehouses).
      (5)   Contractors' offices, provided that all storage of material must be
within an enclosed building.
   (C)   Special uses. In the B-5 Business District any of the special uses
enumerated in §
154.280  may be allowed.
   (D)   Lot size requirements.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be 80,000 square feet.
      (2)   The minimum lot width shall be 160 feet.
   (E)   Building and bulk regulations.
      (1)   Maximum building height shall be 30 feet.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage shall be 35%.
      (3)   All buildings shall be set back from the lot lines as follows:
         (a)   A front yard of not less than 50 feet.
         (b)   Side yards of not less than 20 feet each.
         (c)   A rear yard of not less than 20 feet.
         (d)   Any yard abutting a residential district shall not be less than
50 feet.
         (e)   Any yard abutting a street shall not be less than 50 feet.
      (4)   All outdoor storage areas and buildings containing individual
indoor storage compartments shall be completely enclosed by a fence not less
than eight feet in height and a buffer strip as follows:
         (a)   If the fence fronts a street, park, business district, such
fence shall be opaque.
         (b)   If the fence fronts a street, park or residential district, the
opaque fence shall be set back not less than ten feet from the lot line and a
buffer strip shall be provided and maintained between the fence and lot line.
Such buffer shall consist of not less than three canopy trees of at least 2-½
inch caliper and three evergreen trees at least five feet in height for each
100 linear feet of buffer strip, of such other vegetation as the Planning and
Zoning Board may find provides an equivalent buffer. The buffer strip shall at
all times be maintained in a clean and litter-free condition.
      (5)   No overnight storage of any kind shall be permitted except within
the enclosed, fenced outdoor storage area.
(Ord. 1992-O-19, passed 8-1-92; Am. Ord. 2023-O-3, passed 2-21-23)
I-1 LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.120 STANDARDS.
   All buildings and uses hereafter established or enlarged in the I-1 Limited
Industrial District shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   No building shall be used for residential purposes, except that a
watchman may reside on the premises.
   (B)   No retail sales or services shall be permitted except as incidental or
accessory to a permitted use. Notwithstanding the foregoing, retail sales of
cannabis and related products by a duly licensed cannabis dispensing
organization shall be permitted, consistent with any terms and conditions of
the business’ applicable conditional use permit.
   (C)   All operations, activities, and storage (but not including public
utility distribution centers or off- street parking or loading of motor
vehicles in operating condition) shall be conducted and maintained wholly
inside buildings, except that storage may be outside a building if no part of
the storage is less than 15 feet from any lot line or line of the tract on
which the storage is located and is screened from other property with a
decorative fence or planting.
   (D)   No noise from any operation conducted on the premises, other than that
emanating from vehicular traffic, either continuous or intermittent, shall be
detectable at any boundary line of the I-1 District.
   (E)   No toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke, gas, or odorous or particulate
matter detectable beyond the lot lines shall be emitted.
   (F)   No vibrations shall be detectable beyond the lot lines.
   (G)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light upon property located in any residential district or upon
any public street or park.
   (H)   No fuel or energy except electricity, oil, or gas shall be used.
   (I)   No raw materials shall be processed into any of the following basic
products; metals of any kind, glass, plastics, textiles, leather, or paper.
   (J)   All premises shall be furnished with all-weather hard surface walks,
and, except for parking areas, grounds shall be planted and landscaped.
   (K)   No building or structure shall hereafter be established or enlarged
unless community water and sewer facilities are provided for it.
   (L)   The storage or use of chemicals, either solid, liquid, or gaseous,
shall be permitted subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of materials or products
ranging from incombustible to moderate burning is permitted.
      (2)   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of materials or products
ranging from free to active burning is permitted, provided the said materials
or products are stored, utilized, or manufactured within a completely enclosed
building that has incombustible exterior walls and that is protected throughout
by an automatic fire extinguishing system.
      (3)   The manufacture of flammable liquids or materials which produce
explosive vapors or gases is prohibited.
      (4)   The storage, utilization, and manufacture of pyrophoric and
explosive powders or dusts, and materials which decompose by detonation is
prohibited.
      (5)   The storage of flammable liquids and materials which produce
flammable or explosive vapors and gases shall be permitted only in underground
tanks or vaults.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154.121 PERMITTED USES.
   No building or use shall hereafter be established or enlarged within the I-
1 Limited Industrial District except for the following purposes:
   (A)   Commercial radio and television transmitting antenna towers and other
electronic equipment requiring outdoor towers, including antenna towers for the
dispatching of private messages.
   (B)   Compounding, processing, and blending chemical products, but not
including any materials which decompose by detonation.
   (C)   Contractor or construction shops.
   (D)   Filtration plants.
   (E)   General and administrative offices.
   (F)   Machine shops and metal products manufacture and tool and die shops,
provided they do not include any drop forges or riveting machines.
   (G)   Printing and binding plants.
   (H)   Public utility distribution centers.
   (I)   Manufacturing and assembling (or any combination of such processes)
products from basic materials such as wood, cork, glass, leather, fur, plastic,
felt, and other textiles, but not including as a principal operation the
manufacture of any such basic materials.
   (J)   Research laboratories.
   (K)   Trade schools.
   (L)   Warehouses and storage facilities.
   (M)   Any other manufacturing establishment which can and shall be operated
in compliance with the standards set out in §
154.120.
   (N)   Accessory uses incidental to and on the same lot as the principal use.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.122 CONDITIONAL/SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses relating to recreational cannabis may be
permitted in specific situations in accordance with the procedures outlines in
the Cannabis Overlay Code,
Chapter 154A of this title, as appropriate:
   (A)   Recreational cannabis craft grower organization.
   (B)   Recreational cannabis dispensing organization.
   (C)   Recreational cannabis infuser organization.
   (D)   Recreational cannabis processing organization.
   (E)   Recreational cannabis transporting organization.
   (F)   Recreational cannabis cultivation organization.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154.123 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area shall be one acre.
   (B)   There is no minimum lot width.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.124 BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Maximum building height shall be 35 feet, provided, however, that any
building may exceed 35 feet in height if an additional 50 feet of front yard is
provided for each additional 11 feet, or portion thereof, by which the building
exceeds 35 feet.
   (B)   Maximum lot coverage shall be 35%.
   (C)   Yard requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   A front yard of not less than 125 feet.
      (2)   A side yard and a rear yard on each side of the lot equal to the
height of the highest point of the roof of the highest principal building or
structure.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
I-2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.130 STANDARDS.
   All buildings and uses hereafter established or enlarged in the I-
2 Industrial District shall conform to the standards set out in §
154.120, except that outdoor storage is less than 50 feet from any lot line
that is adjacent to a nonindustrial use and is enclosed with a cyclone fence or
other similar type of enclosure.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.131 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in an I-2 Industrial District:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the I-1 Limited Industrial District.
   (B)   Power or central heating plants.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.132 [RESERVED].
§ 154.133 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area shall be 3 acres.
   (B)   There is no minimum lot width.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.134 BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Maximum building height shall be 35 feet, provided, however, that any
building may exceed 35 feet in height if an additional 50 feet of front yard is
provided for each additional 11 feet, or portion thereof, by which the building
exceeds 35 feet.
   (B)   Maximum lot coverage shall be 50%.
   (C)   Yard requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   A front yard of not less than 60 feet.
      (2)   A side yard and a rear yard on each side of the lot equal to the
height of the highest point of the roof of the highest principal building or
structure.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
§ 154.140 OPEN SPACE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The Open Space District (“OS”) is created for
the purpose of preserving areas for passive uses which conserve natural
resources such as floodplain, wetland and wildlife habitat areas and to provide
for active recreational uses of upland areas for the benefit of village
residents which are consistent with the overall goal of utilizing natural areas
in a manner that will best preserve them for future generations.
   (B)   Allowable uses. The following uses are specifically allowed as of
right in all OS designated areas:
      (1)   Open grasslands, nature preserve, wildlife habitat and public open
lands;
      (2)   Marshes, fens, swamps and wetlands of all kinds;
      (3)   Public and private parks and conservation areas, including trails
for pedestrians, bicycles, horses and other non-motorized vehicles;
      (4)   Public park buildings and structures, including without limitation
gyms, maintenance facilities, pavilions, restaurants, vending areas, shelters,
ball fields, dugouts, grandstands, tennis courts, skating parks, and the like;
      (5)   State and county-owned parkland and conservation areas, including
those areas formerly designated as being in the Lake Plain District (for
example, those parcels owned by the State of Illinois or Lake County Forest
Preserve and known as the North Point Marina, Illinois Beach State Park and the
Spring Bluff Forest Preserve); and
      (6)   Designated detention and retention areas created by plat of
subdivision, ordinance or other recorded instrument.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted by the village,
following an application to the Planning and Zoning Board and affirmative
action by the Village Board:
      (1)   Arboretum or botanical garden;
      (2)   Boat launching ramp, dock or pier;
      (3)   Croplands on parcels of not less than 20 acres;
      (4)   Golf courses on parcels of not less than 60 acres; and
      (5)   Stables for horses on parcels of not less than five acres, provided
that the same connect to equestrian trails.
   (D)   Maintenance regulations.
      (1)   Unless specifically required by a plat, ordinance or recorded
covenant that has been approved for recording by the Village Board, the owners
of all properties in a subdivision wherein an OS designated retention or
detention area has been platted and developed shall bear all liability, jointly
and severally, for the maintenance, upkeep and condition of the parcel; and
they shall neither permit nor suffer any use of any area in a manner
inconsistent with or which interferes with its intended use as a stormwater
buffer.
      (2)   The owners of all properties described in division (D)(1) shall,
upon written request of the village, perform any and all necessary maintenance
to any area, including the removal of brush, bushes or trees, the re-grading of
eroded soils, the dredging and removal of silt and all other things reasonably
necessary to the continued function of the area for its intended use as a
stormwater buffer.
      (3)   If the owners of all properties described in division (D)(1) fail
to honor the request of the village made pursuant to division (D)(2) within a
reasonable time of the request, the village shall have the right, but not the
obligation, to enter upon the OS designated property and perform the required
maintenance, and the village may issue statements to the said owners, on a pro-
rata basis, requiring them to pay their proportionate share of the expenses,
calculated at 150% of the ascertainable actual cost of the maintenance in order
to cover the expense of enforcement and administration, and if any of the
owners should fail to pay the statement within 30 days of issuance, these
charges shall become a lien upon their individual lots which the village may
memorialize by the recording of a formal notice of lien with the Lake County
Recorder of Deeds.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2003-O-25, passed 8-19-03)
UNIFIED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS
§ 154.150 STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may approve the construction of a unified
residential development plan consisting of single-family, duplex, or multiple-
family dwellings, or any combination thereof, subject to the conditions in
division (B).
   (B)   No unified residential development shall be approved unless the Board
of Trustees shall determine:
      (1)   That the proposed site will be provided with adequate drainage
facilities for surface and storm waters.
      (2)   That the proposed site is accessible from public roads that are
adequate to carry the traffic that will be imposed upon them by the proposed
developments.
      (3)   That the proposed development will not impose an undue burden on
public services and facilities such as fire and police protection.
      (4)   That the streets and driveways on the site of the proposed
development will be adequate to serve the residents of the development and will
meet the minimum standards of all applicable ordinances of the village.
      (5)   That the character of the proposed development will not adversely
affect real estate values in, or the character of, the neighborhood adjacent to
the proposed development.
      (6)   That adequate provision has been made for the landscaping, care,
and maintenance of any common grounds, parks, open spaces, recreational areas,
community buildings, or facilities included in the proposed development.
      (7)   That adequate safeguards have been provided to prevent the
subsequent development of, and construction of, buildings and structures upon
any common grounds, parks, open spaces, or recreational areas included in the
proposed development.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.151 RESTRICTIONS.
   No unified residential development plan shall be approved unless the
proposed development complies with the following conditions and restrictions:
   (A)   Community water and sewer facilities shall be provided for all
dwelling units.
   (B)   The proposed unified residential development shall contain at least
ten acres. Such area may include one-half of the right-of-way of any abutting
street or highway.
   (C)   A proposed unified residential development in an R-2 District shall
not contain more than four dwelling units per acre.
   (D)   A proposed unified residential development in an R-3 District shall
not contain more than seven dwelling units per acre.
   (E)   As long as the overall density restrictions contained in divisions (C)
and (D), whichever is applicable, are maintained, the applicable minimum lot
areas in the zoning district in which the proposed unified residential
development will be located may be reduced as follows:
      (1)   One-bedroom dwelling units shall have not less than 1,700 square
feet of lot area per dwelling unit.
      (2)   Two-bedroom dwelling units shall have not less than 2,200 square
feet of lot area per dwelling unit.
      (3)   Three-bedroom dwelling units shall have not less than 2,700 square
feet of lot area per dwelling unit.
      (4)   Dwelling units containing four or more bedrooms shall have not less
than 3,200 square feet of lot area per dwelling unit. When minimum lot sizes
are reduced pursuant to this division, then the remaining area of the proposed
development shall be devoted to common grounds, open spaces, recreational
areas, and community buildings which are either open to the public generally or
are reserved for use by occupants of the proposed development.
   (F)   No more than two floors of any building shall be used for or devoted
to residential occupancy.
   (G)   No basement shall be used for residential occupancy or living space.
   (H)   The principal buildings in any proposed unified residential
development, together with their accessory buildings, shall not occupy more
than 30% of the area of the proposed development, exclusive of highways,
streets, and alleys.
   (I)   No building or structure shall be constructed or established in a
proposed unified residential development unless the following setbacks are
maintained:
      (1)   The distance at the closest point between any building or structure
in the proposed development and the boundary of the tract devoted to the
development shall be at least two times the perpendicular distance from the
lowest first floor window sill to the highest point in the roof.
      (2)   The distance at the closest point between any two buildings or
structures in a proposed development, or between different wings or units of
the same building or structure, shall be equal to two times the perpendicular
distance from the lowest first floor window sill to the highest point in the
roof. Different wings or units of the same building or structure may, however,
be joined at any angle that is not less than 90 degrees.
   (J)   No building or structure that abuts upon a street shall be located
closer to such street than would otherwise be permitted in the zoning district
in which the proposed development will be located.
   (K)   The proposed unified residential development shall otherwise comply
with the regulations respecting permitted uses, special uses, maximum building
height, signs, and off-street parking and loading that are applicable in the
zoning district in which the proposed development will be located.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.152 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL.
   The procedure for securing approval of a unified residential development
plan shall be the same as the procedure set out in §§
154.280 through
154.285 for securing the issuance of a special use permit.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.153 LIMITATION ON SUBSEQUENT USE OF OPEN SPACE.
   Once a unified residential development plan has been approved, the common
grounds, parks, open spaces, and recreational areas included in the said plan
shall not be used for the construction of any building or structure, nor shall
such common grounds, parks, open spaces, or recreational areas be thereafter
computed as a part of the required minimum lot area or required yard of any
other building or structure.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
B1-M MARINE BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 154.154 STANDARDS.
   All buildings and uses hereafter established or enlarged in the B1-M Marine
Business District shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   No part of any building will be used for residential purposes.
   (B)   All business establishments shall be retail or service establishments
dealing directly with consumers. All goods produced on the premises shall be
sold at retail on the premises where produced.
   (C)   All business, serving storage, and display of goods shall be conducted
within completely enclosed buildings or secured storage area.
   (D)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light upon any property located in a residential district or
upon any public street or park.
   (E)   All outdoor storage shall be enclosed by a decorative solid opaque
fence not less than six feet in height.
   (F)   All areas not used for buildings, parking, outdoor storage, and
loading areas, pedestrian walks, or accessways shall be landscaped with grass,
trees, or shrubs.
   (G)   All items stored outdoors shall be in good and operable condition and
must have a current registration. Storage of items for the purposes of salvage
or the sale of parts shall be not allowed. Items which may become nonoperable
shall be removed within 30 days from notice by the village.
   (H)   The storage grounds shall at all times be kept in clean condition,
free of weeds, litter and debris. All grounds shall be kept in a dust-free
condition.
   (I)   No noise from any operation conducted on the premises, other than that
emanating from vehicular traffic, either continuous or intermittent, shall be
detectable at any boundary line of the B1-M District, after 10:00 p.m. or
before 6:00 a.m.
   (J)   No detectable toxic matter, noxious matter, smoke, gas, or odorous or
particulate matter shall be emitted beyond the lot lines.
   (K)   The storage of flammable liquids and materials which produce flammable
or explosive vapors and gases shall be permitted only in containers or storage
as approved by BOCO Fire Prevention, (NFPA) National Fire Protection
Association and the Village of Winthrop Harbor.
(Ord. 1997-O-24, passed 11-4-97)
§ 154.155 PERMITTED USES.
   No building or use shall hereafter be established or enlarged within the B1-
M Marine Business District except for the following purposes:
   (A)   Boat sales and service;
   (B)   Indoor/outdoor storage;
      (1)   Operable sail and power boats, marine trailers, and any other water
craft vessels.
   (C)   Marine related retail;
      (1)   Marine brokerage;
      (2)   Canvas work;
      (3)   Marine supplies and related accessories;
   (D)   Marine related office space.
(Ord. 1997-O-24, passed 11-4-97)
§ 154.156 SPECIAL USES.
   In the B1-M Marine Business District any of the special uses enumerated in §
154.280 may be allowed. Excluding indoor archery or gun-shooting ranges.
(Ord. 1997-O-24, passed 11-4-97)
§ 154.157 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be one acre.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
(Ord. 1997-O-24, passed 11-4-97)
§ 154.158 BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
   (B)   Maximum lot coverage shall be 40%.
   (C)   Yard requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   A front yard of not less than 50 feet.
      (2)   Side yards of not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   A rear yard of not less than 20 feet.
   (D)   A landscape buffer shall be provided within any yard that fronts a
street, park or residential district. Such a buffer shall consist of not less
than three canopy trees of at least 2½ inch caliper and three evergreen trees
at least five feet in height for each 100 linear feet of buffer strip, or such
other vegetation as the Planning and Zoning Board may find provides an
equivalent buffer. The buffer strip shall at all times be maintained in a clean
and litter-free condition.
(Ord. 1997-O-24, passed 11-4-97)
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
§ 154.160 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The following signs shall be permitted in any residential district:
   (A)   One sign of not more than one square foot of gross surface area giving
the name of the occupant and the address of the premises.
   (B)   One bulletin board of not more than 12 square feet of gross surface
area for charitable, educational, or religious institutions.
   (C)   One sign of not more than six square feet of gross surface area
located on private property and pertaining to the sale or lease of the property
on which the sign is displayed, provided that if said property faces on more
than one street or highway, one such sign shall be allowed on each street or
highway frontage. Each such sign shall be located at least ten feet from the
lot line of the adjoining premises and at least 25 feet from any lot line that
abuts a street or highway.
   (D)   Temporary signs may be displayed as provided for in §
154.167 of this chapter.
   (E)   Any residence approved for a "Major Home Occupation" shall be allowed
one wall sign, not to exceed one square foot, indicating the address and the
occupant's name and occupation.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2001-O-14, passed 5-15-01)
§ 154.161 SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS IN B-1 DISTRICT.
   In the B-1 District both illuminated and non-illuminated signs shall be
permitted subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   The gross surface area in square feet of all signs on any lot or
premises shall not exceed two times the lineal number of feet in the frontage
of the lot or premises. The gross surface area of all illuminated signs on any
lot or premises shall not exceed one times the lineal feet of frontage of the
lot or premises. In no event shall any non-illuminated sign exceed 150 square
feet in gross surface area nor shall any illuminated sign exceed 75 square feet
in gross surface area. Each side of the building which abuts upon more than one
street shall be considered as a separate frontage.
   (B)   No temporary lines or extension cords shall be permitted to illuminate
signs. The power feed to illuminate signs shall be of a permanent installation
and be approved by the Electrical Inspector. The source of such illumination
shall be arranged, oriented, or shielded in a manner which will not endanger
the safety of pedestrian or vehicular traffic. Such lighting shall be constant
and not flashing, intermittent, or animated in any way.
   (C)   No sign shall be permitted unless it directs attention to a business
or profession conducted upon, or product sold, or a service offered on the
premises on which the sign is located.
   (D)   No sign that is wholly or partially independent of a building for
support shall be higher than 20 feet above the ground level and such sign shall
be set back at least 20 feet from each street on which it fronts. The bottom
edge of any sign that is located within 50 feet of the intersection of any two
or more streets or highways or within 20 feet of a driveway entrance into any
street or highway shall be at least eight feet above ground level.
   (E)   Temporary signs may be displayed as provided for in §
154.167 of this chapter.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2001-O-14, passed 5-15-01)
§ 154.162 SIGNS IN BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   Illuminated and non-illuminated signs are permitted in the B-2, B-3, B-4 and
B-5 Business Districts and in the I-1 and I-2 Industrial Districts subject to
the following conditions:
   (A)   The gross area in square feet of all signs on any lot or premises
shall not exceed six times the lineal feet of frontage of such lot or premises
and no single sign shall exceed a gross surface area of 200 square feet.
However, the gross surface area of all illuminated signs on any lot or premises
shall not exceed three times the lineal feet of frontage of such lot or
premises, and no single illuminated sign shall exceed a gross surface area of
100 square feet. Each side of a building which abuts upon more than one street
shall be considered as separate frontage.
   (B)   No temporary lines or extension cords shall be permitted to illuminate
signs. The power feed to illuminate signs shall be of a permanent installation
and be approved by the Electrical Inspector. Such lighting shall be constant
and not flashing or animated in any way. Illuminating lighting shall be
arranged, oriented, or shielded in such a manner that direct radiation or glare
from such source does not penetrate adjacent or nearby residential uses zoning
district.
   (C)   No sign that is wholly or partially independent of a building for
support shall be higher than 20 feet above the ground level and such sign shall
be set back at least 20 feet from each street on which it fronts. The bottom
edge of any such sign that is located within 50 feet of the intersection of any
two or more streets or highways or within 20 feet of a driveway entrance into
any street or highway shall be at least eight feet above ground level.
   (D)   For integrated shopping centers in single ownership or under unified
control, one additional sign may be erected not exceeding 120 square feet in
area and containing only the name and location of such center of individual use
and the name and type of business from each occupant of the center. Such sign
shall be set back at least 25 feet from each street on which it fronts and the
bottom edge of such sign shall be at least eight feet above the level of the
ground and the overall height shall not exceed 20 feet above ground level.
   (E)   Temporary signs may be displayed as provided for in §
154.167 of this chapter.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1992-O-19, passed 8-1-92; Am. Ord. 2001-O-14,
passed 5-15-01)
§ 154.163 OBSOLETE SIGNS.
   It is unlawful to maintain for more than 30 days any sign which has become
obsolete because of discontinuance of the business, service, or activity which
it advertises, removal from the location to which it directs, or for any other
reason. After 30 days the obsolete sign shall be removed by village employees
and cost of the removal shall be paid by the owner of the property where the
obsolete sign was located. If, after 90 calendar days, the costs of the removal
of the obsolete sign is not paid for, the village shall place a lien against
the property where the obsolete sign was located. The 90 calendar days shall
start the day the property owner is notified by certified or registered mail.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.164 PERMIT FEES.
   All cost for permits shall be covered under the ordinance established to
provide uniform building permit fees and building construction valuations
within the village.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.165 MOBILE SIGNS.
   (A)   Mobile signs shall be permanently attached to a frame or chassis and
designed to be moved from place to place by means of being towed on a public
road.
   (B)   A mobile sign shall not be located or utilized for display purposes on
any site or premises unless a sign permit has been issued by the Building
Inspector. The Building Inspector may issue one permit per business. Any
request for additional permits must be approved by the President and Board of
Trustees.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall collect a fee of $30 for each mobile sign
permit. Said permit shall be valid for a maximum period of 30 days.
   (D)   Mobile signs shall be insured by owner or renter covering bodily
injury and accidental death liability for each accident in the amount of
$100,000 for each person and $300,000 for each accident, and property damage
liability for $100,000 for each occurrence and $300,000 aggregate.
   (E)   If the Building Inspector shall find any mobile sign regulated by this
code is unsafe or insecure, is a menace to the public, has been placed on
public property to a greater extent than is permitted by this code, or
otherwise in violation with this code, the Building Inspector shall give
written notice to the holder of the permit. If the permittee fails to remove or
alter the sign to comply with the standards set forth within 10 days after the
notice, the sign shall be removed or altered to comply with this code by the
Inspector at the expense of the permittee.
   (F)   Signs shall be designed according to generally accepted good
engineering practice to withstand wind pressure of at least 24 pounds per
square foot. Mobile signs shall be designed to rest on structural members other
than wheels, except when being moved. Jacks and tongues shall be removed when
the sign is being used for display.
   (G)   Mobile signs which include electrical lighting or equipment shall be
constructed of components approved and labeled by the Underwriter Laboratories.
Electrical connections to mobile signs shall be made through SO or STO flexible
12-3 cords not more than 75 feet in length and supplied by an approved grounded
electrical outlet with a capacity of not less than 15 amperes. Mobile signs
shall not be placed within five feet of any pole, guy wire, or line of any
electric, telephone, or other utility. Every mobile sign unit shall have ground
fault protection at its source of electrical power.
   (H)   Mobile signs shall not be placed on the median strip of a boulevard.
Mobile signs shall be allowed to be placed within the building setback line
solely on the temporary basis for which they are constructed. Mobile signs
shall not be placed within an area of a triangle formed from the two points ten
feet from the intersection of the right-of-way of two streets or highways. A
mobile sign shall not be placed closer than 50 feet from another mobile sign.
Any advertising sign located on the highways, rights-of-way, streets, or public
buildings may, after due notice to the owner thereof to remove it, be removed
by the village at the expense of the owner.
   (I)   No mobile sign shall be placed at any location in such manner as to
obstruct free and clear vision at the intersection of any street or highway. No
mobile sign shall use the words "Stop," "Danger," or any other words or phrases
which could mislead or confuse traffic. No mobile sign shall utilize red lamps
in illumination. No mobile sign shall display any obscene, indecent, or immoral
matter. The area immediately surrounding a mobile sign shall be kept clear of
all unsightly debris and vegetation. Illuminating lighting shall be arranged,
oriented, or shielded in such a manner that direct radiation or glare from such
source does not penetrate adjacent or nearby residential uses or zoning
districts.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.166 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
    The following signs may not be used or erected in the village:
   (A)   Any sign or similar object, color, light, or shape which resembles an
official traffic control device or sign.
   (B)   Any obscene language or graphic material or other representation of an
obscenity or obscene act.
   (C)   Any sign, signal, or similar device which emits music, speech,
simulated speech, or any other sound on a regular or intermittent basis.
   (D)   Any sign affixed to a tree.
   (E)   Any sign affixed to a utility pole, light pole, traffic device, or
similar object.
   (F)   Any sign or similar device containing a strobe light or any other high
intensity light that is emitted on a periodic or irregular basis, or any such
light used as an "eye catcher."
   (G)   Any sign attached or painted onto an inoperable and unlicensed motor
vehicle in view of the public right-of-way or any sign attached to a licensed
vehicle which is maintained in full view of the right- of-way or on the
property to which the sign refers for a period of more than seven consecutive
days.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.167 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs may be displayed without a permit, provided that any and all
such signs must comply with the following rules and regulations:
   (A)   A TEMPORARY SIGN shall mean the following: Any sign, banner or other
advertising device or display constructed of cloth, canvas, cardboard,
wallboard, or other light temporary materials, with or without a structural
frame, intended for a temporary period of display, including for illustrative
purposes, but not limitation, decorative displays for holidays, garage sales,
private parties, candidacy for public or private office, local refenda or
public demonstrations.
   (B)   Temporary signs shall not be placed in any of the following locations:
      (1)   On any public property;
      (2)   On any public right-of-way;
      (3)   On any utility pole or tree;
      (4)   On any street or road sign or sign pole;
      (5)   On any other person’s property without express verbal permission;
      (6)   In any location that blocks or tends to block sight lines for
vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Temporary signs may be displayed during a period not to exceed 30 days
prior to the scheduled event or season which they advertise or are related to,
and shall be removed within four days after that event is over or that season
has ended.
   (D)   No temporary sign shall exceed 21 square feet, nor be more than five
feet in height or eight feet in length.
   (E)   A person or corporation wishing to erect, install or maintain a
temporary sign for a period of time longer than that permitted in division (C)
of this section may petition the Village Board for such relief, and the Village
Board may extend the time periods in its discretion.
   (F)   Any person or corporation who places or allows a temporary sign to
remain upon his, her or its property in violation of division (B), (C) or (D)
of this section shall be guilty of a petty offense, and shall be fined $50 for
each such sign.
   (G)   Any person or corporation who shall be advertising an event, sale,
party, holiday, election, demonstration or other, similar thing upon property
belonging to any other person or corporation, and who shall place or allow a
temporary sign to remain on that property in violation of division (B), (C) or
(D) of this section shall be guilty of a petty offense, and shall be fined $50
for each such sign.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2001-O-14, passed 5-15-01; Am. Ord. 2002-O-16,
passed 4-16-02)
§ 154.168 WARNING SIGNS.
   Any warning sign may be installed in an area of danger to protect the public
from said danger. However, the Police, Fire, and Public Works Departments shall
be notified immediately of said danger.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.169 VARIATIONS AND GRANDFATHER PROVISION.
   (A)   All signs located on Sheridan Road (Illinois Route 173) that were
legal before the state made Sheridan Road a four-lane highway shall be exempt
from the 20-foot setback in §§
154.161(D) and 154.162(D), for a period of five years after passage of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any request for a variation shall be through § 154.248(A)(8).
   (C)   Any request for a variance shall be at a fee of $150.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.170 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to any signs established and
maintained in the exercise of governmental functions by the United States
government, the state, the county, or any other governmental body or unit, or
by any agency of such government or governmental body or agent.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.171 REMOVAL.
   Any sign mentioned in §§
154.160, 154.166, 154.167, and 154.168 that is deemed a hazard or obstructs
traffic may be removed by the Building Inspector or any police officer of the
village. Any sign mentioned in §§
154.160, 154.166, 154.167, and 154.168 may not be placed in any public right-
of-way.
(Ord. 1989-O-36, passed 10-1-89)
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 154.175 UTILIZATION.
   Required accessory off-street parking facilities provided for the uses
hereinafter listed shall be solely for the parking of motor vehicles of
patrons, occupants, or employees of such uses.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.176 AREA.
   A required off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet in width and
at least 18 feet in length, exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps,
columns, or office or work areas. Such space shall have a vertical clearance of
at least seven feet.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2001-O-18, passed 7-17-01)
§ 154.177 ACCESS.
   Each required off-street parking space shall open directly upon an aisle or
driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and efficient means of
vehicular access to such parking space.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.178 OPEN AND ENCLOSED PARKING.
   Off-street parking spaces open to the sky may be located in any yard except
a required front yard in a residence district. Enclosed buildings and carports
containing off-street parking shall be subject to the yard requirements
applicable in the district in which located.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.179 DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Off-street parking spaces may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
building.
   (B)   All open off-street parking areas except required parking spaces
accessory to a single-family dwelling shall be graded and paved or otherwise
improved with an all-weather, dustless material.
   (C)   All open off-street parking areas containing more than six parking
spaces shall be effectively screened on each side that adjoins any property
situated in a residential district by a wall, fence, or densely planted compact
hedge not less than five feet nor more than eight feet in height.
   (D)   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas shall be
directed away from residential properties in such a way as not to interfere
with the residential use.
   (E)   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall be permitted
in association with any off-street parking facilities.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.180 COMPUTATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   When determination of the number of off-street parking spaces required by
this chapter results in a requirement of a fractional space, the fraction of
one-half or less may be disregarded and a fraction in excess of one-half shall
be counted as one parking space.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.181 COLLECTIVE PROVISIONS.
   Off-street parking facilities for separate uses may be provided collectively
if the total number of spaces so furnished is not less than the sum of the
separate requirements for each such use, and provided that all regulations
covering the location of accessory parking spaces in relation to the use served
are adhered to.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.182 LOCATION.
   All parking spaces required to serve buildings or uses shall be located on
the same lot or parcel of land as the building or use served. Should there be
insufficient or inadequate parking available on that lot or parcel of land,
additional remote parking shall be located within 300 feet of a main entrance
to the use served, provided, however, that no such remote parking for a
commercial or industrial use shall be located in a residential district.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1999-O-22, passed 10-19-99)
§ 154.183 EMPLOYEE PARKING.
   Parking spaces required on an employee basis shall be based on the maximum
number of employees on duty or residing, or both, on the premises at any one
time.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.184 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF SPACES.
   The total number of accessory parking spaces provided for a single-family, a
duplex, or a multiple- family dwelling shall not exceed that required by this
chapter for such use by more than 50% or four spaces, whichever is greater.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.185 REQUIRED SPACES.
   Adequate off-street parking spaces shall be provided to accommodate all the
other vehicles of residents or employees, visitors and customers, and the
vehicles used in the conduct of any business or enterprise, but in no case
shall the number of off-street parking spaces provided be less than the minimum
prescribed in the following schedule:
   (A)   Dwelling and lodging uses.
      (1)   Hotels and motels: At least two parking spaces, plus one parking
space for each rental unit.
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings: At least one parking space for each
dwelling unit.
      (3)   Single-family dwellings: At least one parking space for each
dwelling unit.
      (4)   Duplex dwelling: At least one parking space for each dwelling unit.
   (B)   Business, commercial, and manufacturing uses.
      (1)   All business and commercial establishments, except those specified
hereafter: At least one parking space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   Automobile service stations: At least four parking spaces plus one
for each employee.
      (3)   Medical and dental clinics: At least three parking spaces for each
examination or treatment room, plus one for each doctor and employee of the
building.
      (4)   Office, professional, and public administration or service
buildings: At least one parking space for each two persons employed based upon
the designed maximum employee capacity of the building.
      (5)   Cartage, express, parcel delivery, and freight terminal
establishments: At least one parking space for each two employees as related to
the working period when the maximum number of persons are employed on the
premises, and one parking space for each vehicle maintained on the premises.
      (6)   Establishments handling the sale and consumption on the premises of
food, beverages, and refreshments. At least one parking space for each three
persons based upon the maximum number of persons that can be accommodated at
the same time in accordance with the designed capacity.
      (7)   Manufacture, production, processing, assembly, disassembly,
cleaning, servicing, testing, or repairing of goods, materials, or products: At
least one parking space for each three employees as related to the working
period when the maximum number of persons are employed on the premises.
      (8)   Bowling alleys: At least seven parking spaces for each alley, plus
such additional space as may be required herein for affiliated uses such as
restaurants and the like.
      (9)   Theatres: At least one parking space for each four seats.
      (10) Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors: At least eight
parking spaces for each chapel or parlor plus one parking space for each
funeral vehicle maintained on the premises.
      (11) Warehouse, storage, and wholesale establishments: At least one
parking space for each two employees as related to the working period when the
maximum number of persons are employed on the premises.
   (C)   Other uses.
      (1)   High schools, public or private: At least one parking space for
each ten students based upon the maximum number of students attending classes
on the premises at any one time in any 24-hour period.
      (2)   Elementary school, nursery school, and junior high schools, public
or private: At least one parking space for each three faculty members and other
full-time employees.
      (3)   Hospitals: At least one parking space for each two hospital beds
plus one parking space for each two employees (other then doctors), plus one
parking space for each doctor assigned to the staff.
      (4)   Churches and temples: At least one parking space for each four
seats.
      (5)   Private clubs and lodges: At least one parking space for each three
persons based on the maximum number of persons that can be accommodated at the
same time in accordance with designed capacity.
      (6)   Parking spaces for other permitted or special uses not listed above
shall be provided in accordance with the determination of the Zoning
Administrator with respect to the number of spaces that are required to serve
employees and the visiting public at each such use.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
OFF-STREET LOADING
§ 154.190 LOCATION.
   All required loading spaces or berths shall be located on the same lot as
the use served. All motor vehicles, loading berths, and off-street access
thereto which abut or are adjacent to a residence district shall be completely
screened therefrom by building walls, or a uniformly painted solid fence, wall,
or door, or any combination thereof, not less than five feet nor more than
eight feet in height. No permitted or required loading space or berth shall be
located within 40 feet of the nearest point of intersection of any two streets
or highways. No loading space or berth shall be located in a required front or
side yard, and any loading space or berth located in a required rear yard shall
be open to the sky.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.191 AREA.
   Unless otherwise specified, a required off-street loading space or berth
shall be ten feet in width by at least 25 feet in length, exclusive of aisle
and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical clearance of at least 15 feet.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.192 ACCESS.
   Each required off-street loading space or berth shall be designated with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street, highway, or alley in a
manner which will least interfere with traffic movement.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.193 SURFACING.
   All open off-street loading shall be improved with a compacted select gravel
base, not less than seven inches thick, surfaced with an all-weather, dustless
material.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.194 REPAIR AND SERVICE.
   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall be permitted in
conjunction with any off- street loading facilities.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.195 UTILIZATION.
   Space allocated for any off-street loading berth shall not, while so
allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirement for any off-street parking
facilities or portions thereof.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.196 MINIMUM FACILITIES.
   Uses for which off-street loading facilities are required by this subchapter
but which are located in buildings that have a gross floor area of less than
1,000 square feet shall be provided with adequate receiving facilities,
accessible by motor vehicle, from any adjacent alley, service drive, or open
space on the same lot.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.197 LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No off-street loading facilities are required in any residential
district.
   (B)   On the same lot with every building, or part thereof, erected
hereafter for any use permitted in a business or industrial district, the
following minimum off-street loading spaces shall be provided:
      (1)   In the B-1, B-2, and B-3 Districts, each of the following uses
containing more than 1,000 square feet of gross floor area shall have at least
one off-street loading space for each 100,000 square feet of gross floor area,
or fraction thereof: banks, medical and dental clinics, business and
professional office buildings, bowling alleys, dance halls, gymnasiums, indoor
and outdoor theatres, and other amusement establishments. All other uses
permitted in such districts shall provide off-street loading facilities in
accordance with the following table:
 
Gross Floor Area In      Required Number and
Thousands of Square Feet Size of Loading Spaces
1-10                     1 (10 feet × 25 feet)
10-25                    2 (10 feet × 25 feet each)
25-40                    2 (10 feet × 50 feet each)
40-100                   3 (10 feet × 50 feet each)
                         3 plus 1 (10 feet × 50 feet each)
Over 100                 for each additional 100,000 square feet, or fraction
                         thereof
 
      (2) In the I-1 and I-2 Districts, all uses shall provide off-street
loading spaces in accordance with the following table:
 
Gross Floor Area In      Required Number and
Thousands of Square Feet Size of Loading Spaces
1-10                     1 (10 feet × 25 feet)
10-40                    1 (10 feet × 50 feet)
40-100                   2 (10 feet × 50 feet each)
                         2 plus 1 (10 feet × 50 feet each)
Over 100                 for each additional 100,000 square feet, or fraction
                         thereof.
 
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 154.205 USE PRIOR TO FEBRUARY 18, 1964; “GRANDFATHER” PROVISION.
   Any use or structure lawfully existing or established on the effective date
of this chapter (February 18, 1964), which does not conform to all the
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located, may be continued
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1993-O-02, passed 2-2-93)
§ 154.206 USE AFTER FEBRUARY 18, 1964; “GRANDFATHER” PROVISION.
   Any lawfully existing or established use or structure which fully conforms
to the provisions of this chapter, but which subsequently becomes nonconforming
due to any amendment to this chapter, shall be entitled to continue,
notwithstanding the fact that it does not comply with such zoning regulation
amendments.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1993-O-02, passed 2-2-93)
§ 154.207 TRANSFER OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   The purchaser of property constituting a legal nonconforming use is entitled
to the same rights as the grantor of that property.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1993-O-02, passed 2-2-93)
§ 154.208 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.
   Repairs and alterations may be made to a nonconforming building, provided
that no structural alterations shall be made in or to a building, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in
the district in which it is located, except that structural alterations may be
made if they are required by law or are necessary to make the building and use
thereof conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1993-O-02, passed 2-2-93)
§ 154.209 ADDITIONS AND EXPANSIONS.
   (A)   A building and/or structure which is nonconforming as to lot size
requirements or building bulk regulations, or all or substantially all of which
is designed, intended, or used for a use not permitted in a district in which
it is located, shall not be added to, expanded, or enlarged unless such
addition, expansion, or enlargement conforms to all the regulations of the
district in which it is located and unless the entire building thereafter
conforms to all the regulations of the district.
   (B)   A nonconforming use of a building and/or structure shall not be
expanded or extended into any other portion of such structure unless all or
substantially all such structure was designed or intended for a use not
permitted in the district in which it is located.
   (C)   A nonconforming use of a building and/or structure, or portion
thereof, shall not be changed to any other nonconforming use.
   (D)   A nonconforming use of land shall not be increased in intensity, nor
be expanded or extended beyond the area it occupied at the date of the adoption
of this chapter or any amendment to this chapter.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the foregoing divisions, a nonconforming residential
building may be expanded, altered or extended without obtaining a variance from
the Planning and Zoning Board and Village Board provided that all of the
following requirements are met:
      (1)   The land upon which the residential building is located must be a
“lot of record” as defined in this chapter;
      (2)   All setbacks and building lines must be preserved and no part of
the addition may intrude over them;
      (3)   No more than 25% of the gross area of the lot or plot of land upon
which the building sits may be covered by the buildings or structures upon that
land;
      (4)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to permit the construction of more
additional, separate structures upon the land than are permitted under §
154.009;
      (5)   Nothing herein shall be construed to grant greater powers to grant
any variance to the Planning and Zoning Board than is set forth elsewhere in
this code.
   (F)   Nonconforming downtown (DT) district structures. The following
regulations allow for the continuation of occupation of a structure in a
downtown (DT) district that was legally constructed prior to the adoption or
amendment to §
154.078, but that could not occur under the provisions of this code.
      (1)   All building type standards apply to all new construction and
renovation of existing structures where the renovation includes an addition of
more than 60% in gross building square footage.
      (2)   When the existing front or corner facade is located within the
build-to zone and a renovation of the front facade occurs with or without any
added building square footage, the street facade requirements and entrance type
requirements of any permitted building type shall be met when the renovation
includes any of the following:
         (a)   Installation of additional doors or a change in location of a
door;
            1.   Expansion or change in location of 30% of windows on any
street facade; or
         (b)   Replacement of 30% or more of facade materials on any street
facade with a different facade material.
      (3)   When the existing building front or corner facade is located within
the build-to zone and a renovation of the shape or style of the roof occurs
with or without added building square footage, the roof type requirements of
any permitted building type shall be met.
      (4)   Under all circumstances, no portion of the building type standards
must be met in the case of normal repairs required for safety and continued use
of the structure, such as replacement of window or door glass.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1993-O-02, passed 2-2-93; Am. Ord. 2002-O-10,
passed 3-19-02; Am. Ord. 2014-O-9, passed 5-20-14)
§ 154.210 DISCONTINUANCE OR ABANDONMENT.
   Discontinuance or abandonment of a legal nonconforming use of land or
structure for a period of one year from the date of such discontinuance or
abandonment, shall operate to forfeit the right of a pre- existing legal
nonconforming use of land or structure.
(Ord. 1993-O-02, passed 2-2-93)
§ 154.211 RESTORATION OF A DAMAGED NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Non-residential structures and uses. Any structure other than a
single-family home, a duplex, an apartment building, a residential condominium
or townhouse which is nonconforming as to lot size requirements or building
bulk regulations or all or substantially all of which is designed, intended, or
used for a use which is not permitted in the district in which it is located,
which is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty or force majeure to the
extent that the cost of restoration shall exceed 50% of the cost of replacement
of the entire structure, shall not be restored unless such structure and use
thereof shall conform to all the regulations of the district in which it is
located. If the cost of restoration of such damaged structure does not exceed
50% of the cost of replacement of the entire structure, no repairs or
reconstruction shall be made unless such restoration is completed within one
year from the date of the fire or other casualty or force majeure.
   (B)   Residential structures and uses. The rebuilding of any residential
structure, including only single-family homes, duplexes, apartment buildings,
residential condominiums and townhouses, which is damaged by fire, other
casualty or force majeure shall be governed by the following provisions:
      (1)   Restoration as of right. A residential structure which is
nonconforming as to lot size requirements or building bulk regulations or all
or substantially all of which is designed, intended, or used for a use which is
not permitted in the district in which it is located, which is destroyed or
damaged by fire or other casualty or force majeure to the extent that the cost
of restoration is less than 50% of the cost of replacement of the entire
structure, may be restored even though such structure and use thereof shall not
thereafter conform to all the regulations of the district in which it is
located. No such restoration shall increase the size of the structure unless
required by building or accessibility codes, and then only to such size as is
necessary to meet the requirements of the applicable codes and no repairs or
reconstruction shall be made unless such restoration is completed within one
year from the date of the fire or other casualty or force majeure and is
diligently pursued until completion.
      (2)   Conditional restoration. A residential structure which is
nonconforming as to lot size requirements or building bulk regulations or all
or substantially all of which is designed, intended, or used for a use which is
not permitted in the district in which it is located, which is destroyed or
damaged by fire or other casualty or force majeure to the extent that the cost
of restoration shall exceed 50% of the cost of replacement of the entire
structure, may be restored even though such structure and use thereof shall not
thereafter conform to all the regulations of the district in which it is
located only under the following circumstances:
         (a)   The restoration shall not increase the size of the structure
unless required by building or accessibility codes, and then only to such size
as is necessary to meet the requirements of the applicable codes;
         (b)   The restoration shall not increase the intensity of the
nonconforming use of the property;
         (c)   The restoration building permit shall be applied for within six
months of the destructive event and all construction shall be completed within
one year of the granting of such permit;
         (d)   The Director of Planning, Zoning and Building shall have the
sole discretion to grant one extension of the building permit for a period not
to exceed six months upon application of the property owner demonstrating that
forces beyond his, her or its reasonable control prevented completion of the
restoration within the limits set forth hereinabove.
   (C)   Prohibited restoration.  No person or entity shall restore a structure
which is nonconforming as to lot size requirements or building bulk regulations
or all or substantially all of which is designed, intended, or used for a use
which is not permitted in the district in which it is located, which is
destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty or force majeur in any
circumstance which does not comply with the provisions set forth in divisions
(A) or (B) of this section.
(Ord. 1993-O-02, passed 2-2-93; Am. Ord. 2012-O-23, passed 10-16-12)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.215 ADMINISTRATION OFFICES.
   The administration of this chapter is hereby vested in the following two
offices of the village: the office of the Zoning Administrator and the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.216 DUTIES OF OFFICE OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The President of the Board of Trustees by and with the consent of the Board
of Trustees shall appoint a Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator or
the Administrator's duly designated and acting deputy shall enforce this
chapter, and in addition thereto and in furtherance of said authority, shall:
   (A)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Approve and issue all zoning and occupancy certificates and make and
maintain records thereof;
   (C)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this zoning chapter;
   (D)   Maintain permanent and current records of the zoning regulations,
including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments, and special uses,
variations, appeals, and applications therefor, and records of hearing thereon;
   (E)   Prepare and publish on or before March 31 of each year a map showing
the zoning districts, divisions, restrictions, regulations, and classifications
in effect on the preceding December 31;
   (F)   Publish on or before January of each year the rules of the Board of
Zoning Appeals and the Plan Commission in effect as of that date;
   (G)   Receive, file, and forward to the Plan Commission for action all
applications for special uses and for amendments to this chapter;
   (H)   Receive, file, and forward to the Board of Zoning Appeals for action
all applications for variations and the records in all appeals; and
   (I)   Provide such clerical, technical, and consultant assistance as may be
required by the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Plan Commission, and other village
officials in the exercise of their duties relating to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.217 REFERENCES.
   All references in this chapter to the Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning
Commission shall be considered to be references to the Planning and Zoning
Board, as set forth in §§
32.01 through
32.07.
(Ord. 2000-O-6, passed 5-16-00)
ZONING AND OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES
§ 154.235 ZONING CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No building permit pertaining to the use of land, buildings, or other
structures shall be issued by any employee of this village unless the
application for such permit has been examined by the Zoning Administrator and
has affixed to it or stamped thereon a certificate of the office of the Zoning
Administrator that the proposed building or structure complies with all the
provisions of this chapter. Any building permit or zoning certificate issued in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter shall be null and void.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.236 APPLICATION FOR ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Every application for a building permit shall contain or have affixed
to it an application for a zoning certificate containing the following
information:
      (1)   Nature of the proposed use.
      (2)   Number of dwelling units, if any.
      (3)   Lot area in square feet.
      (4)   Lot width in feet.
      (5)   Percentage of lot to be covered by buildings or structures.
      (6)   Square feet of floor area computed as defined in this chapter for
off-street parking and loading; and for floor area ratio, if applicable.
      (7)   Size in feet of front, side, and rear yards.
      (8)   Size and location of signs.
      (9)   Number and size of required off-street parking and loading spaces.
      (10) A plat, in duplicate, of the piece or parcel of land, lot, lots,
block or blocks, or parts or portions thereof, drawn to scale showing the
actual dimensions of the piece or parcel, lot, lots, block or blocks, or parts
or portions thereof, according to the registered or recorded plot of such land.
      (11) A plot plan, in duplicate, drawn to scale in such form as may, from
time to time, be prescribed by the Zoning Administrator showing the ground
area, height, and bulk of the building or structure, the building lines in
relation to lot lines, the use to be made of the building or structure or land,
and such other information as may be required by the Zoning Administrator for
the proper enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   One copy each of the plat and the plot plan shall be attached to the
application for a building permit when it is submitted to the Office of the
Zoning Administrator for a zoning certificate and shall be retained by the
Zoning Administrator as a public record. An application for a zoning
certificate shall also have affixed to it the certificate of an architect or
registered professional engineer licensed by the state that the building or
structure and the proposed use thereof comply with all of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.237 ISSUANCE OF ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   Within 20 days after the receipt of such application, with the aforesaid
certificate attached thereto, the Zoning Administrator shall affix a zoning
certificate to the building permit if there is compliance with all of the
relevant provisions of this chapter. If the Zoning Administrator shall refuse
to issue a zoning certificate, then the Administrator shall advise the
applicant in writing of the reasons for the refusal.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.238 APPLICATION FOR OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   No building, or addition thereto, constructed after the effective date
of this chapter and no addition to a previously existing building shall be
occupied, and no land vacant on the effective date of this chapter shall be
used for any purpose, until an occupancy certificate has been issued by the
office of the Zoning Administrator. No change in a use in any business or
industrial district shall be made until an occupancy certificate has been
issued by the office of the Zoning Administrator. Every occupancy certificate
shall state the use or occupancy complies with all the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Every application for a building permit shall be deemed to be an
application for an occupancy certificate. Every application for an occupancy
certificate for a new or changed use of land where no building permit is
required shall be made directly to the office of the Zoning Administrator and
shall show the proposed use of the building, structure, or land together with
such other information as may be necessary to show compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
LIMITED PRESENT USE DESIGNATION
§ 154.265 PURPOSE.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine and vary the regulations of this
chapter in harmony with their general purpose and intent, only in the specific
instances hereinafter set forth, and then only when the Board has made findings
of fact based upon the standards hereinafter prescribed supporting the
conclusion that the application of the strict letter of the regulations of this
chapter will create practical difficulties of particular hardship for the
owner, lessee, or occupant of land, buildings, or other structures.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.266 APPLICATION.
   An application for a limited present use designation shall be filed with the
office of the Zoning Administrator who shall forward a copy of same to the
Chairman or Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals without delay. The
application shall contain such information as the Board may, from time to time,
by rule provide. No more than 60 days after the filing of such application a
hearing shall be held on the application. Notice of such hearing shall be
published at least once, not more than 30 nor less than 15 days before the
hearing, in one or more newspapers published within the village, or if no
newspaper is published therein, then in one or more newspapers with a general
circulation within the said village. The notice shall contain the date, time,
and place of the hearing, the street address or common description of the
property involved, and a brief statement of the relief sought. In addition to
publication, notice in writing with all particulars as hereinabove set forth
shall be mailed return receipt requested to all owners abutting the property
for which a limited present use designation is sought. The published notice and
the notice of abutting owners may be supplemented by such additional form of
notice as the Board by rule may provide.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.267 STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall not vary the regulations of this
chapter as authorized in §
154.268, unless it shall, in each specific case, make findings of fact, based
upon the evidence presented to it, that support one or more of the following
conclusions:
      (1)   A practical difficulty of particular hardship on the owner would
result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if a limited present use
designation were not granted;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the petition is based exist because of
existing factors not entirely attributable to the owner of the property;
      (3)   The purpose of the request for a present use designation is not
based upon a desire to make more money out of the property;
      (4)   The granting of a present use designation will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property or
improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located.
   (B)   The Board may impose such conditions and restrictions upon the
premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary to comply with the
standards set out in this section to reduce or minimize the injurious effect of
such variation upon other property in the neighborhood, and better to carry out
the general intent of this chapter.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.268 AUTHORIZED LIMITED PRESENT USE DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   An authorized limited present use designation resulting in a variation
from the regulations of this chapter shall be granted by the Board only in
accordance with the standards set out in §
154.267 and may be granted only in accordance with and upon all the following
conditions:
      (1)   A limited present use designation will be granted only to the
present owner or owners holding not less than a 50% title interest in the
property (or, if a land trust, having not less than a 50% beneficial interest
in said trust), provided, that a contract purchaser or purchasers shall be
deemed to be an owner having a title interest for purposes of this section, and
mortgage liens or other liens encumbering the subject property shall not be
subtracted from the value of the title interest of the owners when determining
whether the owners have a 50% title interest in the property. Lessees or
assignees of the owner shall not be entitled to a limited present use
designation;
      (2)   A limited use will be granted only in instances where the facts
giving rise to the request for a special use designation have existed for a
period of time not less than two years, and a majority of the abutting property
owners have evidenced no written objections to such designations;
      (3)   A limited present use designation will terminate automatically and
immediately at such time as:
         (a)   The owner has divested himself of substantial ownership interest
in said property;
         (b)   The owner ceases to use the property in the same manner in which
said property was used at the time application for a limited present use
designation was filed;
         (c)   The owner's operation volume or use of the property is increased
significantly from that set forth at the time a special and limited present use
designation was granted;
         (d)   If the property or area is not continually maintained in a neat
and orderly manner;
         (e)   If parking in the area of the property in question becomes a
problem, or is objectionable to a number of abutting property owners.
   (B)   The concurring vote of the majority of a quorum of the Board shall be
necessary in order that the matter voted upon, including findings and
recommendation, may be submitted to the Village Board of Trustees for final
determination.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.269 FEES; RECORDING.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an objection indicating a zoning violation, the Board
receiving such objection, or the Village Clerk, shall notify the owner or
owners of the property in question of their right to apply for a limited
present use designation. The property owner, if it is the owner's intention to
apply for said limited use designation, shall be required to pay the requisite
fees as set forth in §
154.320.
   (B)   In those instances where the village grants the special limited
present use designation, said action shall be duly recorded by the Clerk and a
certified copy thereof recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds, said copy to
include the legal description of the property, the subject matter of the
petition.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
SPECIAL USES
§ 154.280 PURPOSE.
   The principle objective of the Zoning Code is to provide for an orderly
arrangement of compatible building and land uses and for the proper location of
all types of uses required for the social and economic welfare of the village.
To accomplish this objective, each type and kind of use is classified as
permitted in one or more of the various districts established by this
subchapter. However, in addition to those uses specifically classified and
permitted in each district, there are certain additional uses which it may be
necessary to allow because of their unusual characteristics or the service they
provide the public. These "special uses" require particular consideration as to
their proper location in relation to adjacent established or intended uses, or
to the planned development of the community. The conditions controlling the
location and operation of such "special uses" are established by the following
provisions of this subsection.
(Ord. 1999-O-13, passed 5-18-99)
§ 154.281 AUTHORITY.
   The Village Board of Trustees shall have authority to permit the uses of
land or structures, or both, set forth below in §
154.282 subject to conditions contained herein, and those in the individual use
districts, if it finds that the proposed location and establishment of any such
use will be desirable or necessary to the public convenience or welfare and
will be harmonious and compatible with other uses adjacent to and in the
vicinity of the selected site or sites. Notwithstanding any general
descriptions contained in any of the permitted uses set forth in any of the
zoning districts or any other provision of this Code, none of the uses so set
forth in §
154.282 shall be erected, allowed or permitted to exist upon any property
within the village unless and until a proper permit has been obtained as set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-O-13, passed 5-18-99) Penalty, see §
154.286
§ 154.282 PERMITTED SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Auditorium, stadium, arena, armory, gymnasium or other similar places
for public events, in any public, B-2 or industrial district, on a site of at
least 10 acres.
   (B)   Bingo parlors and other places where legalized gambling is conducted
in any form in any public or B-2 District.
   (C)   Bus terminal, railroad passenger station, or any other public
transportation terminal facility in any public, B-1, B-2 or industrial
district, provided the site has direct and convenient access to a major
arterial street.
   (D)   Automobile car washes or auto laundries in any B-2 district, provided
that:
      (1)   There shall be a water recovery system which will recover no less
than 80% of the water used when the car wash uses village water;
      (2)   Solid matter shall be removed by chemical or mechanical means
before any effluent from the car wash facility is discharged into the sanitary
sewer. All solids so removed shall be collected periodically and disposed of in
an authorized disposal area. All effluent discharged into the sanitary sewer
from the car wash facility shall be within the limits of pH 6.5 and 9.0;
      (3)   No less than 90% of the water shall be removed from the car before
it moves out of the facility;
      (4)   An attendant shall be present during all business hours.
   (E)   Automobile service stations, full service and self-service, in a B-
2 District.
   (F)   Cemeteries, crematories or mausoleums only in a commercial, industrial
or public use district provided:
      (1)   There shall be a minimum lot size of 50 acres, except where all
grave markers are flush with the ground level;
      (2)   The site of said use shall have direct and convenient access to a
major arterial street;
      (3)   All burial buildings shall be set back not less than 80 feet from
any street bounding the cemetery, and shall be set back not less than 55 feet
from any other property line. A burial building is any building used for the
interment of bodies or other remains of persons who have died, including
mausoleums, vaults, or columbaria;
      (4)   All graves or burial lots shall be set back not less than 30 feet
from any street bounding the cemetery and not less than 25 feet from any other
property line;
      (5)   Said use shall be fenced and screened from public view, walls,
berms, plantings or any combination thereof.
   (G)   Convention, meeting or assembly halls in a B-1 District.
   (H)   Hospitals or sanitariums, public and private, only in a business or
public use district provided that:
      (1)   There is a direct and close access to a major arterial street;
      (2)   All incidental and related uses shall be located on the same
property as such hospital or institution or within 300 feet of said property;
      (3)   Front, side and rear yards shall be provided with a depth of not
less than 50 feet each;
      (4)   The lot area covered by buildings shall not exceed 40% of the total
lot area.
   (I)   Institutions for the care of the insane or feeble-minded, public or
private, in any public use district subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   There shall be a front yard with a depth of not less than 100 feet;
      (2)   There shall be a side yard on each side of the building at least 75
feet wide;
      (3)   There shall be a rear yard of at least 100 feet;
      (4)   The area covered by buildings, including accessory buildings shall
not exceed 40% of the total lot area.
   (J)   Municipal recreation building, police station, fire station, post
office, library, museum, art gallery or community center in any public, B-1 or
industrial district.
   (K)   Nursing or rest homes only in a business district.
   (L)   Public or privately owned and operated fairgrounds, carnivals, or
other similar amusement centers in any public, B-2 or industrial district
provided:
      (1)   The site shall have direct public and close access to a major
arterial street;
      (2)   The use shall have a site of at least 10 acres.
   (M)   Cellular telephone transmitting or repeating antenna towers, landline
transmitting or repeating antenna towers, radio and television transmitting or
antenna towers (commercial) and other electronic equipment requiring outdoor
structures and including antenna towers used for sending private messages, but
not including private receiving aerials or antennas in any public, B-2 or
industrial district, provided:
      (1)   The tower shall be set back from all lot lines at least one and
one-half times its height so that the public safety and welfare will not be
endangered;
      (2)   The operation of the tower will not cause electronic interference
which will impair the use and enjoyment of electronic equipment owned or
operated by others in the vicinity of said tower.
   (N)   Recreation places, including billiard and pool rooms, bowling alleys,
dance halls, skating rinks, establishments with ten or more pinball and/or
amusement machines, or similar places of amusement when operated for a
pecuniary profit in any B-1 or B-3 district.
   (O)   Motels, hotels, inns, bed and breakfasts, rooming houses and other
transient or temporary lodging in a B-2 District.
   (P)   Telephone exchange, antenna towers, and other outdoor equipment
essential to the operation of the exchange, in any business or industrial
district.
   (Q)   Automobiles and trucks, trailers, motorcycles, recreational vehicles,
mobile homes, boats, agricultural and other equipment, new and used, sales,
rental and service (except service in an automobile service station) in a B-
2 District.
   ®)   Kennels in a B-2 District.
   (S)   Buildings supply and lumber yards, if any business activities are
conducted outside an enclosed building and within 500 feet of a residential
district, in a B-1 District.
   (T)   Indoor archery or gun shooting ranges.
   (U)   Public utility, public services and private uses, including electric
sub-stations, gas regulator stations, telephone transmission equipment
structures, microwave relay towers, water reservoirs or pumping stations,
windmills, and other similar facilities.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1995-O-17, passed 10-17-95; Am. Ord. 1998-O-7,
passed 2-17-98; Am. Ord. 1999-O-13, passed 5-18-99; Am. Ord. 2016-O-1, passed
1-5-16)
§ 154.283 STANDARDS.
   No special use shall be recommend by the Planning and Zoning Board unless
such Planning and Zoning Board shall find:
   (A)   That the establishment shall be recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Board unless such Planning and Zoning Board shall find:
   (B)   That the special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood;
   (C)   That the establishment of the special use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
   (D)   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
   (E)   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets;
and
   (F)   That the special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations may, in each instance, be modified by the Board of Trustees after
considering the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Board.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1999-O-13, passed 5-18-99; Am. Ord. 2016-O-1,
passed 1-5-16)
§ 154.284 CONDITIONS.
   The Planning and Zoning Board may recommend and the corporate authorities
may impose such conditions or restrictions upon the construction, location, and
operation of a special use, including but not limited to provisions for off-
street parking and loading, and shall be deemed necessary to secure the general
objectives to this chapter and to protect the values of property in the
neighborhood.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1999-O-13, passed 5-18-99)
§ 154.285 PROCEDURE.
   The procedure to be followed in considering applications for a special use
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Application. An application verified by the owner or authorized agent
of the owner of the property involved, shall be filed with the Village Clerk
for the attention of the Planning and Zoning Board upon a form prescribed
therefor, which shall contain, or be accompanied by all required information.
   (B)   Public Hearing. Upon receipt of such verified application, the Village
Clerk shall notify the Chairman of the Planning and Zoning Board, or in his or
her absence, the Secretary, who shall give notice of public hearing in the same
manner as provided for hearings on the reclassification of property, as
contained in §
154.295. A record of pertinent information presented at the public hearing
shall be made and maintained by the Planning and Zoning Board a part of the
permanent record relative to the application.
   (C)   Determination. The Planning and Zoning Board shall then make its
findings and recommendations to the Village Board of Trustees within 30 days
following the close of the public hearings of each application. The Village
Board of Trustees may then authorize a “special use” as defined herein by
special ordinance, provided the evidence presented is such as to establish:
      (1)   That the proposes use at the particular location requested is
necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which is in the
interest of public convenience, and will contribute to the general welfare of
the neighborhood or community;
      (2)   That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular
case, be detrimental to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare or
persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property values or
improvements in the vicinity; and
      (3)   That the proposed use will comply with the regulations and
conditions specified in this subchapter for such use, and with the stipulations
and conditions made a part of the authorization granted by the Village Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 1999-O-13, passed 5-18-99; Am. Ord. 2016-O-1, passed 1-5-16)
§ 154.286 PENALTIES.
   Any person, corporation or other entity violating §
154.281 by permitting any use to be erected or exist upon real property owned,
leased or controlled by him or her, it shall be subject to all remedies
existing at law or in equity for the abatement and prohibition of illegal or
unpermitted land usage, including but not limited to injunctions and
restraining orders, and he, she or it shall further be subject to a fine not to
exceed $500 per day for each day that such illegal or improper use exists or is
allowed to occur on the said property.
(Ord. 1999-O-13, passed 5-18-99)
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.290 AMENDMENTS TO ZONING REGULATIONS.
   The regulations imposed and the districts created under the authority of
this chapter may be amended in the manner provided by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 § 11-
13-14 of the Illinois Municipal Code. No such amendments shall be made without
a public hearing before the Village Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.291 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments may be proposed by the Board of Trustees, by the Plan Commission,
or by any other person.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.292 APPLICATION.
   Amendments initiated by the Board of Trustees shall be referred directly to
the Plan Commission. An application made by any other person for an amendment
to any of the provisions of this chapter or to any district created thereby
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. Such application shall be upon
such form and accompanied by such information as shall be required from time to
time by the Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.293 PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS.
   Upon receipt of an application for an amendment to the zoning ordinance, the
Zoning Administrator shall transmit the application to the Board of Trustees
prior to its next scheduled meeting. Upon receipt of such proposed amendment,
the Board of Trustees shall transmit a copy of it to the Plan Commission with
directions to hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment and to make
findings and recommendations and forward same to the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.294 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing on proposed amendments
initiated by the Board of Trustees or by the Plan Commission, and on all
applications for an amendment by any other person. The Plan Commission shall
determine the time and place for the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted
and a record of the proceedings shall be preserved in such manner and according
to such procedures as the Plan Commission shall prescribe, from time to time,
by rule, provided, however, that all testimony shall be taken under oath
administered by the member of the Plan Commission presiding at the hearing.
After the public hearing has been conducted, the Plan Commission shall prepare
findings of fact and recommendations with respect to the proposed amendment and
transmit the same to the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.295 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   The petitioner(s) seeking any relief before the PZB shall cause notice of
public hearing on a proposed amendment or other action requiring formal notice
to be published, at least once, not more than 30, nor less than 15 days before
the hearing, in a newspaper published in the village, or if no newspaper is
published therein, then in one or more newspapers with a general circulation
within said village. The notice shall contain the date, time, and place of the
hearing, the street address or common description of the property involved, if
any, and a brief statement of the amendment or other relief that is sought. In
all instances, except where an amendment to the regulations imposed and the
districts created under the authority of this chapter is sought, in addition to
publication, the petitioner(s) shall further cause notice in writing with all
particulars as hereinabove set forth to be mailed return receipt requested to
such owners abutting the property for which a special use, variance,
preannexation agreement, preliminary or final plat or unified residential
development is sought within that same 15 to 30 day period prior to the
hearing. The notice may also contain the legal description of the property. It
shall be the responsibility of the petitioner(s) to file a good and sufficient
affidavit or affidavits attesting to and proving that all notices required
hereunder shall have been accomplished in a timely and sufficient manner
consistent with the provisions hereof. The cost of all publications and
certified mailing shall be borne by the petitioner(s). In addition to the
foregoing, the village may post a sign on the subject parcel to provide greater
public visibility to the pending application, but the posting or non-posting of
any sign shall not be a jurisdictional prerequisite to the hearing, which may
proceed to a final conclusion pursuant to law in either event.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1999-O-12, passed 5-4-99)
§ 154.296 ACTION BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   If an application for a proposed amendment is not acted upon finally by the
Board of Trustees within six months of the date upon which the findings and
recommendations of the Plan Commission are filed with the Board of Trustees, it
shall be deemed to have been denied.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 154.297 INITIATION.
   Site development plan approval shall be initiated by the owner(s) of the
property, or the owner(s) agent, for which plan approval is sought.
   (A)   Procedure for initiation.
      (1)   The owner of the property for which a building permit is sought and
which development has not been previously approved under the requirements of
this section, shall file an application for site development plan approval
along with an application for such certificate of occupancy or building permit.
      (2)   The owner of the property, or a duly authorized representative of
the owner, shall file an application for site development plan approval with
the Building, Planning, and Zoning Administrator. It shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable fee established from time to time by the Village Board and shall
contain the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant including
the name and address of each person or entity owning an interest in the
applicant or owner and the extent of such ownership interest unless any of such
entities is a corporation or a partnership, in which case only those persons
owning an interest in excess of 10% in such corporation or partnership need be
identified by name, address and extent of interest. For purposes of this
section, the term OWNERSHIP INTEREST shall include any legal or equitable
interest held at the time of application in the real property which is the
subject of the application. The application shall include the signature of the
owner(s).
         (b)   A site development plan of the size and containing the
information required by division (B)(4) below.
   (B)   Contents of application. The application shall include the following
information and material for sites and development projects which have not
received site development plan approval under §
154.078 and this subchapter:
      (1)   A completed application from provided by the Building, Planning and
Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Each application shall include copies of all full sized documents
and drawings. For all graphic and plan drawings, a scale of not less than 1
inch = 100 feet shall be used. In no event shall individual sheets or drawings
exceed 30 inches by 36 inches. In addition, one set of reduced copies sized at
11 inches by 17 inches shall be submitted. All sets of drawings submitted shall
be folded.
      (3)   The names and addresses of the persons responsible for preparing
the plan.
      (4)   A site development plan including:
         (a)   For a site development plan which includes any existing
structures or other improvements, an indication of those improvements that are
to remain and those which will be removed.
         (b)   Underground storage tanks, if any.
         (c)   General alignment and lengths of all streets and all property
lines.
         (d)   All building restriction lines, highway setback lines,
easements, covenants, reservations and rights-of-way.
         (e)   Date, scale and north point.
         (f)   Sidewalks, streets, alleys, easements and utilities, including
street lighting and underground conduits for street lighting.
         (g)   Buildings and structures with entrances and exits identified.
         (h)   Driveways, entrances, exits, parking areas and sidewalks.
         (i)   Calculations of the following, as applicable:
            1.   Number of dwelling units or square footage of non-residential
uses;
            2.   Number of parking spaces;
            3.   Number of loading spaces;
            4.   Total land area.
         (j)   A proposed landscaping plan which considers the opportunity for
foundation landscaping in the front of the building, and appropriate parking
area screening to adjacent uses in the rear. The plan shall illustrate typical
plan view and section details.
         (k)   A light plan indicating all exterior building mounted and free-
standing lights and structures including overall height, type of lamp,
luminaries, and a statement that such lighting plan will meet the requirements
of the zoning ordinance.
         (l)   Preliminary exterior building elevations of all proposed
structures and exterior elevations of existing buildings when existing building
are proposed to be structurally altered. Elevations shall indicate the
materials to be used in the design of the structure and the proposed color
scheme.
         (m)   Elevations of proposed signs as well as the materials and colors
intended for the sign. "Typical" elevations shall be provided for wall mounted
signs including renderings of all sign faces; views of supporting members,
poles, bases and pedestals; side views which indicate both signage depth and
projections; method of illumination, materials indications, and dimensions of
all sign elements.
      (5)   Agreement of owner. All documents and information submitted as part
of an application for site development plan approval constitute a statement by
the applicant that he intends and agrees to be bound to develop in accord with
such information upon approval.
      (6)   Any other information that may reasonably be required by the
Village Board or Planning and Zoning Board or the Building, Planning and Zoning
Administrator to adequately assess the proposal as the case may be.
(Ord. 2007-O-22, passed 9-18-07)
§ 154.298 PROCEDURE FOR DECISION.
   The Planning and Zoning Board shall review the site development and provide
its recommendation to the Village Board, who shall then take final action in
the plan. Site development plans for the CBD Central Business District shall be
approved under the following procedure.
   (A)   Planning and Zoning Board recommendation. Within 30 days of the date
the site development plan first appears on the agenda of the Planning and
Zoning Board for action, the Planning and Zoning Board may vote to recommend
approval or denial of the site plan by a majority of those Planning and Zoning
Board members present and voting. If the Planning and Zoning Board fails to
vote within 30 days after the item has first appeared on the Planning and
Zoning Board agenda, the Board shall be deemed to have recommended denial,
unless such date is extended and mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the
Planning and Zoning Board.
   (B)   Village Board action. The Village Board shall approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the site development plan. Approval shall be made by
adoption of an ordinance authorizing such site development plan, and any
conditions thereon.
   (C)   Criteria for plans. In reviewing and determining whether to approve or
disapprove a site development plan, the Planning and Zoning Board shall
consider the criteria listed below, as appropriate.
   (D)   Conformance with ordinances. The application shall comply with the
provisions of §
154.078 and this subchapter and other ordinances of the village and of any
other applicable laws.
   (E)   The Director of Community Development (Director) shall approve a site
plan for parcels within DT districts if the site plan complies with all
requirements of the village's zoning ordinance. If the Director denies approval
of a site plan, the denial may be appealed by the applicant to the Planning and
Zoning Board for review. The Planning and Zoning Board shall then approve the
site plan, approve the site plan with conditions, or deny the site plan.
(Ord. 2007-O-22, passed 9-18-07; Am. Ord. 2014-O-9, passed 5-20-14)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 154.305 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. Planned developments are of substantially different character
from other special uses that specific and additional standards and exceptions
are established to govern the recommendations of the PZB and the action of the
Village Board of Trustees.
      (1)   The village, through the Board of Trustees, shall have the final
approval as to the placement of all roads, entryways, public buildings, well
houses, pumping stations and the like, and shall also have final say as to
preservation and improvement of sloughs, ponds, watercourses, streams and open
areas.
      (2)   Should there be requirements for varying ordinances of the village,
the developer and owner shall follow the variance procedures outlined in §
32.05 of this code.
   (B)   Concept plan.
      (1)   Prior to the preparation for filing of a preliminary plan and
applications thereof for a planned development, the applicant shall file a
concept plan and supporting documentation which, at minimum, shall contain the
following:
         (a)   Names, addresses, phone numbers of the current owner of the
subject property, petitioner and land planner or person preparing the sketch
plan;
         (b)   Location map or aerial photo at a minimum scale of one inch
equals 400 feet (1" = 400') which shows the site in relationship to adjacent
properties within 200 feet of the subject site;
         (c)   Sketch plan at a minimum scale of one inch equals 200 feet (1" =
200') (with 1" = 100', or larger scale, being preferred). The scale shall be
clearly indicated on the plan;
         (d)   Photostatic enlargements of the following, with a sketch plan
overlay or sketch plan superimposed; the USGS flood hazard map; (or in the
alternative, the FEMA flood insurance rate map in conjunction with a
topographic survey of the site); and the USDA resource conservation service
soil map;
         (e)   A letter from the school district as to whether or not the
school district shall require land or monetary donations, or a combination
thereof, in order for the developer to conform with the school donation
ordinance.
      (2)   The plan and ten copies shall be filed with the department of
planning, zoning and building, which shall arrange for a meeting of the
administrative development review committee at the earliest possible
convenience, but within 15 calendar days from the completed concept plan
submittal.
      (3)   The administrative development review committee meeting shall be
attended by the petitioner and/or his representatives. No formal vote will be
taken, but a consensus opinion will be arrived at and documented in writing.
The written documentation shall be transmitted to the petitioner within seven
calendar days of the committee meeting.
   (C)   Preliminary plan and special use applications.
      (1)   Review:
         (a)   Applications and supporting documentation for a preliminary plan
and a special use permit shall be filed with the Head of Building and Zoning a
minimum of 28 days prior to a PZB hearing. The application shall be on such
forms and contain such information as shall be established from time to time by
the PZB and shall be accompanied by 20 copies of the preliminary plan and 20
copies of all supporting documentation. PUDs shall include all items required
for a zoning amendment, pursuant to §
154.290 of this chapter, plus all information specified in this chapter, both
inclusive.
         (b)   On receipt of the applications, the Head of Building and Zoning
shall transmit same to the PZB with directions to hold a public hearing and
thereafter to make findings and recommendations and forward them to the Village
Board of Trustees.
         (c)   The PZB shall hold a public hearing on the applications at the
time and place as shall be determined by the commission. The hearing shall be
conducted and a record of the proceedings shall be preserved in a manner and
according to the procedures as the PZB shall by rule prescribe from time to
time. However, all testimony shall be taken under oath which shall be
administered by that member of the PZB presiding at the hearing.
         (d)   The PZB shall cause notice of the hearing to be given not more
than 30 days nor less than 15 days before the date of the hearing, by
publishing a notice thereof at least once in one or more newspapers in
circulation in the village. The notice shall include the description of the
property affected by the preliminary plan and special use permit as the PZB
may, by rule, prescribe from time to time. The published notice may be
supplemented by any additional form of notice that the PZB may prescribe. The
public hearing may be continued from time to time by mutual consent of the PZB
and the applicant. The continuance and/or any application for rezoning of the
property or determination by the PZB that rezoning is required in order to
permit consideration of the proposed use of the property shall toll or stop the
running of the 90-day limitations period set out in this section.
         (e)   Within 90 days following the date of the application, or the
filing by the applicant of the last item of required supporting data, whichever
is later, the PZB shall act to approve or disapprove the application for
preliminary approval and shall forward its findings and recommendations to the
Village Board of Trustees.
         (f)   Within 30 days following its next regular meeting after receipt
of the findings and recommendations from the PZB, the Village Board of Trustees
shall disapprove or approve the preliminary plan and special use permit with
such modifications or requirements as it may deem necessary.
         (g)   Approval of the preliminary plan shall not constitute authority
to proceed with construction of any improvements, but rather an approval of the
physical features of the plan as a basis for preparing the final plan. The
preliminary plan is an entitlement plan which runs with the land. However, if a
final plan or plat for the first phase is not approved within one year (unless
a lesser period is specified by individual PUD ordinance) from the date of
preliminary plan approval by ordinance, the village reserves the right to
conduct a public hearing to revoke the zoning and annul the preliminary PUD
plan, provided that notice is given to the applicant of the hearing not less
than 30 days prior to the hearing.
         (h)   Petitions shall also include any correspondence, applications
for review or preliminary review by other governmental agencies, as may be
required by specific circumstances. These may (or may not) include, but are not
necessarily limited to: U.S. Army Corps of engineers; U.S. Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), relative to letter of map amendment or map revision;
Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, archeological study of the site;
Illinois Department of Transportation; Lake County Highway Department; and Lake
County Stormwater Management Commission.
      (2)   Contents of preliminary plan. The preliminary plan or plans shall
be drawn at a minimum scale of one inch equals 100 feet (1" = 100') and shall
contain the following:
         (a)   Accurate dimensions of the boundaries of the property to be
developed. Dimensions shall be in feet and shall be accurate to the nearest
foot.
         (b)   Indicate location, type of structures on adjacent properties
within 200 feet of the proposed development.
         (c)   Show the approximate proposed size, location, use and type of
all buildings and structures, except single-family detached home developments
shall show typical driveways, lot layout and size range of homes.
         (d)   Show proposed location, size, height, elevations and orientation
of all signs.
         (e)   Show the approximate proposed number and arrangement of all off-
street parking and loading spaces, location and width of driveways, entrances
and exits and their relationship to existing streets, except as provided in
this section.
         (f)   Show all areas to be maintained as permanent open space.
         (g)   Proposed landscaping plan shall be shown on the preliminary
plan. The use of existing landscaping and plant materials shall be encouraged
in conformance with standard landscaping practices and in compliance with §
152.025 of this code. The use of an overall landscape concept plan plus details
showing size and species for entry treatments and a typical lot shall satisfy
the provisions of this section.
         (h)   For each proposed use area, provide a tabulation of land
coverage factor; usable open space ratios; acres of land; and each percentage
of total land area.
         (i)   For all proposed residential use areas, provide a tabulation by
use area and dwelling type of estimated population, number of units and bedroom
ratios.
         (j)   Show existing and proposed locations for parks, playgrounds,
schools, community buildings and other open spaces. Where the plan provides for
open space, this space shall not be used for the construction of a building or
structure, nor shall the open space ever be computed as a part of the required
minimum lot size or any required yard of any other building or structure.
Tennis courts, roof decks suitably improved and swimming pools shall also be
regarded as open space. Adequate safeguards shall .be provided to prevent the
subsequent development of this open space and to prevent the future
construction of buildings and structures on this open space, except public
buildings, such as well or pump houses, or recreational buildings for the
common good.
         (k)   Show location and dimensions of pedestrian walks and ways.
         (j)   Show existing topography with contour intervals not greater than
two feet, drainage channels, wetlands, streams, lakes, swamps, flood zones,
rock outcrops, buildings, young and mature woodlands and other features likely
to affect the plan. The source and accuracy of the topographic information
shall be based on the village datum plane. If wetlands are present on the site
based upon the latest Lake County wetlands inventory, the developer shall
submit a wetlands delineation report prepared by a certified ecologist and
supplemented by a review letter from the USDA natural resource conservation
service. If flood plains are present on the site, the developer shall submit
accurate topography and calculations upon which to determine the base flood
elevation (BFE). Relative to proposed stormwater detention, preliminary
engineering plans and calculations shall be submitted in sufficient detail to
determine conformance with the watershed development ordinance. For those sites
previously farmed, a drain tile survey and plan drawing shall be prepared by a
registered surveyor or professional engineer and submitted. All plans submitted
shall include the name, address, telephone number and fax number of the
surveyor, engineer or other design professional who prepared the plans.
         (m)   Submit a copy of the Lake County soil and water conservation
district report regarding this proposal.
         (n)   Indicate the preliminary time schedule showing the stages, if
any, which will be followed in carrying out construction of the proposed
development and interim use and maintenance of areas not under construction at
any given time.
         (o)   Contain the written consent of all property owners within the
development filed with the petition before the public hearing on the
preliminary plan and special use permit. List the names of any beneficiaries of
trusts holding property in question. The statement will provide that the
petitioners agree to be bound by the conditions and regulations proposed and
further agree to record and to register the agreements with the Lake County
recorder of deeds or registrar of titles.
   (D)   Final plan.
      (1)   Review.
         (a)   Filing of application. An application for approval of a final
plan shall be filed with the Village Clerk. This application shall be upon such
form and contain the information as shall be established from time to time by
the PZB, and shall be accompanied by 15 copies of the final plan containing all
information specified in this section.
         (b)   Transmission of application to PZB. Upon receipt of an
application for approval of a final plan, the Village Clerk shall transmit same
to the PZB prior to its next scheduled meeting.
         (c)   Review, findings and recommendations. The PZB shall review the
final plan for its conformance with the preliminary plan as approved, and
shall, within 60 days of receipt of the plan, make its findings and
recommendations to the Village Board of Trustees.
         (d)   Decision. After receipt of the aforesaid findings and
recommendations, the Village Board of Trustees shall, within 60 days, approve
or disapprove the final plan.
         (e)   Inspection. Prior to the approval of the final plan or any part
thereof, the developer, along with the PZB, the Village Board of Trustees and
any employee of the village, including the Village Engineer and the Village
Attorney, shall make a physical inspection of the property to be developed as a
planned unit development or as a subdivision, for the purpose of determining
the actual layout of the roads, public utility easements, public buildings,
entryways and other public improvements and to further determine the topography
of the property for the purpose of preserving the natural setting of the
development, including trees, waterways, ponds, sloughs and the like. The
inspection shall be scheduled at the convenience of the village.
      (2)   Approval; time valid. Final approval, valid for one year from the
date of approval, shall be secured for each phase, state or section of the
development as delineated on the preliminary plan approved by the PZB and
Village Board.
      (3)   Contents of final plan. The final plan shall include the following:
         (a)   Final site plan indicating:
            1.   Location of all buildings and structures, and any other
special facility or feature to be constructed;
            2.   Location of all parking and loading spaces, driveways,
entrances and exits;
            3.   Location of all substantive plant materials including type and
size; and including existing tree cover, in conformance with §
152.025 of this code;
            4.   Location of all common open spaces;
            5.   Location of all drainage facilities;
            6.   Building plans for all buildings other than detached single-
family dwellings, including floor plans; exterior elevations; cross sections;
perspective drawings; outline specifications of type of building materials;
type of wall and roof construction; and type of pavement and surfacing
materials;
            7.   Dedication of any rights-of-way for the widening, extension or
connection of major streets as shown on the official comprehensive plan;
            8.   A written statement signed by the owner(s) of the property
describing the arrangements by which the owner(s) proposes to regulate use of
the property and otherwise ensure development in accordance with the
preliminary plan. Covenants, which include adequate provisions to assure proper
maintenance and repair, and provisions for maintaining adequate personnel to
assure security of all areas and facilities under common ownership, including
the payment therefor and enforceability thereof by or on behalf of the village.
It shall also include the proposed charter and bylaws of an association, if
any, for owners or tenants within the development; and
            9.   Requirements of divisions (3)(a)1. and (3)(a)2. of this
section shall not be required in a single-family detached dwelling development
when a typical layout for landscaping or typical housing elevations will be
provided.
         (b)   Engineering plans and specifications for all sanitary sewer,
storm sewer, water distribution lines and street lights along with the then
existing utilities which are adjacent to the property in question, shall be
shown.
         (c)   Final version of the covenants, conditions and restrictions of
record by which the owner proposes to regulate land and building use, assure
adequate maintenance, security, institution of a homeowners' association and
otherwise protect the proposed development, accompanied by the written
representation and warranty of the owner, in form and substance satisfactory to
the village board of trustees, to the effect that said owner of the real
property which is the subject of the proposed development will not sell or
otherwise dispose of any interest in the property prior to the filing of record
of the covenants, conditions and restrictions of record in the office of the
recorder of deeds in Lake County, Illinois.
            1.   Should the developer, owner or his successor in interest
develop the planned unit development in separate phases, the original
declarations of covenants, conditions and restrictions of record shall state
that when any subsequent phase in the development is finalized by the recording
of a final plat for that particular phase, the owner or his successors shall
prepare an instrument legally sufficient to subject the new phase to the
original declarations of covenants, conditions and restrictions of record and
the existing homeowners' association.
            2.   A phased development is one where only a portion of the entire
approved development will be developed at any one time.
            3.   Any modification to this requirement, that all phases of a
planned unit development must be in one homeowners' association and subject to
one set of covenants, conditions and restrictions of record, must be approved
by ordinance after a public hearing before the combined planning and zoning
board with final approval by the village board of trustees.
            4.   The deeds or easement agreements, if any, as are required or
approved by the Village Board of Trustees conveying a suitable ownership
interest in any parcels within the proposed development which are to be subject
to public ownership.
            5.   A current copy of the articles of incorporation of the owners'
or tenants' association, if any, certified by the Secretary of State, and a
copy of the bylaws shall be submitted along with the final plan.
            6.   A written concurrence from the Village Engineer accepting the
development engineer's estimate of probable costs of the proposed public and
quasi-public improvements, (for example, storm water detention basins or
retention ponds on outlots).
         (d)   Guarantees. The developer/owner shall provide an irrevocable
letter of credit or surety bond to the village within seven calendar days from
the recording of the plat of the planned unit development or the village
reserves the right to consider vacating the plat of the planned unit
development. The irrevocable letter of credit or surety bond shall be:
            1.   In the amount of 110% of the approved engineer's estimate as
determined by the Village Engineer, pursuant to this section;
            2.   An irrevocable letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
village and issued from a viable financial institution or a surety bond issued
by an insurance company duly licensed to insure sureties in the State of
Illinois and which carries a rating of not less than A+ from A.M. Best Co.;
            3.   The irrevocable letter of credit or surety bond shall be filed
prior to the issuance of any building permit or construction permit, including
site development permit;
            4.   The irrevocable letter of credit shall have periodic
drawdowns, when requested from the financial institution in writing and backed
by lien waivers or proof of payment. The drawdown related to the final payment
to contractors shall be presented to the Mayor and Board of Trustees along
with:
               a.   A written request from the village formally accepting the
planned unit development's public improvements;
               b.   An indication that, following the final payment to
contractors, the balance remaining within the letter of credit equals at least
10% of the original approved engineer's estimate. The balance shall remain as a
maintenance guarantee, in the letter of credit, which shall remain in force for
a minimum of 24 months from the date of the Village Board's formal acceptance
of the planned unit development's public improvements;
            5.   A surety bond may be reduced in face value of its coverage in
a similar manner, using similar standards as that set forth in subdivision (4)
above.
            6.   The irrevocable letter of credit shall be between the village
and the financial institution only, the developer, owner, and the like, shall
have no interest in the proceeds set out in the letter of credit. A sample
letter of credit is on file at the village hall.
            7.   Revocation of approval. Approval of the final plan shall be
subject to revocation by the Village Board of Trustees, if construction of all
improvements is not completed within three years of the date of approval of the
final plan. Extensions of the time schedule may be granted by the Village Board
of Trustees.
   (E)   Recording documents. The final plan, as approved by the Village Board
of Trustees, shall constitute the final land use and zoning plat and shall be
filed with the Lake County Recorder of Deeds. No permit allowing construction
of a building or any other improvement shall be issued until the final plan is
recorded. All recording costs shall be paid by the applicant. Any changes to
the approved final plan shall be accomplished by the submission of preliminary
plans and final plans of the change, which shall be approved under the
procedures as set forth herein for the approval of the original preliminary
plans and the approval of the original final plans. No building permit or
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any building or use that is not in
accordance with an approved final plan.
   (F)   Fees. The fees for examination and inspection and legal fees for any
planned unit development project shall be in accordance with the applicable fee
sections of the village code.
   (G)   General standards. A planned development shall conform to the
following requirements:
      (1)   The number of dwelling units erected shall not exceed the number
permitted by the regulations of the district where located.
      (2)   The amount of off-street parking must be adequate to serve the
needs of the projects, and the Village Board may require more off street
parking than would otherwise normally be required by this chapter for good
cause shown.
      (3)   If any open space or recreational facility is to be used solely by
the residents of the project, unless the development is under single ownership,
adequate provisions shall be made for assessments against the property within
the project so that the facilities can be properly improved, maintained and
operated.
      (4)   Underground utilities, including communications and electric
systems, are required within the limits of a planned development. Appurtenances
to these systems which can be effectively screened may be exempted from this
requirement if the Village Board finds that the exemption will not violate the
intent or character of the development.
   (H)   Design regulations. For the uses permitted on the approved preliminary
plan the standards and provisions set out in this section shall be required.
   (I)   Residential districts.
      (1)   Residential density.
         (a)   Residential density shall be expressed as dwelling units per
acre. The area or acreage shall be based upon net development area, meaning the
gross area of the entire site less the area of any and all roads and streets.
         (b)   The number of dwelling units permitted shall be determined by
dividing the net development area by the minimum lot area per family required
by the district or districts in which the site is located. Consideration of the
maximum number of dwelling units on a site shall include, but not necessarily
be limited to:
            1.   The land set aside for common open space, or public or
recreational use;
            2.   The extent to which developer financed park improvements
(whether private or public) are part of the proposal;
            3.   The extent to which environmentally sensitive lands and mature
trees are protected;
            4.   The ability of the village to service the site with sanitary
sewers and potable water; and
            5.   The extent to which a range of lot sizes is provided (rather
than maximizing the gross density by proposing all, or nearly all, minimum
sized lots). Lot size variations may be considered up to 15% of that lot area
considered minimum within the underlying zoning district, provided that the
average lot size within the proposed development or proposed zoning category
meets or exceeds the minimum lot size.
      (2)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage of residential buildings
shall not exceed 30%.
      (3)   Yard and lot size requirements.
         (a)   Yards and open spaces adjoining the boundaries of the
development shall not be less than the yard requirements of the adjoining
village residential district. A landscaped and land sculptured buffer strip at
least ten feet wide shall be provided along all peripheral lot lines. Larger
than minimum width buffer strips may include pedestrian walkways, bike paths or
recreational trails; and are encouraged where the trails could connect the
residential area to various community amenities, including, but not necessarily
limited to, schools and parks. Spacing between principal buildings in
thedevelopment shall be at least 12 feet and shall be consistent with
recognized site planning principles, including, but not necessarily limited to:
natural landscape, topography, usable backyard area for use by residents and
openness normally afforded by intervening streets and alleys.
         (b)   Single-family residential planned unit developments (PUDs) shall
provide for a range of lot sizes, as regulated by this section.
      (4)   Usable open space. There shall be at least 10% of the gross land
area in the development provided for park and recreational purposes which shall
not be covered by buildings, parking lots, driveways or streets. No more than
50% of the usable open space shall be covered by permanent bodies of water or
streams. In residential PUDs of 100 acres or more, a minimum of 25% of the site
shall be devoted to open space, as opposed to the 10% requirement noted above.
The minimum amount of land required to be dedicated as public park, as
determined by §
152.155 of this code shall be upland area, graded, seeded and equipped by the
developer.
      (5)   Land improvements. Sanitary sewer, water and stormwater drainage
systems, including all appurtenances thereto, curbs, paving, street lights,
pedestrianways, street signs and landscaping shall be provided in accordance
with the standards and specifications of the village as set forth in this code.
      (6)   Private streets. No private streets shall be allowed.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in
accordance with §§
154.175 through
154.197 of this code.
   (J)   Commercial/business and manufacturing districts.
      (1)   Intensity of use. The land coverage of all principal and accessory
buildings and structures shall not exceed 25% of the lot area, except that the
percentage of land coverage may be increased 2% for each 10% of required off
street parking which is located either below grade or in a parking structure,
up to a maximum lot coverage of 40%.
      (2)   Exterior lighting. All exterior lighting shall be shaded wherever
necessary to avoid illumination of any adjacent property or streets or public
rights-of-way.
      (3)   Site development.
         (a)   An opaque screen shall be installed and maintained along all lot
lines, other than streets, abutting areas zoned for residential use. Except as
otherwise provided, it shall have a total height of not less than six feet nor
more than seven feet. Where there is a difference in elevation on opposite
sides of the screen, the height shall be measured from the highest elevation. A
screen shall consist of one or more of the following types:
            1.   Walls. A wall shall consist of concrete, stone, brick, tile or
similar type of masonry material a minimum of eight inches thick.
            2.   Berms. A berm may be banked on both sides, or with one side
banked toward the lot line with a retaining wall. A berm shall be not less than
20 feet wide at the base and shall have an undulating contour and shall be
sloped for ease of maintenance. It shall be constructed of earthen materials
and shall be landscaped.
            3.   Planting. Plant materials, when used as a screen, shall
consist of a mixture of compact evergreen plants and taller deciduous plants.
They shall be of a kind, and used in a manner, so as to provide screening
having a minimum width of three feet within 18 months after initial
installation. Plant materials shall not be limited to a maximum height.
         (b)   The Superintendent of Public Works may require, with approval of
the Village Board, that either walls or berms, as set out in subdivision (a)
above, shall be installed if, after 18 months after installation, plant
materials have not formed an opaque screen, or if an opaque screen is not
maintained.
         (c)   Landscaping, consisting of standard evergreen and deciduous
trees and shrubs in combination with vines and ground cover, shall be installed
and maintained according to the following standards:
            1.   Boundary landscaping is required for a minimum depth of 25
feet from the right-of- way line along all abutting streets or rights of way
except for the openings and the area within ten feet on either side of the
street openings. Within the boundary landscaping area, there shall be one
standard tree and two standard shrubs for each ten feet of street frontage and,
to the extent practicable, these shall include any existing standard trees or
shrubs within the boundary landscaping area.
            2.   An additional landscaped area, equal to at least five percent
of the total area of the parcel is required. Within this area, one standard
tree and one standard shrub is required for each 500 square feet of area to be
landscaped.
            3.   Within the off-street parking area, planting bays containing
one standard tree for each ten parking spaces are required.
            4.   Any landscaped area shall be separated from an adjacent
vehicular area by a wall or curb at least six inches higher than the adjacent
vehicular area.
            5.   Landscaping along all streets and boundaries shall be limited
to a height of not more than three feet within 20 feet of the point of
intersection of two or more vehicular traffic ways, driveways or streets.
            6.   Required landscaping shall be maintained in a neat, clean and
healthy condition. This shall include proper pruning, mowing of lawns, weeding,
removal of litter, fertilizing, replacement of plants when necessary, and the
regular watering of all plants.
         (d)   Existing topographic patterns shall be preserved, except where
modifications will specifically contribute to increased utility of the site
and/or enhancement of the site.
         (e)   The provisions of this subdivision (J)(3) may be satisfied by
the developer using a registered landscape architect or a registered architect
who will use the above provisions for subsections 3.a., 3.b., 3.c. and 3.d. as
a guide.
      (4)   Vehicular access. All vehicle access points to the site must meet
all state, county or municipal codes and road design requirements, depending
upon the jurisdiction responsible for the street or road involved.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading facilities. Off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.175 through
154.197 of this chapter.
      (6)   Land improvements. Sanitary sewer, water and stormwater drainage
systems, including all appurtenances thereto, curbs, paving, street lights,
pedestrian ways and street signs shall be provided in accordance with the
standards and specifications of the village as set forth in this code.
      (7)   Private streets. No private streets shall be permitted.
      (8)   Signs. All signs in the development shall conform with village
ordinances.
      (9)   Yard requirements. Yards and open spaces adjoining the boundaries
of the development shall not be less than the yard requirements of the
adjoining zoning district.
   (K)   Variances. The petitioner, his attorney or agents, shall have the
right to request a variation or modification to any of the terms and provisions
of the village ordinances as part of the planned development request. The
petitioner shall state, in writing, the reasons for the requested variance. The
PZB may recommend variations as part of a planned development request in
specific cases where it finds that extraordinary hardships or practical
difficulties unique to the site may result from strict compliance with the
village's regulations. Variances to the technical provisions of the subdivision
code may be granted without a public hearing.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 2004-O-4, passed 3-16-04)
HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 154.310 PERMIT.
   Applications for the approval of major home occupations shall be processed
and authorized in the same manner as applications for a special use permit as
set forth in §§
154.281 and
154.282. A public hearing shall be held on all applications for the approval of
a major home occupation in accordance with §
154.294, but only after the publication of a notice as required by §
154.295. The Plan Commission may recommend and the Board of Trustees may impose
such conditions or restrictions upon the major home occupation as shall be
deemed necessary to secure the general objectives of this chapter and to
protect the value of property in the neighborhood.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.311 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the home occupation provisions is to allow for home
occupations that are compatible with the neighborhood in which they are
located. The provisions contained in this subchapter shall supercede any
provisions to the contrary found elsewhere in the zoning code.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.312 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Home occupations complying with the criteria established in §
154.314 shall be considered minor in character and permitted by right with no
permit required. Major home occupations shall commence only after the receipt
of a special use permit as outlined in §
154.310.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.313 CRITERIA FOR MAJOR HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Uses classified as major shall be considered special uses and administered
according to §
154.310. Further, major home occupation shall be encouraged in neighborhoods in
transition from one land use to another and high-density neighborhoods such as
R-3 and R-4 Residential. Pure single-family neighborhoods should, in general,
be protected from major home occupations, unless it can be specifically
demonstrated that such a use will have no short- or long-term negative impact
on the neighborhood. To this extent, the following regulations shall apply to
all major home occupations.
   (A)   The use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on
by the inhabitants thereof and no others.
   (B)   The use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes, and the appearance of the structure shall not
be altered or the occupation within the residence be conducted in a manner
which would cause the premises to differ from its residential character either
by the use of colors, materials, construction, lighting, signs, or the emission
of sounds, noises, or vibrations.
   (C)   The total area used for such purposes (including storage) shall not
exceed the equivalent of one- half of the floor area, in square feet, of the
first floor of the user's dwelling unit, if any; otherwise, the main floor of
the dwelling unit.
   (D)   There shall be no signs present on the property except for one wall
sign, not to exceed one square foot, indicating the address and the occupant's
name; for example, Joe Doe - Accountant.
   (E)   There shall not be conducted on the premises the business of selling
stocks of merchandise, supplies, or products, provided that incidental retail
sales may be made in connection with other permitted home occupants; for
example, a single-chair beauty parlor would be allowed to sell combs, hair
spray, and other miscellaneous items to customers. However, a dressmaker would
be required to do only custom work for specific clients and would not be
allowed to develop stocks of dresses for sale to the general public on-site.
   (F)   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of material used in
the home occupation nor of any highly explosive or combustible material. No
activity shall be allowed which would interfere with radio or television
transmission in the area; nor shall there be any offensive noise, vibration,
smoke, dust, odors, heat, or glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
   (G)   A home occupation, including studios or rooms for instruction, shall
provide additional off-street parking area reasonably adequate to accommodate
needs created by the home occupation of not less than one parking space for
each 300 square feet of floor area devoted to the home occupation.
   (H)   Deliveries from commercial suppliers may not be made more than once
each week, and the deliveries shall not restrict traffic circulation.
   (I)   Parties for the purpose of selling merchandise or taking orders shall
not be held more often than four times each month.
   (J)   Notwithstanding any provisions contained herein to the contrary,
garage, basement, yard, or other similar sales shall be permitted not more than
once each month, and each sale shall not last more than 72 consecutive hours.
   (K)   Permitted major home occupations shall include but are not necessarily
limited to the following:
      (1)   Any use allowed as a minor home occupation;
      (2)   Single-chair beauty parlors and barber shops;
      (3)   Photo developing;
      (4)   Organized classes with up to six students at one time;
      (5)   Television and other electrical repairs excluding major appliances
such as refrigerators or storage;
      (6)   Small engine repairs, excluding major automobiles, motorcycles, and
snowmobiles;
      (7)   Upholstering;
      (8)   Dressmaking;
      (9)   Woodworking excluding cabinet making; and
          (10) Day care facilities caring for more than three children.
   (L)   The following uses, by the nature of the investment or operating, have
a pronounced tendency once started to rapidly increase beyond the limits
permitted for home occupations and thereby impair the use and value of a
residentially zoned area for residence purposes and are more suited to
professional or business districts. Therefore, the uses specified below shall
not be permitted as home occupations:
      (1)   Minor or major auto repair, painting of vehicles, trailers, or
boats;
      (2)   Funeral chapel or home;
      (3)   Gift shops;
      (4)   Medical or dental clinics;
      (5)   Rental businesses;
      (6)   Catering;
      (7)   Photo studios;
      (8)   Massage parlors; and
      (9)   Welding or machine shops
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.314 CRITERIA FOR MINOR HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Uses classified as minor shall be permitted in all zoning districts which
allow single-family residences. The following regulations shall apply to all
minor home occupations.
   (A)   The use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on
by the inhabitants thereof and no others.
   (B)   The use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes, and the appearance of the structure shall not
be altered or the occupation within the residence be conducted in a manner that
would cause the premises to differ from its residential character either by the
use of colors, materials, construction, lighting, signs, or the emission of
sound or vibrations that carry beyond the premises.
   (C)   No more than one room of the dwelling may be used for the home
occupation.
   (D)   There shall be no advertising, display, or other indication of a home
occupation on the premises.
   (E)   There shall not be conducted on the premises the business of selling
stocks or merchandise, supplies, or products, provided that orders previously
made by telephone or at a sales party may be filed on the premises. That is,
direct sales of products off display shelves or racks is not allowed, but a
person may pick up an order placed earlier as described above.
   (F)   No storage or display of goods shall be visible from outside this
structure.
   (G)   No highly explosive or combustible material should be used or stored
on the premises. No activity shall be allowed that would interfere with radio
or television transmission in the area; nor shall there be any offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, or glare noticeable at or beyond the
property line.
   (H)   A home occupation shall not create greater vehicle or pedestrian
traffic than normal for the district in which it is located.
   (I)   Parties for the purpose of selling merchandise or taking orders shall
not be held more than four times each month.
   (J)   A home occupation shall have adequate parking spaces available to
compensate for additional parking needs generated.
   (K)   No use of material or equipment not recognized as being part of the
normal practices of owning and maintaining a residence shall be allowed.
   (L)   Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary,
garage, basement, yard, or other similar sales shall not be allowed more than
twice each year, and each sale shall not last more than 72 consecutive hours.
   (M)   Deliveries from commercial suppliers may not be made more than once
each week, and the deliveries shall not restrict traffic circulation.
   (N)   Permitted minor home occupations include, but are not necessarily
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Artists and sculptors;
      (2)   Authors and composers;
      (3)   Home crafts for sale off-site;
      (4)   Office facility of a minister, rabbi, or priest;
      (5)   Office facility of a salesman, sales representative, or
manufacturer's representative provided that no transactions are made in person
on the premises;
      (6)   Professional office facilities;
      (7)   Individual tutoring;
      (8)   Preserving and home cooking for sale off-site;
      (9)   Individual instrument instruction provided that no instrument may
be amplified;
          (10) Telephone solicitation work; and
          (11) Family day home care not involving more than three children.
   (O)   The following uses by the nature of the investment or operating have a
pronounced tendency once started to rapidly increase beyond the limits
permitted for home occupations and thereby impair the use and value of a
residentially zoned area for residence purposes. Therefore, the uses specified
below shall not be permitted as minor home occupations:
      (1)   All uses prohibited as major home occupations;
      (2)   Minor or major auto repair;
      (3)   Barber shop;
      (4)   Carpentry work;
      (5)   Dance instruction;
      (6)   Dental offices;
      (7)   Medical offices;
      (8)   Painting of vehicles, trailers, or boats;
      (9)   Photo developing, photo studios;
          (10) Private schools with organized classes;
          (11) Television repair;
          (12) Upholstering;
          (13) Beauty parlors;
          (14) Massage parlors;
          (15) Small engine repairs;
          (16) Welding shop; and
          (17) Other similar uses.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.315 REVIEW BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall review all known minor home occupations
to make sure they are abiding by §
154.314. If a minor home occupation is not abiding by §
154.314, the Building Inspector shall issue a stop order under §
154.999.
   (B)   All major home occupations shall be notified by the Building Inspector
of the provisions of §
154.310. If after 60 days, the major home occupant has not applied for a
special use permit, the Building Inspector shall issue a stop order under §
154.999.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
FEES
§ 154.320 FEES.
   (A)   In the event an owner-occupier of a single-family dwelling shall apply
for any variances to permit minor structural modifications where the fairly
projected costs of the modifications does not exceed the sum of $500, the
Zoning Administrator, together with the duly appointed trustee responsible for
oversight of Planning and Zoning shall have the right to waive all fees as may
be set forth herein below and to issue such variances without further action by
any Board being necessary. In the event the said Trustee shall be unavailable
to consider such application on a timely basis, the Village President shall
serve in his or her stead for all such purposes.
   (B)   For all applications by individual landowners for residential zoning
changes, zoning variances or Home Occupation requests, an application fee of
$150 shall be submitted with the application for the change, variance or
request.
   (C)   For all applications for non-residential zoning variances, special use
permits or zoning changes, an application fee of $450 shall be submitted with
the application for the request, provided that for all applications involving
properties in excess of one acre in size, an additional $20 per acre, or part
thereof, shall be submitted with the application.
   (D)   For all applications for preliminary plat approval of all
subdivisions, an application fee of $450 plus $20 per proposed lot shall be
submitted with the application for the request.
   (E)   For all applications for final plat approval of all subdivisions, an
application fee of $450 plus $20 per proposed lot shall be submitted with the
application for the request.
   (F)   In the event the Chairman of the Planning Commission or Zoning Board
of Appeals or the Village President shall determine that the application shall
require the review of either the Village Engineer or Village Attorney, the
applicant shall bear the expense of such review.
   (G)   In the event the Chairman of the Planning Commission or Zoning Board
of Appeals or the Village President shall determine that the application shall
require the attendance of either the Village Engineer or Village Attorney at
any meetings of the Plan Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals or special session
of the Village Board of Trustees, the applicant shall bear the expense of such.
attendance.
(Ord. passed 2-18-64; Am. Ord. 1998-O-9, passed 4-21-98; Am. Ord. 1998-O-17,
passed 9-1-98)
§ 154.321 TIME FOR APPLICATION.
   A written application must be filed with the Village Clerk in sufficient
time for the publishing of any notice of public hearing, or if no notice of
public hearing is required, the written application, and application fee, must
be filed not less than 10 days before the regular Plan Commission meeting.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   A person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with
or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $200. Each day such violation or failure
to comply is permitted to exist after notification thereof shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord., passed 2-18-64)
CHAPTER 154A: RECREATIONAL CANNABIS MERCANTILE REGULATIONS
Section
   
154A.01   Purpose; applicability
   
154A.02   Definitions
   
154A.03   Conditional use; review fee
   
154A.04   Recreational cannabis facility components
   
154A.05   Recreational cannabis craft grower
   
154A.06   Recreational cannabis cultivation center
   
154A.07   Recreational cannabis dispensing organization
   
154A.08   Recreational cannabis infuser organization
   
154A.09   Recreational cannabis processing organization
   
154A.10   Recreational cannabis transporting organization
   
154A.11   Additional requirements
   
154A.12   Co-location of cannabis business establishments
§ 154A.01 PURPOSE; APPLICABILITY.
   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to provide regulations
regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of recreational cannabis
occurring within the corporate limits of the Village of Winthrop Harbor,
Illinois. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (the Act), as it may be amended
from time-to-time, and regulations, promulgated thereunder, and the regulations
provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of
the state or local regulations shall apply.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154A.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall have the meanings set forth hereinbelow.
   RECREATIONAL CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A recreational cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
   RECREATIONAL CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   RECREATIONAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   RECREATIONAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   RECREATIONAL CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   RECREATIONAL CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility
operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
Department of Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds
to produce cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate
into a product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   RECREATIONAL CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business
establishment or a community college licensed under the Community College
Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154A.03 CONDITIONAL USE; REVIEW FEE.
   Recreational cannabis business establishment facilities, as defined herein,
requiring approval of a conditional use in the respective districts in which
they are requested shall be processed in accordance with §§
154.283,
154.284, and
154.285 of this title and §
154A.04. The fee charged by the village for reviewing any application for a
conditional use permit under this section shall be $5,000.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154A.04 RECREATIONAL CANNABIS FACILITY COMPONENTS.
   In determining compliance with §§
154.283,
154.284 and
154.285 (Conditional/Special Uses) of this title, the following components of
the recreational cannabis facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of
the circumstances affecting the particular property in the context of the
existing and intended future use of the properties:
   (A)   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
   (B)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan and building code compliance.
   (C)   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
   (D)   Anticipated parking demand based on §
154.185 and available private parking supply.
   (E)   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
   (F)   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
   (G)   Proposed signage plan.
   (H)   Compliance with all requirements provided in §§
154A.05,
154A.06,
154A.07,
154A.08,
154A.09, or
154A.10, as applicable.
   (I)   Compliance with the village's site plan review procedures as provided
for in §§
154.297 and
154.298.
   (J)   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with §§
154.283,
154.284 and
154.285.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154A.05 RECREATIONAL CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER.
   In those zoning districts in which a recreational cannabis craft grower may
be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, licensed child care facility, public park, public library,
recreational center or arcade other than one licensed to operate video gaming
terminals and which prohibits access to persons under age 21 years. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
   (C)   For purposes of determining required parking, recreational cannabis
craft grower shall be classified under §
154.185(B)(1), provided, however, that the village may require that additional
parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through §§
154A.03 and
154A.04.
   (D)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154A.06 RECREATIONAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER.
   In those zoning districts in which a recreational cannabis cultivation
center may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, licensed child care facility, public park, public library,
recreational center or arcade other than one licensed to operate video gaming
terminals and which prohibits access to persons under age 21 years. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
   (C)   For purposes of determining required parking, recreational cannabis
cultivation center shall be classified as a manufacturing use per §
154.185(B)(7), provided, however, that the village may require that additional
parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through § §
154A.03 and
154A.04.
   (D)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154A.07 RECREATIONAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which a recreational cannabis dispensing
organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, licensed child care facility, public park, public library,
recreational center or arcade other than one licensed to operate video gaming
terminals and which prohibits access to persons under age 21 years. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
   (C)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   Facility may be issued a permit to host on-site consumption of
cannabis if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
dispensing organization and smoke from the facility does not migrate into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. The security plan for the facility
required by §
154A.10 (Additional Requirements) shall also reflect adequate provisions to
respond to disruptive conduct and over-consumption. The on-site consumption
permit shall be reviewed annually and may be suspended or revoked by the Mayor
following not less than three days' notice and an evidentiary hearing, provided
that the permittee may appeal such action to the Village Board as a final
administrative remedy.
   (E)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facility shall be
classified under §
154.185(B)(1), provided, however, that the village may require that additional
parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through §§
154A.03 and
154A.04.
   (F)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154A.08 RECREATIONAL CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which a recreational cannabis infuser
organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, licensed child care facility, public park, public library,
recreational center or arcade other than one licensed to operate video gaming
terminals and which prohibits access to persons under age 21 years. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not conduct any retail sales.
   (C)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by an
infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the infusing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as a manufacturing use per §
154.185(B)(7), provided, however, that the village may require that additional
parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through §§
154A.03 and
154A.04.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154A.09 RECREATIONAL CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which a recreational cannabis processing
organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, licensed child care facility, public park, public library,
recreational center or arcade other than one licensed to operate video gaming
terminals and which prohibits access to persons under age 21 years. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not conduct any retail sales.
   (C)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
processing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the processing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as a manufacturing use per §
154.185(B)(7), provided, however, that the village may require that additional
parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through §§
154A.03 and
154A.04.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154A.10 RECREATIONAL CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which a recreational transporting organization
may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, licensed child care facility, public park, public library,
recreational center or arcade other than one licensed to operate video gaming
terminals and which prohibits access to persons under age 21 years. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not conduct any retail sales.
   (C)   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant
space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as a manufacturing use per §
154.185(B)(7), provided, however, that the village may require that additional
parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through §§
154A.03 and
154A.04.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154A.11 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Petitioner shall install building enhancements, such as security cameras,
lighting or other improvements, as set forth in the conditional use permit, to
ensure the safety of employees and customers of the recreational cannabis
business establishments, as well as its environs. Said improvements shall be
determined based on the specific characteristics of the floor plan for a
recreational cannabis business establishment and the site on which it is
located, consistent with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
§ 154A.12 CO-LOCATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The Village Board may approve the co-location of a recreational cannabis
dispensing organization with a recreational cannabis craft grower center or a
recreational cannabis infuser organization, or both, subject to the provisions
of the Act and the conditional use criteria of §§
154A.03 and
154A.04. In a co-location, the floor space requirements of §§
154A.07(C) and
154A.08(C) shall not apply but the co-located establishments shall be the sole
use of the tenant space.
(Ord. 2019-O-18, passed 10-15-19)
CHAPTER 155: FENCES
Section
   
155.01   Permit required
   
155.02   Location
   
155.03   Obstruction of view at intersection prohibited
   
155.04   Barbed wire, electrically charged fences
   
155.05   Permitted fences
   
155.06   Support posts and beams
   
155.07   Construction on easement
   
155.08   Concealed or underground fences or barriers
   
155.09   Decorative wooden fences
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No fence or planting screen shall be constructed without first obtaining a
permit from the Building Inspector. Applications for such permit shall include
the following information:
   (A)   Name and address of the property owner;
   (B)   A diagram of the property showing the location of the proposed fence;
   (C)   A description of the proposed fence including the height thereof; and
   (D)   For planting screens and similar barriers, a planting plan and list of
plant materials including their common name and size.
('79 Code, 1906(1)) (Ord. 1986-0-18, passed 8-8-86) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.02 LOCATION.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, fences, barriers and planting
screens may be located along the property lines in required yards or within the
buildable area of the lot, provided no fence, barrier or planting screen shall
be erected in the public right-of-way, except those fences erected for the
purpose of insuring public safety by a public body having proper authority.
('79 Code, § 1906(2)) (Ord. 1986-0-18, passed 8-8-86; Am. Ord. 1991-0-24,
passed 10-15-91) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.03 OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW AT INTERSECTION PROHIBITED.
   No fence or other barrier shall be constructed so as to block the view of
pedestrians and motorists at the intersections of public streets, private
streets, alleys, or driveways.
('79 Code, § 1906(3)) (Ord. 1986-0-18, passed 8-8-86) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 BARBED WIRE, ELECTRICALLY CHARGED FENCES.
   The use of barbed wire or electrically charged fence is prohibited on all
residential lots. The use of barbed wire and electrically charged fence may be
approved by the Building Inspector for lots other than residential lots, but
not below a height of seven feet. All such electrically charged fence shall be
clearly identified as such. As used in this section, the term BARBED WIRE shall
include all variants thereof, including that fencing known as “razor wire” and
“concertina wire.”
(‘79 Code, § 1906(4)) (Ord. 1986-0-18, passed 8-8-86; Am. Ord. 2013-O-14,
passed 8-20-13) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.05 PERMITTED FENCES.
   In any residential front yard or on a yard adjoining a street, a fence,
hedge, or similar barrier may be erected along the property line to a height of
no greater than four feet. In any interior side yard or in any rear yard, a
fence may be located along the property line within such yard to a height of no
greater than seven feet.
('79 Code, § 1906(5)) (Ord. 1986-0-18, passed 8-8-86) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.06 SUPPORT POSTS AND BEAMS.
   All fences shall be erected so that support posts and beams are inside the
fence or the fence-owner's side. The cosmetic side shall face the
neighborhood's property.
('79 Code, § 1906(6)) (Ord. 1986-0-18, passed 8-8-86) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07 CONSTRUCTION ON EASEMENT.
   Fences may be installed upon easements, including utility easements, upon
the same conditions and permits as fences may be installed generally; provided,
however, that by installing such a fence upon a utility or other easement, the
property owner or occupant remains responsible for the removal, repair and/or
reinstallation of any such fence which the village or public utility needs
removed or relocated in order to perform work on the easement.
   Fences may be installed upon easements, including utility easements, upon
the same conditions and permits as fences may be installed generally; provided,
however, that by installing such fence upon a utility or other easement, the
property owner or occupant remains responsible for the removal, repair, and/or
reinstallation of any such fence which the village or public utility needs
removed or relocated in order to perform work on the easement. Notwithstanding
the generality of the foregoing, in the event any applicant wishes to install a
fence on any protected overland flow path as defined in the Watershed
Development Ordinance and which is established through a deed or plat, no fence
shall be permitted or installed unless and until appropriate modifications to
said deed or plat restrictions for the stormwater management system are first
approved by the Stormwater Management Commission's duly designated Enforcement
Officer (EO). However, if a proposed fence is shown not to interfere with said
overland flow path, it may be permitted and approved (with proper permit
conditions) by the EO.
(‘79 Code, § 1906(7)) (Ord. 1986-0-18, passed 8-8-86; Am. Ord. 2001-O-27,
passed 11-20-01; Am. Ord. 2023-O-14, passed 7-11-23)
§ 155.08 CONCEALED OR UNDERGROUND FENCES OR BARRIERS.
   The use of a concealed or underground fence or barrier, which emits a radio
signal powered by a direct current voltage supply is permitted within the
village subject to the regulations provided herein.
   (A)   A radio signal fence or barrier, powered by a direct current voltage
supply, shall be permitted in the rear yard area of residential lots only,
provided that such fence or barrier does not extend beyond the farthest most
rear projection of the residential building on the lot. The fence or barrier
shall also be permitted in the side or front yard areas of a lot, only to the
extent that it provides a safety barrier around the entire lot, and only upon
approval by the Building Inspector, after application for the same.
   (B)   All such fences or barriers shall be set back a minimum of four feet
from any adjoining property line or public right-of-way.
   (C)   All such fences or barriers must have a direct current voltage back-up
system sufficient to maintain the maximum field strength for such fence or
barrier, for a minimum period of 12 hours, in the event of a power failure or
other accident which might cause a loss of voltage supply to such fence or
barrier. Upon receipt of reasonable notice of any loss of power to such fence
or barrier, any animal confined within the field of such fence or barrier must
be immediately brought within the residence, or otherwise confined.
   (D)   Prior to the beginning of construction or installation of any such
fence or barrier, and in addition to the requirements of §
155.01, an application must be filed with the Village Clerk, and authorization
granted by the Chief of the Police Department, after determination is made,
upon investigation by the Police Department, after determination is made, upon
investigation by the Police Department or animal control office, that any
animal sought to be confined within the field of such fence or barrier, may be
reasonably confined by such fence or barrier.
   (E)   Upon installation of such fence or barrier, signs, not less than eight
inches by eight inches, shall be required stating the property contains a
concealed or underground fence or barrier designed for the confinement of
animals and the signs shall be posted at intervals of not more than 45 feet
around the perimeter of the property line of the lot.
   (F)   Any animal sought to be confined within the field of the fence or
barrier must at all times be fitted with a collar designed for use in
conjunction with such fence or barrier.
      (1)   Each collar must be fitted to the animal's neck tight enough to
ensure that the contact points on the collar are in constant contact with the
animal's skin.
      (2)   The battery on each collar must be changed at least once every six
months, and the owner of the animal is required to keep a record of the changes
of the batteries and retain a copy of the record for inspection, upon request.
   (G)   (Reserved).
   (H)   In the event that a permit is granted for the installation of an
underground fence or barrier, pursuant to this section, and that subsequent to
the issuance of such permit additional animals or a different animal are sought
to be confined by such underground fence or barrier, application for a permit
to so confine the animals must be filed with the Village Clerk, and the animals
may not be so confined until authorization is granted by the Chief of Police,
after a determination is made upon investigation by the Police Department or
animal control officer, that such additional or different animals sought to be
so confined within the field of such fence or barrier, may be reasonably
confined by such fence or barrier.
   (I)   Failure to comply with divisions (A) through (H) may result in the
revocation of the permit for such fence or barrier.
('79 Code, § 1906(8)) (Ord. 1986-0-18, passed 8-8-86; Am. Ord. 1991-0-24,
passed 10-15-91; Am. Ord. 2007-O-13, passed 6-5-07)
§ 155.09 DECORATIVE WOODEN FENCES.
   Decorative wooden fences, such as split rail and the like, standing no more
than four feet high (when measured at the higher of the post or body of the
fence) may be set in post holes and backfilled with dirt, sand or other
granular fill, provided that the depth of the required post holes is at least ½
the height of the fence. To the extent that any national building code adopted
by the village, such as BOCA or CABO, ordinarily requires deeper postholes or
the setting of more posts in concrete, those provisions are expressly
superceded by this section.
(Ord. 2004-O-11, passed 6-15-04)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
('79 Code, § 1906(9)) (Ord. 1986-0-18, passed 8-8-86)
CHAPTER 156: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
   
156.01   WDO regulations adopted
   
156.02   NFIP regulations adopted
   
156.03   Conflict resolution
§ 156.01 WDO REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance, as most recently amended by
the County of Lake on October 13, 2020, is hereby adopted by reference and is
in full force and effect within the Village of Winthrop Harbor and is found in
its own compilation.
(Ord. 2016-O-4, passed 1-19-16; Am. Ord. 2020-O-10, passed 4-6-21)
§ 156.02 NFIP REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program, paragraph 60.3(d)
and the local Flood Insurance rate map panels attached to Ord. 2013-O-15 as
Exhibit A are hereby adopted by reference. A copy of Ord. 2013-O-15, and
Exhibit A thereto, is available for public inspection in the office of the
Village Clerk during normal business hours.
(Ord. 2013-O-15, passed 8-20-13)
§ 156.03 CONFLICT RESOLUTION.
   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the foregoing adopted
sets of regulations, the more restrictive regulation shall be deemed to be
applicable.
(Ord. 2013-O-15, passed 8-20-13)
CHAPTER 157: TRAILERS
Section
   
157.01   Definition
   
157.02   Maintaining trailer upon private or public property prohibited;
exception
   
157.03   Permit required
   
157.04   Parking on grass or dirt prohibited
   
157.05   Temporary construction storage trailer regulations
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY TRAILER. Any platform or structure equipped with wheels or
designed to be equipped with wheels, which can be pulled with a motor vehicle
and which is intended or used to store or move an item of personal property
other than a boat, including, without limitation, any car or truck trailer
intended for snowmobiles, motorcycles, and lawn tractors. This definition shall
not include any vehicle or structure which does not have TA, TB, or TC license
plates.
   BOAT TRAILER.  Any platform or structure equipped with wheels or designed to
be equipped with wheels which is intended or used to store or move a boat of
any size or configuration, including, without limitation, motor driven, sail
powered, jet-ski, pontoon, and all other hull and power designs. This
definition shall not include any vehicle or structure which does not have TA,
TB, or TC license plates.
   RECREATION VEHICLE. Any vehicle which has RV license plates issued by the
Illinois Secretary of State or the equivalent license plates issued by a sister
state.
   TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION STORAGE TRAILER. Any platform or structure, with or
without wheels, of an approximately cubic or rectilinear nature, closed on the
top, bottom and three sides, with a locking door on the fourth side, designed
and intended for use as temporary storage of personal property during periods
where remodeling of a structure is ongoing.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure which is suitable for living, sleeping, or
office purposes and is mounted on wheels, or is so designed or equipped that
wheels or other devices for moving the same can be affixed thereto, and which
can thus be transported either by its own power or by external power or effort.
This definition shall not include any vehicle operated upon fixed rails, nor
shall it include any vehicle or structure which does not have TA, TB, or TC
license plates.
(‘79 Code, § 1905(1)) (Am. Ord. 2002-O-47, passed 11-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-O-21,
passed 10-4-05; Am. Ord. 2011-O-4, passed 3-1-11)
§ 157.02 MAINTAINING TRAILER UPON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or allow any trailer to be upon private or
public property within the village, or to occupy any such trailer, but this
prohibition shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Any trailer which is in transit and which is occupied within the
village for no more than 2 consecutive days or for more than 30 days in the
aggregate during any 12-month period;
   (B)   Any trailer which is unoccupied and is not offered for lease; and
   (C)   Any trailer which is occupied by a nonpaying guest of the owner or
lawful occupant of private property upon which the same trailer is located for
an interval of not exceeding 15 days in any 1-year period.
('79 Code, § 1905(2)) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person occupying a camp car or trailer shall remove the wheels or any
similar transporting devices therefrom or otherwise permanently fix it to the
ground in a manner that would prevent the ready removal thereof, unless a
permit to do so is obtained from the Building Commissioner. Any such alteration
shall be construed as converting the trailer into a residence building subject
to the requirements of the zoning, building and other ordinances of the village
relating to the construction, use and occupancy of residence buildings and the
lot or plot of ground where such buildings are located.
('79 Code, § 1905(3)) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.04 PARKING ON GRASS OR DIRT PROHIBITED.
   All trailers, boat trailers, accessory trailers, or recreation vehicles (as
defined in §
157.01 above) in a residential-zoned district shall be parked behind an
imaginary line drawn parallel with the street and even with the rear of the
residence, or in the case of corner properties, also behind an imaginary line
drawn parallel with the side street and even with the closest corner of the
house to that side street, or they shall be parked on a driveway or other
paved, impermeable surface designed and maintained as required by §§
154.178 and
154.179 of this code.
(Ord. 2002-O-47, passed 11-19-02; Am. Ord. 2005-O-21, passed 10-4-05) Penalty,
see §
157.99
§ 157.05 TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION STORAGE TRAILER REGULATIONS.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, a temporary
construction storage trailer shall be allowed on a temporary basis in any
zoning district, subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   A permit from the Building Department shall be required;
   (B)   A permit shall be valid for 30 days from issuance, and may be renewed
for no more than one additional 30-day time period;
   (C)   The trailer shall be parked on an impervious surface, such as
concrete, asphalt or compacted gravel;
   (D)   The trailer shall not be parked in such a way as to block any
necessary sight lines, regulatory or street signs, or to pose a safety hazard
to motorists;
   (E)   The trailer shall be parked entirely upon private lands, and shall not
cross over onto any municipal property or road easement, and it shall not be
parked less than five feet from any adjoining or abutting property line;
   (F)   The trailer must be locked at all times when it is not being loaded or
emptied so as to prevent children or other persons from becoming trapped inside
it;
   (G)   The permit fee shall be as set by resolution or ordinance;
   (H)   The Director of Building, Planning and Zoning shall refuse to grant a
permit for any trailer that is not, at his or her sole discretion, in a safe
and sound condition.
(Ord. 2011-O-4, passed 3-1-11)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be punished upon conviction by a fine of not less than $20 and not more
than $200 for each offense. Each day upon which a violation occurs or continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
('79 Code, § 1905(4))
CHAPTER 158: SIGN CODE
Section
   
158.01   Authority and purpose
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   Prohibited signs
   
158.04   Exempt signs
   
158.05   Permitted signs; general provisions
   
158.06   Permitted signs in residential zoning districts
   
158.07   Permitted signs in non-residential zoning districts
   
158.08   Temporary signs
   
158.09   Construction specifications
   
158.10   Illumination
   
158.11   Maintenance
   
158.12   Administration
   
158.13   Enforcement
   
158.14   Variations and appeals
   
158.15   Fees
   
158.16   Effective date
 
   
158.99   Penalty
§ 158.01 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Authority.  This chapter is enacted by ordinance pursuant to the
police powers granted to the Village by the Illinois Compiled Statutes, ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-13-1, et seq.
   (B)   Purpose. All signs which are located within the corporate limits of
the village shall be located, constructed, erected, displayed, placed,
designed, altered, used, removed and maintained in accordance with the
provisions set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Legislative intent. The regulations of this chapter are intended to
coordinate the use, placement, physical dimensions, and design of all signs
within the village, as well as protect public health, safety and welfare, to
preserve and enhance the image of the community and to develop a satisfactory
visual appearance within the village by:
      (1)   Promoting the objectives, principles, and standards identified in
the Winthrop Harbor Comprehensive Plan and in this code for residential,
commercial and industrial development;
      (2)   Protecting the public from damage or injury caused by signs which
are poorly designed or maintained, and from distractions or hazards to
pedestrians or motorists caused by the indiscriminate placement or use of
signs;
      (3)   Maintaining property values by eliminating signs that are
incompatible with the surrounding land uses;
      (4)   Encouraging a viable economic environment through uniform control
of signs;
      (5)   Facilitating effective communication between the public and the
environment through signs which are appropriate for the type of street and site
upon which they are located;
      (6)   Encouraging quality sign design to promote a better visual
environment; and
      (7)   Enhancing the physical appearance of the village through a program
which ensures the removal of inadequately maintained, illegal and nonconforming
signs within a reasonable time period.
   (D)   Scope and application. The regulations set forth in this chapter shall
govern the location, construction, erection, display, placement, design,
structural or graphic alteration, use, removal and maintenance of all signs
within the village. It shall be unlawful to locate, construct, erect, display,
place, design, structurally or graphically alter, use, remove, relocate or
maintain any sign except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10)
§ 158.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEARANCE. The outward aspect visible to the public.
   ARCHITECTURAL CONCEPT. The basic aesthetic idea of buildings or structures,
including the site and landscape development which produces the architectural
character.
   ARCHITECTURAL STYLE. The characteristic form and detail, such as buildings
of a particular historic period.
   AWNING. A roof-like cover structure that is temporary or removable in
nature, generally made of cloth, plastic or other pliable material, and that
projects from part of a wall of a building in such a manner that the structure
may or may not be raised or retracted to a position against the building. Such
a structure may be installed for the purpose of providing shade or shielding a
doorway or window from the elements.
   BALLOON and/or BALLOON SIGN. See SIGN, INFLATABLE.
   BILLBOARD. See SIGN, OFF-SITE.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. As used in this chapter, the BUILDING COMMISSIONER
shall be that member of Village Staff assigned as the head of the Building
Department, irrespective of his or her formal title and any other assigned
duties or positions within the hierarchy of the village Staff.
   BUILDING DECORATION. The painting or affixing of a pattern, stripe, series
of stripes, or other design on a building in such a manner, including the use
of color, so as to create a contrast to the general character of the building’s
architectural style or to highlight or frame a signable wall area. Such a
BUILDING DECORATION shall be deemed a wall sign, and its surface area
calculated upon the entirety of the decoration if, and only if, the decoration
meets the definition of a GRAPHIC.
   BUILDING FRONT. That portion of a building where the primary building
entrance is located. Where more than one primary building entrance is provided,
the BUILDING FRONT shall be that portion of the building facing toward the
street to which the legal address has been assigned. Corner lots shall have
only one BUILDING FRONT. For the purposes of this definition, the terms
BUILDING FRONT and building facade shall be deemed synonymous.
   BULLETIN BOARD. A sign which identifies an institution or organization and
which is located on the premises of the institution or organization, which
contains the name and address of the institution or organization, the names of
individuals connected with it, and general announcements of events or
activities occurring on the premises, or similar messages. Such a sign may
contain a changeable copy board within the structure of the sign provided that
the board is enclosed behind a glass case or door.
   CANOPY. A structure, other than an awning, permanent in nature, of hood or
roof-like construction typically made of metal, wood or other non-pliable
material which may be free-standing or attached to a building, which is either
supported by frames which are attached to a wall of a building, or by frames
affixed to the ground, or both, for the purpose of providing shade, shelter or
protection from the elements.
   COMPATIBLE/COMPATIBILITY. Harmony in the appearance of a majority of
external design features, including form, colors, materials, textures, scale,
size, height and landscaping in the same vicinity.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Village of Winthrop Harbor Comprehensive Plan.
   DECORATIVE FACADE. A projection of the facade above the roof line of a
building wherein the projection serves no structural purpose or is not required
for structural support of any portion of the building. A parapet fire break
shall not be deemed a DECORATIVE FACADE.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any institution, organization, business, commercial, retail,
office, service or industrial activity that is the sole occupant of one or more
buildings; or any institution, organization, business, commercial, retail,
office, service or industrial activity that occupies a portion of a building
such that the activity is a separate and distinct business from the other
activities within the building.
   FLAG, ADVERTISING. Any sign typically constructed of, or printed or painted
on cloth, plastic, canvas, paper or other light material which contains any or
all of the following features, including but not limited to: distinctive
patterns, shapes, slogans, symbolic devices, or colors (solid or mixed), which
is typically designed to move when subject to pressure by the wind, and used
for attracting the attention of the public. See also SIGN, PENNANT.
   FLAG, ANCILLARY/CORPORATE. Any sign typically printed, painted or woven on
cloth, canvas, paper or other light material depicting any corporation or
institution through symbols, characters, colors, designs, letters, logos or
trademarks, typically designed to move when subject to pressure by the wind,
and which may be hung without a frame, or flown from a staff or flagpole.
   FLAG, OFFICIAL. Any sign typically printed, painted or woven on cloth,
canvas, paper or other light material depicting any nation, state, county,
municipality or other political subdivision, taxing body or unit of government
duly created by law, or any organization or activity officially designated by
such unit of government, through symbols, characters, colors, designs or
letters and numbers, typically designed to move when subject to pressure by the
wind, and which may be hung without a frame, or flown from a staff or flagpole.
   GRADE. Established or finished grade or elevation measured at the level of
the adjacent street.
   GRAND OPENING. An event or occasion marking the opening of a new retail or
service operation. A GRAND OPENING must occur at or near the beginning of an
operation and can only occur once during the lifetime of the operation. For the
purposes of this definition, however, if a change of ownership or of general
management of an operation occurs, an “under new ownership” or “under new
management” event or occasion, respectively, shall be deemed to be equivalent
to a GRAND OPENING.
   GRACE PERIOD. The period of time between the effective date of this chapter
and the date(s) upon which compliance with the provisions hereof is/are
required. This term shall further include any period of time between the
adoption of this chapter and its effective date if necessary to give context to
any clause or provision herein.
   GRAPHIC. One or more pictures or words intended to convey a recognizable
image of or to invite an inquiry into or purchase of a product or service. Does
not include mere stylized painting or other abstract decoration of a building
or other structure.
   GROUND CLEARANCE. The measurement from the bottom portion of a sign face to
grade. If the subject sign is built over or upon a planter, GROUND CLEARANCE
shall still be measured to the surrounding grade.
   LANDSCAPING. Plant materials, topography and other natural physical elements
combined in relation to one another and to man-made structures.
   LOGOGRAPH. A sign which consists of symbols, words, pictures, letters,
colors or other graphic elements arranged in a generally recognizable fashion
used to represent a particular trade, corporation, organization, profession or
business; including but not limited to corporate emblems, trademarks, logos and
barber poles. Any words or letters included in a LOGOGRAPH shall be incidental
to the graphic elements.
   LOT. A designated parcel of land identifiable as a single separate tract
which is generally established as part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been approved by the village and recorded or registered with the appropriate
county office, or the deed to which has been recorded or registered with the
appropriate county office, which is intended to be used, developed or built
upon as a unit, having its principal frontage upon a street or upon an official
approved place, and which is occupied or intended for occupancy by a use
permitted in this code. For the purposes of this definition, the terms lot of
record and zoning lot shall be deemed synonymous.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection
or junction.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot, or a reversed corner lot.
   LOT LINE. A recorded property boundary line of any single lot which divides
one lot from another lot or from a right-of-way, street or any public place.
For the purposes of this definition, the term property line shall be deemed
synonymous.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot abutting upon only one
street, the line separating such lot from such street; in the case of a double
frontage lot, each line separating from a street shall be considered a front
lot line; in the case of a corner lot, the shorter lot line separating such lot
from a street shall be considered to be the FRONT LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, REAR. That lot line which is parallel to and most distant from the
front lot line of the lot; provided, however, that in the case of an irregular,
triangular or pie-shaped lot, a line ten feet in length, entirely within the
lot, parallel to and at the maximum possible distance from the front lot line
shall be considered to be the REAR LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or a rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, THROUGH. Any interior lot which has a pair of lot lines along two
substantially parallel streets.
   MARQUEE. A structure, other than an awning, permanent in nature, of roof-
like construction made of metal, wood or other non-pliable material attached to
and extending from part of a wall of a building, but not supported by a frame
affixed to the ground.
   MONUMENT SIGN. See SIGN, GROUND.
   MULTIPLE BUSINESS CENTER. A development containing two or more indoor,
individual establishments or offices developed under one ownership, with an
integrated building and site arrangement and overall architectural concept,
which is primarily devoted to the provision of services, research or other non-
retail uses.
   OUTLOT. A lot of record located adjacent to or as part of a shopping center
where the primary means of access to the lot is provided through the ingress/
egress aisles of the shopping center parking facilities.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, organization, corporation
(public or private) or a receiver, trustee, conservator or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
   PLANTER. Any structure, object, or container constructed of brick, masonry,
wood, stones or other material set upon the ground and located at the base of a
sign or sign support pole(s) or pylon(s), designed for the purpose of holding
flowers, shrubs or other landscape materials.
   POLE. A post, pole, brace, standard or other upright member, usually made of
metal, used singly or in combination to structurally support a free-standing
sign. As modified by an adjective (e.g. flagpole, light pole), the term POLE
shall refer to the upright member used to support or display the object so
described.
   PREMISES. Within the boundaries of all property lines of a lot or outlot, or
within the confines of an establishment.
   PROPORTION. Balanced relationship of parts of a building, sign, landscape or
structure to each other and to the architectural concept as a whole.
   PUD. A planned unit development or planned development, as defined in the
Zoning Code.
   PYLON. A column used singly or in combination to structurally support a
free-standing sign that is substantially wider than a pole, and which consists
of a pole that has been “boxed in” with a metal pole cover or completely
concealed by surrounding masonry, stone or other secure, permanent material, or
a masonry or stone column.
   RACEWAY (ELECTRICAL). A boxed container, usually of metal, placed behind the
lettering of a sign which houses electrical wiring for the illumination of the
sign, and to which the sign or sign letters may be affixed.
   ROOF LINE. The top of the parapet of a building with a flat roof, the top
line of a building with a mansard roof, or the eave line of a building with a
gable, gambrel or hip roof.
   SCALE. The proportional relationship of the size of parts to one another and
to the human figure using a standard form of measurement.
   SETBACK. The horizontal distance between the building or structure or sign
(as may apply) and the property line.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A development containing two or more indoor, individual
establishments developed under one ownership, with an integrated building and
site arrangement and overall architectural concept, which is primarily devoted
to the sale of retail goods or provision of personal services directly to the
consumer. See also MULTIPLE BUSINESS CENTER.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular area established at the intersection of two
streets or a street and a driveway in which nothing is erected, planted, placed
or allowed to grow so as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists.
Such a triangle shall have legs of 25 feet along the rights-of-way when two
streets intersect and ten feet along the right-of-way and driveway when a
street and driveway intersect, measured along each curb or equivalent of the
intersecting streets or driveways and from the point where the curb lines or
extension thereto intersect.
   SIGN and/or SIGNAGE. Any surface, object, device, display, structure, fabric
or advertising symbol which may or may not contain words, figures, letters,
printing, pictures, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination, projected
images, forms shaped to resemble any human, animal, product or object, or
combinations thereof, which is calculated by any means to direct or attract the
attention of the public and used to advertise, announce, identify or display an
object, person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event or
location, which may be constructed from material of any kind or character
whatsoever, and placed on the ground or on any pole, building, structure, wall
or thing whatsoever. The term “placed,” as used in this definition, shall
include erecting, locating, constructing, posting, painting, printing, nailing,
tying, gluing, carving, molding, weaving or other fastening, attaching,
affixing or making visible in any manner whatsoever. For the purposes of this
definition, the use of terms including, but not limited to, attach, affix,
place, locate, display, erect and construct shall be deemed to be synonymous. A
SIGN shall be deemed to be an accessory use to a principal use.
   SIGN, A-FRAME. Any sign of a structural framework with steeply angled sides
meeting at the top like the sides of the letter A. Such signs may also be known
as sandwich board signs.
   SIGN, AWNING. Any sign that is painted, printed, woven or otherwise placed
on the outer surface of an awning in such a manner that the awning forms the
background surface of the sign.
   SIGN, BACKLIT AWNING/CANOPY/MARQUEE. Any awning, canopy or marquee that is
constructed substantially of transparent or translucent material and directly
illuminated artificially from the interior side of the material in such a
manner that the awning, canopy or marquee is made visible or luminous.
   SIGN, BANNER. Any sign printed or painted on cloth, plastic, paper or canvas
and used for attracting the attention of the public. All BANNER SIGNS shall be
deemed to be temporary signs.
   SIGN, BEACON LIGHT. An apparatus containing a light and/or reflector for
projecting a strong, far reaching beam of light in any direction, which is
designed so that the beam of light may generally move in an arc pattern. Such a
sign is used in the nature of advertisement, announcement or directions
calculated to attract the attention of the public located some distance away
from the location of the beacon. Such an apparatus may also be known as a beam
or as a searchlight.
   SIGN, CANOPY. Any sign that is fastened, affixed, painted, printed or
otherwise attached to the outer surface of a canopy in such a manner that the
canopy becomes the supporting structure or forms the background surface of the
sign, and which does not project more than six inches from the canopy surface.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. Any permanent sign that is predominantly or entirely
designed or used in such a manner that characters, letters or symbols can be
manually changed or re-arranged without altering the surface of the sign. The
term changeable copy board shall mean a changeable copy portion of a sign
subordinate in surface area and position to the principal surface area and
characteristics of the sign. For the purposes of this definition, the terms
reader board and attraction panel shall be deemed synonymous. See also SIGN,
PORTABLE. A CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN is not a bulletin board.
   SIGN, DIMENSIONAL. A type of wall sign which consists of three-dimensional
letter forms individually applied directly to a building or raceway.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. See SIGN, INSTRUCTIONAL.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER. Any sign which uses changing (also known as
traveling) lights or the electronic data display commonly known as pixels to
form a sign message or messages, or symbols or characters or pictures in motion
or animation, wherein the sequence of messages, characters and symbols and the
rate of change is electronically, electrically, or automatically programmed and
may be modified by electronic, electric, or automatic processes. For the
purposes of this chapter, a time and temperature sign shall not be defined as
an ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER SIGN.
   SIGN, ENTRANCE/EXIT. Any sign which is located on the premises that denotes
an entrance to or exit from parking facilities.
   SIGN, EXTERIOR. Any sign that is attached to an exterior wall or otherwise
located on the outside of a structure, or placed in a yard or upon vacant land.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on or in which such illumination is not
kept stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times, and shall
include blinking, strobing, flashing, animated, scintillating, alternating,
fading-in-and-out and other similar operations of lights or light sources. For
the purposes of this definition, a blinking warning light(s) on an antenna as
required by law shall not be deemed a FLASHING SIGN. For the purposes of this
chapter, a time and temperature sign or a beacon light sign shall not be
defined as FLASHING SIGNS.
   SIGN, FREE-STANDING. Any permanent sign not attached to a building;
primarily ground signs, pole signs and pylon signs.
   SIGN, GARAGE/YARD SALE—OFFSITE. Any sign used to advertise the sale of used,
unwanted household goods originating from the owners or occupants of the
specific residence where the sale occurs, other than a sign located on such
premises.
   SIGN, GARAGE/YARD SALE—ONSITE. Any sign used in residential zoning districts
to advertise the sale of used, unwanted household goods originating from the
specific residence where the sale occurs.
   SIGN, GRAND OPENING. Any sign used for a grand opening. All GRAND OPENING
SIGNS shall be deemed to be temporary signs.
   SIGN, GROUND. Any sign not supported by visible posts, poles, pylons,
uprights, braces, standards or other supports designed to raise the sign face
above the ground; where the bottom side of the sign is set completely on the
ground or mounted on a base that is permanently set on the ground that is at
least as wide as the bottom side of the sign. GROUND SIGNS are also commonly
known as monument signs.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign which is lit by artificial (usually electric)
lighting or luminous devices, whether by lights or devices on or within the
sign or directed toward the sign, including such chemical or physical
properties which cause or effect a reflection. This definition shall include
exterior strings of lights or exposed light bulbs. Signs which are made visible
due to ambient conditions arising from the use of adjacent artificial lighting,
such as general lighting from fixtures used primarily to illuminate parking
facilities, shall not be considered as ILLUMINATED SIGNS.
   SIGN, INFLATABLE. Any sign or inflatable device of more than two cubic feet
in capacity designed to be filled with air or a gas lighter than air, used
singly or in clusters, displayed to attract the attention of the public. This
definition shall include balloons and balloon signs.
   SIGN, INSTRUCTIONAL. Any sign which provides instructions to guide persons
to facilities intended to serve the public, including but not limited to those
signs stating that a business or establishment is open or closed; identifying
restrooms, public telephones, public walkways and other similar facilities; and
to provide directions or warnings, including but not limited to towing, no
trespassing, no dumping, no parking and no stopping or standing signs. Such
signs may also be known as directional signs.
   SIGN, INTERIOR. Any sign which is fully located within the interior of a
building and which is not readily or obviously visible from the exterior.
   SIGN, LEGAL NON-CONFORMING. Any sign lawfully existing on the effective date
of an ordinance, or an amendment thereto, which renders such sign non-
conforming because it does not conform to all the standards and regulations of
the adopted or amended ordinance.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. Any sign that is fastened, affixed, painted, printed or
otherwise attached to the outer surface of a marquee in such a manner that the
marquee becomes the supporting structure or forms the background surface of the
sign, and which does not project more than six inches from the marquee surface.
   SIGN, MENU BOARD. Any sign which directs attention to a restaurant menu as
an accessory structure to the restaurant with drive-through facilities. Such a
sign may be illuminated and freestanding, and contain a two-way communication
system for the purpose of food ordering only.
   SIGN, MOTOR VEHICLE. Any sign painted on or otherwise attached to a motor
vehicle (whether operable or inoperable), or on a trailer or similar movable
unit designed to be transported by a motor vehicle which is parked or stored on
a public right-of-way, public property or private property so as to be visible
from a public right-of-way for the primary purpose of displaying the sign in
order to advertise a product or service, or to attract the attention of the
public to a business or activity located on the property or off-site.
   SIGN, MOVING. Any sign that has any external or visible part or parts that
move, rotate, spin, swing or assume a non-stationary position by electrical or
mechanical means, or under normal wind currents. Flags shall not be deemed
MOVING SIGNS.
   SIGN, NEW DEVELOPMENT IDENTIFICATION. Any temporary sign which advertises a
new development or new subdivision within the corporate limits of the village
that has received approval to begin construction or is under active
construction.
   SIGN, NON-CONFORMING. Any existing sign which does not conform to all the
standards and regulations of this chapter.
   SIGN, OBSOLETE. Any sign which identifies an occupant or advertises a
business conducted, product sold or service rendered which is no longer
bonafide or operational. An OBSOLETE SIGN shall be deemed to be abandoned.
   SIGN, OFF-SITE. Any general outdoor advertising sign, which is designed to
advertise or direct attention to a business or activity conducted or a product,
commodity, service, real property, entertainment or facilities offered or sold
elsewhere than on the same lot or within the same building upon which the sign
is located or to which it is affixed, or which directs persons to a location
different from where the sign is installed. The term billboard shall be
included in this definition.
   SIGN, OUTLOT. Any free-standing sign located on the premises of an outlot or
any wall sign located upon an outlot building.
   SIGN, PENNANT. Any sign printed or painted on cloth, plastic, paper, canvas
or other light material with distinctive colors, patterns or symbolic devices,
typically designed to move when subject to pressure by the wind, and used for
attracting the attention of the public. A PENNANT SIGN is usually, but not
limited to being long, narrow and triangular in shape. For the purposes of this
chapter, the term and concept of PENNANT SIGNS shall include, but not be
limited to such devices as spinners, propellers, ribbons, streamers, garlands,
bunting and the like, which are mounted singly or in a chain-like series and/or
fastened or hung extended in such a manner that the device moves, rotates or
spins when subjected to pressure by the wind.
   SIGN, PERMANENT. Any pole, pylon, or ground sign which is substantially
anchored to the ground with concrete piers or foundations or the equivalent, or
any wall sign substantially attached to a building with bolts, rivets or the
equivalent which is of more than nominal value, or any awning, canopy, marquee
or under-canopy sign, or any other sign which by its definition and application
in this chapter is designed, constructed and intended to be so located or
affixed for an indefinite time into the future. Any banner, beacon light,
garage/yard sale, grand opening, inflatable, motor vehicle, pennant, political,
portable, real estate and special event sign shall not be considered as a
permanent sign, as well as any other sign which by its definition and
application in this chapter is designated as a temporary sign.
   SIGN, POLE. Any free-standing sign supported by one or more poles, which
pole(s) extend(s) from the ground or from an object on or in the ground.
   SIGN, POLITICAL. Any sign displayed in conjunction with an official election
or referendum, used on behalf of candidates for elected public office or to
advocate a position on referenda.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign designed to be moved from place to place which is
not securely attached to the ground or any other structure, such as a sign
mounted on a trailer or on a frame with wheels attached. Any such sign which
has had any features removed (such as wheels, frame hitch or other devices that
enable it to be moved) in order to attach it to the ground or any other
structure shall still be deemed to be a PORTABLE SIGN. Such signs may also be
known as movable signs. Although PORTABLE SIGNS often share features of
changeable copy signs, for the purposes of this chapter, this definition of
PORTABLE SIGN shall govern.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign other than a wall sign that is fastened, affixed
or attached directly to an outside wall of any building, generally but not
always perpendicular to the plane of the wall, which projects outward eight
inches or more from the face of the wall.
   SIGN, PUBLIC. Any sign required and erected by governmental bodies or
specifically authorized for a public purpose by any law, statute, ordinance or
other official action. Such signs shall include, but not be limited to: traffic
control signs; parking control signs; legal notices; railroad crossing signs;
warning, danger and temporary emergency signs; street name signs;
identification of public sites and facilities or of institutions; announcements
of community events as designated by the governmental body; and the like.
   SIGN, PYLON. Any free-standing sign supported by a single pylon, the width
of which is greater than 33.3% of the width of the bottom side of the sign
face, or supported by a maximum of two pylons, the combined width of which is
greater than 33.3% of the width of the bottom side of the sign face, and which
pylon(s) extend(s) from the ground or from an object on or in the ground.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. Any temporary sign used to offer the sale, lease,
sublease or rental of real property. A residential REAL ESTATE SIGN shall
specifically mean a real estate sign used for property located in a residential
zoning district. A commercial REAL ESTATE SIGN shall specifically mean a real
estate sign used for property located in non-residential zoning districts.
   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected, constructed or maintained wholly or partially
upon or above the roof line or over the roof of any building in any fashion.
This definition shall include signs upon penthouses or upon screening devices
for mechanical and HVAC equipment. In addition, the direct artificial
illumination of a roof or portion of a roof shall be deemed to transform the
roof into a roof sign. Any sign attached to a mansard roof shall be deemed to
be a wall sign.
   SIGN, SPECIAL EVENT. Any temporary sign used to promote a special event. For
the purposes of this definition, a SPECIAL EVENT SIGN shall be applicable to
the activities of a non-profit organization, and a special promotion sign shall
be applicable to the activities of a for-profit organization, although in
intent these two terms shall be deemed to be interchangeable.
   SIGN, SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION. Any permanent sign designed to identify a
parcel consisting of multiple lots, buildings or dwelling units. A residential
SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN is used for the stated purpose in residential
zoning districts. A non-residential SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN is used for
the stated purpose in non-residential zoning districts.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign designed, constructed or erected for display for a
limited and usually fixed duration of time. Such signs include but are not
limited to: banner, beacon light, garage/yard sale, grand opening, inflatable,
political, portable, real estate and special event signs, as well as any other
sign which by its definition and application in this chapter is designated as a
TEMPORARY SIGN.
   SIGN, TIME AND TEMPERATURE. Any sign or portion of a sign designed
specifically to display only the current time and/or temperature at that
location, employing a panel of changing light bulbs or visible elements to
display numerals as well as Fahrenheit, Centigrade, a.m., p.m. and degree
symbols in combination with the numerals as applicable.
   SIGN, UNDER-CANOPY. Any sign that is attached to the bottom side of the roof
portion of a canopy that is attached to a building, and positioned between the
building wall and the outermost edge of the canopy, designed solely for
pedestrian visibility and use.
   SIGN, VENDING MACHINE. Any permanent, non-flashing sign or signage on
vending machines, gasoline pumps, ice containers, automatic teller machines and
other similar machines.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign which is attached directly to the building wall and
which does not extend out more than eight inches from the face of the wall.
This definition shall include any architectural feature or design that includes
all or part of an exterior wall where the WALL SIGN is affixed, but only to the
extent that the same constitutes a graphic. See BUILDING DECORATION.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign that is applied upon, attached to, painted upon the
interior or exterior of, or located within 12 inches of the interior side of a
window or glass door, and/or is located within a building such that the sign is
intended to be viewed from the exterior of such building. Such signs shall not
be illuminated unless otherwise provided for.
   SIGN FACE. The surface or surfaces used for the display of a sign message as
seen from any one direction, including the area of copy and all borders, but
not the supports. Within this meaning, a single-face sign shall not have any
copy on its reverse side, or its reverse side is not visible; a double-faced
sign shall have the faces placed back-to-back; and a multi-faced sign has more
than two visible faces, or is erected in a V-shape or is otherwise deemed to be
irregular.
   SIGN FRIEZE. The signable wall area delineated by a clearly defined portion
of a building facade designed or designated for the placement of signage. The
terms sign course, sign board, sign panel and the like shall be considered as
synonymous.
   SIGNABLE WALL AREA. The entire area within a square or rectangle which
encompasses a single continuous portion of a building facade, unbroken by
windows, doors, arches, gables, stripes or other major architectural
interruptions or extensions of the building surface. SIGNABLE WALL AREAS shall
not extend above the roof line of the building or beyond the premises or
frontage of a particular establishment.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event, activity, sale or service or other occasion that is
temporary or seasonal in nature, is limited in duration and is not regularly
repeated within the same calendar year. For the purposes of this definition, a
special promotion or other similar occasion shall be deemed to be synonymous. A
slogan (e.g. the store with the best bargains) shall not be deemed a SPECIAL
EVENT.
   STANDARDS OF CONSISTENCY. The underlying characteristics of a common signage
plan which relates the building design to a unified color scheme; use of
materials; lettering or graphic style; consistent location of each sign on the
building; and consistent proportions, surface area and other measurements; as
well as which relates the design to a multiple-user development.
   SURFACE AREA OF A SIGN. The entire area within a single continuous square or
rectangular perimeter enclosing the extreme limit of a sign, but in no case
shall this perimeter pass through or between any adjacent elements of the same.
See also SIGN FACE.
   WALL. Any of the exterior sides of a building or structure upon which the
roof rests.
   WINDOW. An opening in the wall of a building for admission of light,
containing transparent or translucent material such as glass.
   WINDOW SURFACE AREA. The area of a building facade which is occupied by a
window(s) or glass door(s).
   ZONING DISTRICT, NON-RESIDENTIAL. Any current or newly-created non-
residential zoning district or any newly-created district predominantly
established for non-residential uses, as defined in the Zoning Code.
   ZONING DISTRICT, RESIDENTIAL. Any current or newly-created residential
zoning district as defined in the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10; Ord. 2013-O-2, passed 3-19-13)
§ 158.03 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are specifically and expressly prohibited from being
located, constructed, erected, displayed, placed, structurally or graphically
altered, used, maintained or relocated within the village unless otherwise
provided for in this chapter.
   (A)   Specific types of signs (as defined in §
158.02).
      (1)   Any a-frame sign except as specifically allowed by §
158.07(L) of this code.
      (2)   Any advertising flag, except as provided for grand openings.
      (3)   Any back-lit awning/canopy/marquee sign.
      (4)   Any electronic message center sign.
      (5)   Any flashing sign.
      (6)   Any inflatable sign.
      (7)   Any motor vehicle sign, except:
         (a)   Signs that are placed upon or behind the windshield or other
glass surfaces of a vehicle at a retailer of new or used automobiles and/or
trucks;
         (b)   Signs that are affixed to delivery vehicles for the primary
purpose of identifying them to the public; and
         (c)    Signs identifying the owner, address, telephone number and
profession of any business affixed by magnetic films or sheets, which do not
provide any further information.
      (8)   Any moving sign.
      (9)   Any obsolete sign.
      (10)   Any off-site sign.
      (11)   Any pennant sign.
      (12)   Any portable sign.
      (13)   Any projecting sign, except as provided for in §
158.07(F).
      (14)   Any roof sign, including any sign placed on a decorative facade
which extends above the roof line, except for mansard roof signs as provided
for in §
158.07(E)(10) and/or §
158.09(I).
      (15)   Any pylon sign, except as specifically permitted in §
158.07.
      (16)   Any pole sign, except as specifically permitted in §
158.07.
   (B)   Other signs.
      (1)   Any sign which is determined by the Building Commissioner and/or
the Chief of Police to constitute a traffic or pedestrian hazard by reason of
size, location, color, condition or type of illumination.
      (2)   Any sign which is located in or extends over public property or the
public right-of-way, except public signs as provided for herein.
      (3)   Any sign which resembles, simulates or imitates official traffic
control signs or devices.
      (4)   Any sign which obstructs traffic sight lines, sight triangles,
traffic control signals or public signs at street intersections or railroad
crossings.
      (5)   Any sign for which a permit is required, but for which no permit
was applied for or issued.
      (6)   Any sign painted on an exterior building wall, fascia, parapet,
chimney, on a fence or fence-type wall, retaining wall, bench, fence post,
refuse enclosure, utility box, storage shed, bus shelter, satellite dish,
antenna or other accessory structure, except wall signs as permitted elsewhere
in this chapter.
      (7)   Any sign attached, painted on, nailed, or otherwise affixed to
trees, other vegetation, landscaping, stones or natural materials.
      (8)   Any sign attached to a chimney, on a fence or fence-type wall,
retaining wall, bench, fence post, refuse enclosure, utility box, storage shed,
bus shelter, satellite dish, antenna or other accessory structure.
      (9)   Any sign attached, painted on, or otherwise affixed to tents,
except those that are specifically permitted in conjunction with a special
event approved by the Village Board.
      (10)   Any sign which uses exposed exterior neon tubing and/or exposed
light bulbs.
      (11)   Any exterior string of lights or exposed light bulbs, except those
that are temporarily displayed in conjunction with traditionally accepted
civic, patriotic or religious holidays for a duration not to exceed 60 days.
      (12)   Any sign painted on, attached, or otherwise affixed to flag poles
or light poles, except public signs and instructional signs attached to light
poles as permitted in §
158.04.
      (13)   Any additional or subsequent sign painted on, attached, or
otherwise affixed to poles or pylons of permitted signs.
      (14)   Any additional sign attached or otherwise affixed to the face of a
sign of which any portion extends beyond any edge of the sign.
      (15)   Any sign which emits sound, odor, or visible matter.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2017-O-4, passed 4-18-17)
§ 158.04 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs are exempt from the provisions of this chapter, except
for such instances where a sign listed herein is found to be unsafe or unlawful
as provided in §
158.13 or as otherwise provided for in this chapter. Such signs are defined as
exterior signs unless stated otherwise. Such signs shall not be illuminated
unless otherwise specifically provided for. Such signs are exempted from all
permit requirements herein, except that illuminated signs shall be subject to
application for and receipt of an electrical permit.
   (A)   Specific types of signs (as defined in §
158.02).
      (1)   Bulletin boards. Bulletin boards shall be exempt, provided that
they are located on the premises of charitable or religious institutions only,
and do not exceed 16 square feet in surface area. Bulletin boards may be
internally illuminated.
      (2)   Garage/yard sale signs. There are two separate sets of rules for
onsite and offsite garage sale signs. This is intended to provide a balance
between the rights of occupants of residential properties to sell unwanted
personal property whenever they wish with the interests of the community as a
whole in reducing roadside clutter and in treating all sellers of goods on a
fair and equitable basis.
         (a)   Garage/yard sale signs—onsite. Garage/yard sale signs—onsite
shall be exempt, provided that:
            1.   The sign shall not exceed four square feet in surface area if
the sign is singlefaced or eight square feet in surface area if the sign is
double-faced;
            2.   Only one sign shall be permitted for each lot where the
garage/yard sale is being held; provided, however, that one sign shall be
permitted along each side of a lot abutting a public street up to a maximum of
two signs per lot;
            3.   The sign shall not exceed five feet in height from grade;
            4.   The sign shall not be placed or erected for more than four
consecutive days at the location of the sale; and
            5.   The sign shall be placed on private property on the premises
of the sale and set back from any public right-of-way.
         (b)   Garage/yard sale signs—offsite. Garage/yard sale signs—offsite
shall be exempt, provided that:
            1.   Offsite display of such signs shall be permitted only during
the months of May, June, July, August and September;
            2.   From the first Thursday of each such month through the Sunday
immediately following, residents shall be permitted to advertise garage sales
using off-premises advertising signs;
            3.   No such sign may be placed on any village-owned property or
right-of-way, nor shall such sign be stapled, taped or affixed to any telephone
pole, streetlight pole or other publicly-owned structure;
            4.   No such sign may be placed on any property without the express
permission of the owner of the property;
            5.   No such sign shall exceed four square feet in size, including
the fronts and backs of any sign printed on both sides;
            6.   No such sign shall be placed in any location that presents a
hazard to traffic or pedestrians by blocking any reasonably necessary sight-
line, any safety device or any road sign;
            7.   The owner of any sign shall remove the sign not later than 5:
00 p.m. on the Sunday ending the advertising period.
      (3)   Instructional signs. Instructional signs shall be exempt, provided
that:
         (a)   Such signs shall not exceed two square feet in surface area and
shall be single-faced;
         (b)   Such signs shall not exceed eight feet in height from grade if
placed on walls or on light poles or other similar single standards, and
otherwise shall be constructed as free-standing signs which shall not exceed
six feet in height;
         (c)   Such signs shall contain no advertising, logos or other
promotional information;
         (d)   Such signs shall be located within the interior of any parking
lot or facility, or adjacent to a pedestrian walkway leading to the building or
use so identified, or otherwise set back a minimum of five feet from any
property line or service drive;
         (e)   Such signs shall not include those signs accessory to parking
areas or facilities as specifically provided for in §
158.07;
         (f)   Such signs shall not exceed two in number per lot or complex in
residential zoning districts;
         (g)   Such signs shall not exceed four in number per lot in non-
residential zoning districts; and
         (h)   The Building Commissioner may authorize additional signs of this
type if determined to be warranted.
      (4)   Interior signs. Interior signs shall be exempt except as otherwise
provided for in this chapter.
      (5)   Political signs. Political signs shall be exempt, provided that:
         (a)   There shall be no limit on the number of signs permitted for
each building, dwelling unit, or lot; provided, however, that the quantity of
signs displayed does not create a safety hazard to traffic by distracting
motorists or interfering with safe pedestrian flow, in which case the Chief of
Police and/or the Building Commissioner shall be authorized to require that the
number of signs be reasonably reduced or relocated;
         (b)   The signs may be installed no earlier than 30 days prior to the
election or referendum, and shall be removed within seven days after the
election or referendum;
         (c)   In a residential zoning district, the sign does not exceed 16
square feet in surface area if the sign is single-faced, or 32 square feet in
surface area if the sign is double-faced, and the signs do not obstruct traffic
sight lines, sight triangles, traffic control signals, or public signs at
street intersections or railroad crossings;
         (d)   In a non-residential zoning district, the sign does not exceed
16 square feet in surface area if the sign is single-faced, or 32 square feet
in surface area if the sign is double-faced;
         (e)   In a residential zoning district, the sign does not exceed four
feet in height from grade;
         (f)   In a non-residential zoning district, the sign does not exceed
six feet in height from grade; and
         (g)   The sign shall be placed on private property and set back from
any public right-of-way;
      (6)   Public signs. Public signs shall be exempt. Such signs may be
illuminated.
      (7)   Residential real estate signs. Residential real estate signs shall
be exempt, provided that:
         (a)   The sign content shall be limited to the words “For Sale”, “For
Lease”, “For Rent”, “Open House” or “Sold” or substantially similar
terminology; the name, address and phone number of the individual realtor or
agent; and the name and logo of the realtor’s franchise or brokering office;
         (b)   The sign is located upon the property that is offered for sale,
lease or rent, or has been sold;
         (c)   Only one sign shall be permitted for each building, dwelling
unit or lot;
         (d)   The sign shall be removed within seven days after the real
estate closing, or lease or rental transaction is completed, except that “Open
House” signs shall be erected and removed on the day of the event;
         (e)   The sign does not exceed six square feet in surface area if the
sign is single-faced, or 12 square feet in surface area if the sign is double-
faced.
         (f)   The sign does not exceed four feet in height from grade; and
         (g)   The sign shall be placed on private property and set back from
any public right-of-way.
      (8)   Vending machine signs. Vending machine signs shall be exempt,
provided that:
         (a)   Such signs shall indicate only the contents of such devices, the
pricing of the contents contained within, directional or instructional
information as to use, and other similar information;
         (b)   Signage shall be limited to the signage originally furnished
with the machine and shall relate to that product or item which is dispensed by
that machine;
         (c)   Logos, names or other promotional information shall be
considered the permitted sign;
         (d)   Such signs may be illuminated only on the front of the machine;
and
         (e)   Such signs shall be set back a minimum of five feet from any
public right-of-way;
      (9)   Window signs - residential zoning districts. Window signs in
residential zoning districts shall be permitted only as temporary signs and
shall be exempt, subject to the provisions of §
158.08.
      (10)   Window signs - non-residential zoning districts. Window signs in
nonresidential zoning districts shall be exempt, provided that:
         (a)   Location. Window signs may be permanently affixed or applied to
window glass of buildings where such windows or glass doors face the principal
street frontage(s). Such signs to be affixed shall consist of high-quality
design and copy, such as pre-cut decals, professionally-applied or painted copy
using permanent-type inks, paints or gilding, and the like. Such signs may be
affixed on the interior or the exterior surface of the glass;
         (b)   Surface area. The surface area of a permanent window sign shall
not exceed 50% of the window surface area, exclusive of superficial borders and
trim. This standard shall be consistent from window to window, or window pane
to window pane as the case may apply, where a building has more than one
qualifying window or window pane;
         (c)   Illumination. Window signs shall not be illuminated except those
that are instructional, those that state whether the business or establishment
is open or closed or those which state only the name of the business or
establishment;
         (d)   Portability of surface area. A permanent window sign shall be
permitted in addition to a permitted wall sign or projecting sign, provided
that the surface area of all window signs shall be counted towards the maximum
permitted surface area for the wall sign or projecting sign based on the
signable wall area or the linear footage of the building front of the building;
         (e)   Displays. The display of merchandise shall not be construed as a
window sign, nor any signs identifying or promoting merchandise or services, so
long as the signs are located more than 12 inches back from the interior
surface of the glass; and
         (f)   Temporary window signs.  A window sign that is not permanently
affixed to window glass shall be deemed a temporary sign and shall be subject
to the provisions of §
158.08.
   (B)   Other signs.
      (1)   Name plate signs. Name plate signs shall be exempt, provided that:
         (a)   They are wall signs not exceeding one square foot in surface
area indicating the name of the occupant of the premises in a residence, and
not exceeding two square feet in surface area indicating the name of the
occupant of the premises in a commercial or institutional establishment; and
         (b)   One sign shall be permitted for each building or dwelling unit,
except for businesses or institutions that have more than one entrance for the
general public, in which case one sign shall be permitted for each general
public entrance.
      (2)   Address signs. Address signs shall be exempt, provided that:
         (a)   They are wall signs not exceeding one square foot in surface
area for a residence, and not exceeding two square feet in surface area for a
commercial or institutional establishment, indicating the legal address of the
premises, limited to the display of address numerals and street name;
         (b)   A combination of a name plate sign and an address sign is
permitted, provided that such sign does not exceed two square feet in surface
area for a residence and does not exceed four square feet in surface area for a
commercial or institutional establishment; and
         (c)   One address sign shall be required for each building or dwelling
unit, except for businesses or institutions that have more than one entrance
for the general public, in which case one sign shall be permitted for each
general public entrance.
      (3)   Plaques. Plaques, memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and
date of erection, and similar types of identification and information when cut
into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other non-combustible
material shall be exempt.
      (4)   Occupational signs. Occupational signs shall be exempt, provided
that:
         (a)   They denote only the name and profession of an occupant in a
commercial or institutional building and do not exceed two square feet in
surface area;
         (b)   A combination of an address sign and an occupational sign is
permitted, provided that such sign does not exceed four square feet in surface
area. The use of an occupational sign shall forfeit the right to use a name
plate sign; and
         (c)   One sign shall be permitted for each building, except for
buildings that have more than one entrance for the general public, in which
case one sign shall be permitted for each general public entrance.
      (5)   Service entrance signs. Signs designating the service or delivery
entrance to a building or an individual unit in a building shall be exempt,
provided that:
         (a)   There shall be a limit of one service entrance sign per delivery
entrance to a building, or to an individual unit in a building;
         (b)   Such sign shall be a wall sign, or painted or decaled upon a
door;
         (c)   Such sign shall not exceed two square feet in surface area;
         (d)   Such sign shall not be illuminated;
         (e)   Such sign shall not be located above the height of the adjacent
door, or seven feet above the threshold, whichever is less; and
         (f)   Such sign shall contain information limited to the name and
address numerals of the individual tenant, and delivery instructions.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2013-O-2, passed 3-19-13)
§ 158.05 PERMITTED SIGNS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Signs shall be classified and permitted in accordance with the
regulations set forth in this chapter. This chapter shall be strictly
construed, wherein signs not specifically permitted shall be prohibited. The
classification for signs hereafter set forth shall be in accordance with the
various zoning districts designated now or hereafter established in the Zoning
Code. All such permitted signs shall require an application for and issuance of
a sign permit indicating that the sign conforms to the provisions of this
chapter before they may be erected.
   (B)   No portability of surface area. There shall be no portability of
unused permitted surface area for any sign to any other permitted sign unless
otherwise provided for in this chapter.
   (C)   PUD signage. The village may permit additional or different signage,
or require different standards for signage as part of final approval of a PUD
at the time of such approval.
   (D)   Calculation of the surface area of a sign. The total surface of a sign
shall be calculated based upon the perimeter of the sign as defined in “surface
area of a sign” in §
158.02. The width of a frame shall be included in the area of calculation.
Should letters or graphics be mounted directly on a wall or in any such way as
to be without a frame, the dimensions for calculating the square footage shall
be the area contained with the periphery formed around such letters or graphics
bounded by straight lines connecting the outermost points thereof. All sides of
a multi-faced sign structure shall be used in computing total surface area.
Signs 18 inches or less in depth that do not contain advertising or promotional
information on the sides that constitute such depth are considered flat surface
signs for the purpose of calculating gross square footage. Signs over 18 inches
in depth are considered multi-faced or irregular-shaped signs and shall be
computed on the basis of the sum of the square foot area of each surface face,
excluding the top and the bottom edges. When measuring the surface area of pole
or pylon signs, the surface area of poles or pylons supporting the sign shall
not be included in the total surface area, provided that no lettering,
graphics, logos or other copy is affixed to or displayed upon such supports.
   (E)   Calculation of sign height. The total sign height of a free-standing
sign shall be calculated to be the vertical distance of the sign structure
measured from grade to the highest point on the sign if it is on level or
essentially level ground, or at the middle point of the sign if it is located
on a slope. All measurements shall be made only upon private property under the
ownership of the permittee establishment. Under no circumstances shall
artificial slopes, berms or other artificial means of raising the base
elevation be created upon which signs are to be erected in order to increase
the effective height of the sign beyond that which is permitted by this
chapter. Height calculations where planters are employed shall begin at the
base, and not at the top of such planters.
   (F)   Private sign covenants. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent the owner or property manager of a shopping center, multiple business
center other similar multi-tenant or multi-user property, or other business,
industrial or institutional use to impose and enforce private sign covenants
upon such property which may be more restrictive or which may set higher
standards than the provisions of this chapter. However, in the case of conflict
between the village’s regulations and the private sign covenants, the more
restrictive regulations or the higher standards shall govern. The village shall
not be responsible for enforcement of private sign covenants.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10)
§ 158.06 PERMITTED SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The following signs shall be permitted within the village as accessory uses
in residential zoning districts, and shall be subject to all applicable
standards.
   (A)   Exempt signs as specified in §
158.04.
   (B)   Temporary signs as specified in §
158.08.
   (C)   Official flags.
   (D)   One identification sign, not to exceed 32 square feet in total surface
area if single-faced, or 45 square feet in total surface area if double-faced,
for the following uses: religious institution, private or public school and
facilities constructed and maintained by any taxing district. Such a sign shall
be erected solely for the purpose of displaying the name and address of the
institution and its activities or services. Such a sign may be illuminated,
shall not exceed six feet in height, and shall be set back a minimum of ten
feet from any lot line.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10)
§ 158.07 PERMITTED SIGNS IN NON-RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following signs shall be permitted within the village as accessory
uses in non-residential zoning districts, and shall be subject to all
applicable standards:
      (1)   Exempt signs as specified in §
158.04;
      (2)   Temporary signs as specified in §
158.08;
      (3)   Official flags; and
      (4)   Ancillary and/or corporate flags.
   (B)   General provisions. The standards in this section shall apply to all
general business, industrial and institutional establishments. Additional or
different regulations for certain types of non-residential uses are contained
in separate subsections of §
158.07 below.
   (C)   All signs shall relate to the name and/or use of the establishment,
facility, premises or center.
   (D)   Free-standing signs. free-standing signs shall be permitted, subject
to the following provisions.
      (1)   Number. There shall be a limit of one free-standing sign per lot,
shopping center, shopping center outlot or multiple business center, which
shall be erected for the purpose of identifying the establishment.
      (2)   Height. No ground sign shall exceed 12 feet in height from grade.
      (3)   Surface area. No ground sign shall exceed a maximum surface area of
50 square feet if single-faced or 100 square feet if double-faced.
      (4)   Setback. No ground sign shall be located closer than five feet to
any property line. Such signs shall be placed no closer than 18 feet to any
building or structure it identifies and shall not obscure any architectural
features of a building, such as entrances, display windows or decorative
cornices when viewed from any street.
      (5)   Illumination. Ground signs may be internally or externally
illuminated.
      (6)   Bonus provisions. A 15% bonus of square footage per face may be
added to the permitted surface area of a ground sign if a permanent help wanted
sign is incorporated into the overall sign design, or a 15% bonus of square
footage per face if a permanent leasing sign is incorporated into the overall
sign design, but only a maximum of a 25% bonus if both help wanted and leasing
signage are incorporated into the overall sign design, provided that such
square footage is used solely to advertise the availability of job openings, or
the availability of leasable space, respectively, and is not appropriated for
identification or promotional purposes. The use of this additional square
footage shall permanently forfeit the right to construct any separate temporary
or permanent help wanted or leasing signs on the property. Failure to comply
with these requirements shall justify an order from the village that the entire
sign be removed. Small, removable and professionally-designed temporary
shingle-style help wanted signs may be fastened to the bottom of free-standing
signs if compatible with the design of the sign.
      (7)   Tenant identification panels. Provision for identifying tenants
within a shopping center or multiple business center as part of the permitted
square footage of the sign identifying the shopping center or multiple business
center as a whole shall be permitted, provided that there shall be a limit of
two panels or divisions of the sign for such purposes.
      (8)   Menu board signs. In addition to the one permitted free-standing
sign, one free-standing single-faced menu board sign shall be permitted per lot
or outlot for restaurants with drive-through facilities, provided that such
sign does not exceed 24 square feet in surface area or eight feet in height.
Such sign may only be internally illuminated. Menu board signs shall be
permitted only in business zoning districts.
   (E)   Wall signs. Wall signs shall be permitted, subject to the following
provisions.
      (1)   Location. A wall sign shall be erected upon the wall of the
building facade having its principal frontage upon a public street. A wall sign
may be on the building facade other than the principal frontage if it faces a
nonresidential district and the total square footage does not exceed the total
permitted on the principal frontage. In no case shall a wall sign be permitted
that faces the side of any adjoining lot located in a residential zoning
district.
      (2)   Number. A maximum of one wall sign per establishment shall be
permitted, erected for the purpose of identifying the establishment, subject to
the following provisions.
         (a)   No wall signs shall be permitted for individual tenants in a
multi-story or multi-tenant office building, unless specifically authorized as
part of an approved PUD at the time of approval of the PUD.
         (b)   A corporate logo shall be permitted, but shall count as the
permitted wall sign if it is not incorporated into the wall sign. The square
footage of the logo shall be calculated along with the remainder of the sign
copy to determine the overall surface area of the sign.
      (3)   Height. The maximum height of a wall sign shall be 30 feet from
grade, or two stories, whichever is less, but in no case shall any portion of
such sign be extended above the roof line.
      (4)   Signable wall area. A wall sign shall be located within a selected
signable wall area.
      (5)   Surface area. The surface area of a wall sign shall not exceed one
and one-half square feet per one linear foot of building front, or 150 square
feet, whichever is less. In addition, the following provisions or additional
size limitations shall apply: signage shall not occupy more than 70% of the
width of the building front or the frontage of the establishment in a multi-
tenant building.
      (6)   Projection. No wall sign shall project from the building wall more
than 12 inches.
      (7)   Overhang. The edges of wall signs shall not overhang the top of
bays or equivalent architectural features of building facades.
      (8)   Illumination. Wall signs may be internally illuminated, and may
also be externally illuminated, consistent with the standards provided in §
158.10(C) of this code.
      (9)   Corner units, outlot buildings and corner buildings. Establishments
occupying a corner unit in a multi-tenant building, or single-tenant outlot
buildings or single-tenant free-standing buildings at a corner intersection of
two public streets shall be entitled to have two wall signs, one per wall, each
adhering to all of the other standards in this section, provided that:
         (a)   The primary wall sign shall be deemed to be that which is
located on the side of the unit or building that has the legal address or the
principal entrance for the general public;
         (b)    The surface area of the secondary wall sign shall not exceed
that of the primary wall sign, and that the same style, color and content is
used;
         (c)   The location of the secondary wall sign is not adjacent to any
residential dwelling unit or vacant property located in a residential zoning
district;
         (d)   Both sides of a corner unit in a multi-tenant building face a
public street. Signs facing a service drive, loading dock entrance or the like
shall be prohibited; and
         (e)    In the event that there is a conflict between the allowable
surface area of a sign based on the signable wall area for the primary wall
sign and that for the secondary sign, the computation of the maximum surface
area permitted for the total of both signs shall be as follows:
            1.   For corner units in a multi-tenant building: the smaller
signable wall area shall be used for computing the maximum permitted surface
area for each of the two signs; and
            2.   For single-tenant outlot buildings or single-tenant free-
standing buildings at a corner intersection of two public streets: the width of
the longest side of the building shall be used to compute the maximum surface
area permitted for the total of both signs, and that total surface area may be
allocated between the two permitted signs as long as all other standards of §
158.07 are met.
      (10)   Signs to be erected upon mansard roofs shall be treated as wall
signs, and shall be single-faced, subject to construction specifications as
listed in §
158.09. In no case shall the roof or a portion of the roof itself be
illuminated.
   (F)   Canopy, under-canopy, and marquee signs. Canopy, under-canopy and
marquee signs shall be permitted subject to the following provisions.
      (1)    Number. There shall be a limit of one canopy or one marquee sign
per lot or per establishment, erected for the purpose of identifying the
establishment, except as otherwise provided for in this section, and provided
that no wall signs are directed to the same street frontage.
      (2)   Location. Canopy/marquee signs may be mounted on the face (vertical
edges only) of the canopy/marquee proper. Signs shall not be erected above the
roof line of the canopy/marquee.
      (3)   Signable area. The signable area for canopy/marquee signs shall not
extend beyond the canopy/marquee face on which the sign is located. No sign or
portion of a sign shall exceed the borderline of any outer edge of the canopy/
marquee. No sign shall be placed on or over the roof of the canopy/marquee.
      (4)   Surface area. The surface area of a canopy/marquee sign shall not
exceed ten square feet or 30% of the signable wall area of a canopy/marquee
attached to the building front, whichever is greater. A multiple-bay canopy/
marquee, such as drive-up lanes at a financial institution, may have a sign for
each bay, provided that the sum total of all such signs does not exceed 30% of
the surface area of the face of the canopy/marquee that faces a public street
or private drive.
      (5)   Projection. No canopy/marquee sign shall project more than eight
inches from the canopy/marquee proper.
      (6)   Ground clearance. A clearance of eight feet shall be maintained
from the lowest point on the canopy/marquee to the grade or walkway under the
canopy/marquee.
      (7)   Material. Canopy/marquee signs shall be constructed of a non-
combustible type material.
      (8)   Illumination. Canopy/marquee signs may only be internally
illuminated, except for backlit canopy/marquee signs, which are prohibited.
      (9)   Under-canopy signs. In addition to the signage permitted in this
section, one under-canopy sign shall be permitted to be erected above a general
public entrance into the establishment in order to identify the establishment,
provided that:
         (a)   A minimum clearance of eight feet from the walkway is
maintained;
         (b)   Such signs shall be placed perpendicular to the building, with
the top edge of the sign fastened to the bottom edge of the canopy;
         (c)    Such signs shall not exceed three square feet in surface area
if the sign is single-faced or six square feet in surface area if the sign is
double faced;
         (d)   Such signs may only be internally illuminated; and
         (e)   A limit of one sign per establishment shall be permitted.
   (G)   Awning signs. Awning signs shall be permitted in order to identify the
establishment, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Location. Individual letters, words or symbols may be directly
affixed or applied to any surface of an awning, generally by painting, printing
or weaving. Signs shall not be constructed of or applied to other material
which are then fastened to the awning.
      (2)   Surface area. The surface area of an awning sign shall not exceed
20% of the exterior surface area of the awning.
      (3)   Ground clearance. A clearance of eight feet shall be maintained
from the lowest point on the Awning to the grade or walkway under the awning.
      (4)   Illumination. Awning signs shall not be illuminated.
      (5)   Portability of surface area. An awning sign shall be permitted in
addition to a permitted wall sign, provided that the surface area of all awning
signs shall be counted towards the maximum permitted surface area for the wall
sign based on the signable wall area of the building.
   (H)   Automobile service station signs. The following additional or
different sign requirements shall apply to automobile service stations.
      (1)   Free-standing signs.
         (a)   Number. There shall be a limit of one ground sign or pylon sign
on the property.
         (b)   Height. No ground sign shall exceed 12 feet in height from
grade. No pylon sign shall exceed 24 feet in height from grade.
         (c)   Surface area. A bonus of eight square feet per face may be added
to the permitted surface area to incorporate a changeable copy board into the
overall sign design for the purpose of providing gasoline pricing information,
provided that the changeable copy is limited to identification of the various
grades of fuel offered for sale and their associated prices. The use of this
additional square footage shall permanently forfeit the right to erect any
separate gasoline pricing signs on the property.
      (2)   Wall signs, number. A maximum of two wall signs per automobile
service station shall be permitted, placed on separate walls of the building,
provided that the signage shall otherwise conform to the provisions for wall
signs for corner units, outlot buildings or corner buildings as stated in §
158.07(E)(9). A logo counts as one of these permitted signs.
      (3)   Canopy signs, number. A maximum of two canopy signs per automobile
service station shall be permitted, placed on separate edges of the canopy,
provided that the canopy is free-standing. Signs shall not be erected above the
roof line of the canopy.
      (4)   Car wash buildings. If a detached car wash building is provided,
one additional wall sign shall be permitted on that building, provided that it
conforms to all other provisions for wall signs as stated in this section.
      (5)   Service bays. If an automobile service station is of the full-
service variety that contains bays in active use for the servicing of vehicles,
service bay identification signs providing directions or instructions to
customers visiting the establishment shall be permitted, provided that:
         (a)   Such signs shall contain no advertising, logos, or promotional
information;
         (b)   One identification sign shall be permitted for each service bay
entrance;
         (c)   Such signs shall be wall signs;
         (d)   Such signs shall not exceed six square feet in surface area;
         (e)   Such signs shall not extend above the roof line;
         (f)   Such signs shall not be illuminated; and
         (g)   Such signs shall otherwise conform to all other provisions for
wall signs as stated in this section.
      (6)   Service island instructional signs. Service island instructional
signs indicating the type of service or products offered and other
instructional information to assist customers in using the facility shall be
permitted, provided that:
         (a)   Such signs shall contain no advertising, logos or promotional
information;
         (b)   One service island instructional sign shall be permitted for
each approach for each island;
         (c)   Such signs may be placed upon fuel pumps or upon support posts
for free-standing canopies;
         (d)   Such signs shall not exceed five square feet in surface area;
         (e)   Such signs shall not be illuminated;
         (f)   Other fuel pump signage consistent with the exemptions stated in
§
158.04; and
         (g)   Special instructional signs mandated by units of government
(e.g. no smoking, licensing, inspection, and the like) shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Pump advertising signs. One sign, which may be single-faced or
double-faced, used for instructional or promotional purposes not to exceed two
square feet in surface area per face, shall be permitted on top of each fuel
pump machine.
   (I)   Parking lot entrance/exit and instructional signs. Certain signs
related to the use of parking facilities accessory to the main use of the
premises shall be permitted subject to the following requirements. Such signs
shall be permitted only in non-residential zoning districts.
      (1)   Entrance/exit signs. Such signs shall be limited to one sign for
each entrance/exit. Such signs shall not exceed three square feet in surface
area if the sign is single-faced or six square feet in surface area if the sign
is doublefaced. Such signs shall not exceed three feet in height, shall be set
back a minimum of five feet from any property line and may be illuminated. Such
signs shall be limited in content to directional arrows, a single logo and the
words “entrance” or “enter” or “exit” as applicable. Such signs shall not
contain advertising, names/addresses of the establishment or other promotional
information.
      (2)   Instructional signs. Signs designating the conditions of use or
identity of parking facilities shall be limited to two signs per parking
facility. Such signs shall not exceed three square feet in surface area if the
sign is single-faced or six square feet in surface area if the sign is double-
faced. Such signs shall not exceed three feet in height, shall be located
within the confines of the facility, and may be illuminated. Such signs shall
contain no advertising, logos or other promotional information.
   (J)   Changeable copy signs. Changeable copy signs shall be subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   Such signs shall be permitted only if incorporated into free-
standing signs used for identification of an establishment, and hereafter in
this section such features shall be referred to as changeable copy boards. Such
changeable copy boards may be permitted as part of wall signs only if erection
of a free-standing sign is prohibited.
      (2)   Changeable copy boards on a sign face shall be composed in
proportion to the entire sign face with a border or similar treatment around
the board to integrate it into the sign face.
      (3)   Changeable copy boards shall be limited to 33% of the permitted
surface area of a free-standing sign if the background upon which letters and
numerals are placed is white or ivory. Backgrounds shall not be yellow or any
other intense color. Such boards may occupy 40% of the permitted surface area
of a free-standing sign if the background is opaque (i.e. that only the letters
and numerals appear when the sign is backlit, and that any excess spaces after
the copy is applied are filled in with opaque blocks).
      (4)   Copy on a changeable copy board shall be of a single, easily
legible lettering style, and shall be of uniform color and size throughout the
board.
      (5)   Changeable copy boards may only be internally illuminated.
      (6)   No provisions herein shall abrogate any other requirements for
free-standing signs as provided for in this chapter.
   (K)   Seasonal signs. No sign that otherwise meets the requirements of this
section shall be deemed to be non-conforming hereto if it is designed to be
taken down and re-erected seasonally. (By way of example, an ice cream stand
may have a sign that otherwise conforms to this chapter, but the shop closes
for six months of the year due to climate conditions. The owner’s removal and
storage of the sign each year for six months does not make it a non-conforming
sign).
   (L)   Sandwich boards. Businesses located within the DT-1 zoning district
will be permitted to display “A” frame chalkboard signs commonly known as
“sandwich boards.” Such signs shall conform to the following regulations:
      (1)   No more than 1 A frame sign shall be allowed for each business;
      (2)   All A frame signs shall be placed immediately adjacent to, or in
front of, the business it is promoting;
      (3)   No sign shall be placed so as to block sight lines for vehicles;
      (4)   All A frame signs shall be placed more than 4 feet from the curb or
the edge of the pavement;
      (5)   A minimum of 4 feet of unobstructed sidewalk area is required for
pedestrian traffic, and if there is an inadequate width of sidewalk available,
no A frame sign shall be permitted;
      (6)   All A frame signs shall be maintained in good repair and neatly
painted;
      (7)   No attachments to A frame signs shall be permitted;
      (8)   Only chalk on chalkboard may be used to create messages on
permitted A frame signs;
      (9)   All A frame signs should be consistent in color with the DT-
1 zoning pallette;
      (10)   Messages on A frame signs should be used to directly promote the
businesses setting them out;
      (11)   A frame signs must not be displayed at any time that the business
using it is not open; and
      (12)   All A frame signs must be weighted and stable, and in the event of
heavy winds must be moved inside.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2017-1, passed 1-17-17; Am. Ord. 2017-
O-4, passed 4-18-17)
§ 158.08 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Purpose. Temporary signs shall be used only for the purpose of
announcing a special event or special promotion, unless otherwise provided for
in this chapter.
      (2)   Duration. Temporary signs, except for commercial real estate signs,
grand opening signs, new development identification signs and window signs, may
be displayed a maximum of two times per calendar year upon the same premises,
and the non-renewable period of duration shall not exceed 30 calendar days each
time. The two periods shall not be immediately sequential.
      (3)   Number. There shall be a maximum of one temporary sign upon the
same premises at any time, except for window signs and grand opening signs.
      (4)   Location. All temporary signs shall be erected only on the property
of the permittee, unless the permittee is a non-profit organization, and shall
be set back a minimum of five feet from any public right-of-way.
      (5)   Permit required. No person shall erect, construct, display, alter
or relocate any temporary sign, except window signs, without first obtaining a
permit. A permit shall be required each time a temporary sign is displayed.
      (6)   Limitations on applicants. Applicants for temporary signs shall be
limited to either for-profit or non-profit organizations. Permit fees (but not
permits) for non-profit organizations (e.g. civic groups, religious
institutions or charitable organizations) shall be waived, provided that
evidence of formal incorporation or tax-exempt status is shown at the time a
permit application is submitted.
      (7)   Illumination. No temporary sign shall be illuminated.
      (8)   Conformance to other provisions. Temporary signs shall otherwise
conform to all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Temporary sign types. Temporary signs shall be limited in use to the
following types of signs.
      (1)   Banner signs. Banner signs shall be subject to the following
provisions.
         (a)   Location. Banner signs shall be affixed only to building walls
in a non-projecting manner.
         (b)   Height. Banner signs shall not exceed the height of the first
floor of the building, or 12 feet from grade, whichever is greater.
         (c)   Surface area. Banner signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in
surface area, and shall only be single-faced.
      (2)   Commercial real estate signs. Such signs may be erected subject to
the following requirements. Such signs are permitted in all non-residential
zoning districts.
         (a)   Number. A maximum of one sign per street frontage is permitted.
         (b)   Height. Such signs shall not exceed eight feet in height from
grade.
         (c)   Surface area. Such signs shall have a maximum surface area of 32
square feet if single-faced, and 64 square feet if double-faced.
         (d)   Setback. Such signs shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from
any property line.
         (e)   Material. Such signs shall be made of good, weather-resistant,
low-maintenance material.
         (f)   Removal. Such signs shall be removed within ten days of the real
estate closing or the consummation of the lease transaction.
      (3)   Grand opening signs and opening signs shall be subject to the
following provisions.
         (a)   Types. Grand opening signs may be banner signs or advertising
flags.
         (b)   Placement. Grand opening signs may be displayed as follows.
            1.   Banner signs. Affixed only to building walls in a non-
projecting manner, and not exceeding the height of the first floor of the
building, or 12 feet from grade, whichever is greater.
            2.   Advertising flags. Affixed only to light poles in a parking
facility.
         (c)   Number. Grand opening signs shall be limited to two banner signs
and one advertising flag per light pole up to a limit of six light poles.
         (d)   Surface area. Grand opening signs shall be limited in size as
follows.
            1.   Banner signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in surface area,
and shall only be single-faced.
            2.   Advertising flags shall not exceed 15 square feet in surface
area and may be single or double-faced.
         (e)   Duration. Grand opening signs shall be displayed for a maximum
period of 30 calendar days, and may only be erected on or after the date of
issuance of a certificate of occupancy, with the first day of such period
commencing on the date of erection of the signs regardless of the date that the
establishment is first open to the general public thereafter.
         (f)   Under new ownership or under new management signs shall be
governed by the same time, place, and manner regulations as grand opening
signs.
      (4)   New development identification signs are subject to the following
provisions.
         (a)   All such signs shall be located only on the subject property and
shall identify only the development on the property.
         (b)    New development identification signs. Signs announcing the
impending construction of a project, limited to displaying the name of the
project, the developer, the architect, the financial institution providing the
financing, a phone number where more information may be obtained and a date
announcing the planned completion of the project may be erected as follows.
            1.   Residential zoning district. One sign per development on the
road frontage for each subdivision development, set back a minimum of ten feet
from any property line, with a maximum surface area of 96 square feet, limited
to single-faced pole or ground signs only, with a maximum height of ten feet,
and required to be removed within 30 days after 80% of the lots have been sold.
            2.   Non-residential zoning district. One sign per development on
the road frontage for each development site, set back a minimum of ten feet
from any property line, with a maximum surface area of 96 square feet, limited
to single-faced pole or ground signs only, with a maximum height of ten feet,
and required to be removed within 30 days after the initial certificate of
occupancy is issued.
         (c)   For sale/for lease signs. Signs announcing the availability of
lots or space for lease, limited to displaying the name of the project, the
developer, a phone number where more information may be obtained, a logo and
the nature of the property/amount of the space being offered may be erected as
follows.
            1.   Residential zoning district. One sign per single family
building site, set back a minimum of ten feet from any property line, with a
maximum surface area of 50 square feet if single-faced or 100 square feet if
double-faced, limited to pole or ground signs only, with a maximum height of 15
feet, and required to be removed within 30 days after the final certificate of
occupancy has been issued.
            2.   Non-residential zoning district. One sign per development on
the site, set back a minimum of ten feet from any property line, with a maximum
surface area of 100 square feet or 150 square feet if double-faced, limited to
pole or ground signs only, with a maximum height of 15 feet, and required to be
removed within 30 days after initial occupancy of the property if all the space
is sold or leased. Otherwise, for sale/for lease signs shall be reduced in size
to a maximum total of 32 square feet in size, whether single-faced or double-
faced, and to a maximum height of ten feet after 12 months has elapsed since
the initial certificate of occupancy was issued for any owner or lessee on the
property. Such reduced sign shall be removed within 30 days after all the space
is sold or leased. For ongoing lease activities, see §
158.07.
         (d)   Residential model area signs. Signs displayed for the purpose of
identifying model areas wherein dwelling units within a new subdivision or
rental complex are offered for sale or rent, as applicable, may be erected in
residential zoning districts as follows, and shall be removed within ten days
after the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the last unit to be
finished in the subdivision.
            1.   Sales office signs. One sign may be erected, set back a
minimum of five feet from any property line, with a maximum surface area of 20
square feet whether single-faced or double- faced, limited to wall, pole or
ground signs only, with a maximum height of ten feet, and with the contents
limited to the name of the development, the name of the developer, a logo,
appropriate telephone numbers and hours of operation. Such signs shall not be
illuminated.
            2.   Model unit signs. One sign for each model unit offered for
sale may be displayed, erected only in a front yard, with a maximum surface
area of four square feet, limited to single-faced pole or ground signs only,
with a maximum height of five feet and with the contents limited to the name of
the model unit. Such signs shall not be illuminated.
            3.   Model area parking lot entrance/exit signs. One sign for each
parking lot may be erected, set back a minimum of five feet from any property
line, with a maximum surface area of four square feet if single-faced or eight
square feet if double-faced, limited to pole or ground signs only, with a
maximum height of five feet and with the contents limited to the logo and name
of the subdivision, the word “parking” and a directional arrow. Such signs
shall not be illuminated.
            4.   Construction office signs. One sign for a construction office
or trailer on the property may be erected, set back a minimum of five feet from
any property line, with a maximum surface area of 20 square feet, limited to
single-faced pole, ground, or wall signs only, with a maximum height of eight
feet and with the contents limited to the logo and name of the subdivision, the
name of the developer and the words “construction office.” Such signs shall not
be illuminated.
      (5)   Special event signs. Special event signs may be of any type
enumerated in this section and subject to the specific provisions therein. In
addition, the following provisions shall apply.
         (a)   Free-standing signs shall also be permitted, provided they are
constructed of wood, metal or other durable material and reasonably supported
in or on the ground by adequate bracing.
         (b)   Height. Free-standing signs shall not exceed eight feet in
height from grade.
         (c)   Surface area. Free-standing signs shall not exceed 32 square
feet in surface area per face, and may be single-faced or double-faced.
         (d)   Free standing signs are to be removed within 24 hours of the
ending of the event.
      (6)   Window signs, non-residential zoning districts. Window signs in
nonresidential zoning districts shall be subject to the following provisions.
         (a)   Material. Such signs shall be constructed of paper, plastic,
cloth or other pliable material, or painted on windows with watercolor-type
paint in neatly-executed style. Soap or chalk type paint with a typically fuzzy
white appearance shall be prohibited.
         (b)   Location. Such signs shall be affixed only to the interior
surface of the glass and shall not be located on any windows above the first
floor of the building.
         (c)   Surface area. Such signs shall not exceed 50% of the window
surface area for each first floor window. Signs shall not be affixed in such a
manner that a safety hazard to customers or staff of the establishment is
created by the obstruction of vision. The Chief of Police shall be empowered to
require the removal or relocation of any such sign deemed to be a safety
hazard.
         (d)   Duration. Such signs shall be used only for special promotions,
shall be displayed for periods not to exceed 30 calendar days, and shall be
removed thereafter. Replacement signage may be displayed on a continuous basis
so long as all other provisions of this chapter and section are met.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10)
§ 158.09 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with applicable codes. All signs shall be constructed in
accordance with applicable provisions of building and electrical codes as
designated in the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code and/or any codes that are
adopted by reference therein.
   (B)   Obstruction to exits. No sign shall be erected, constructed or
maintained so as to obstruct any fire escape, required exit, window, door
opening or wall opening intended as a means of ingress or egress.
   (C)   Obstruction to ventilation. No sign shall be erected, constructed, or
maintained so as to interfere with any opening or window required for light or
ventilation.
   (D)   Clearance from electrical power lines and communications lines. All
signs shall be located in such a way that they maintain horizontal and vertical
clearance of all electrical power lines and communications lines in accordance
with the applicable provisions of this code. However, in no instance shall a
sign be erected or constructed within eight feet of any electrical power line,
conductor or service drop or any communications line, conductor or service
drop.
   (E)   Underground electrical service. All electrical service to free-
standing signs shall be underground.
   (F)   Clearance from surface and underground facilities. All signs and their
supporting structures shall maintain clearance and non-interference with all
surface and underground facilities and conduits for water, sewage, gas,
electricity or communications equipment or lines. In addition, the placement of
all signs and their supporting structures shall not interfere with natural or
artificial drainage of surface or underground water.
   (G)   Supports and other hardware. Primary supports for permanent signs
shall be of the same material or of a coloring the same as or compatible with
the sign material in order to harmonize with the sign. Secondary supports and
hardware, such as angle irons, braces, brackets and frame members shall be
concealed. Pieces of electrical hardware, such as raceways, switch boxes,
junction boxes and the like, shall be painted the same color as the support,
building or portion of the sign to which they are affixed (as the case may
apply) in order to conceal or subdue their appearance.
   (H)   Mansard roof signs. A sign located on a decorative mansard shall be
mounted directly vertical as a wall sign, with no visible angle-iron, guy
wires, braces or secondary supports. All hardware shall be concealed. Roof
signs that project out from the surface of the roof shall be enclosed on all
sides perpendicular to the sign face with a treatment to match the color,
texture, and appearance of the roof materials. No sign on a mansard roof shall
project from the building surface more than 12 inches as measured at the front
edge of the sign. Such signs shall be constructed of a non-combustible type
material.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10)
§ 158.10 ILLUMINATION.
   All signs permitted to be illuminated under the regulations of this chapter
shall be installed or applied such that signs shall meet the following
standards.
   (A)   Wall signs, if illuminated, may be illuminated internally or
externally.
      (1)    Internal illumination means that the light source is contained
within the sign and is visible only through a translucent surface, or is
otherwise recessed into the sign structure using concealed fixtures so that no
reflectors, extension arms, floodlights, light bulbs or fixtures are visible
from direct view. In the case of dimensional signs or individually applied
letters, numbers, logos or other copy, illumination may also be placed behind
the elements in outline form such that the light source is not visible from
direct view.
      (2)   Externally illuminated wall signs shall conform to the standards of
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   Ground signs, if illuminated internally, shall meet the same standards
as wall signs.
   (C)   Externally illuminated signs. Externally illuminated signs shall have
lighting fixtures designed and installed only in such a manner that the direct
rays of such lights shall be concentrated on the sign and be prevented from
causing a glare on or striking the street or nearby property, or the reflector
shall be provided with proper glass lenses concentrating the illumination upon
the area of the sign so as to prevent glare on the street or nearby property.
   (D)   Flashing signs and devices. Flashing signs and devices shall be
prohibited.
   (E)   Exposed neon tubing and exposed light bulbs shall be prohibited. Neon
tubing used for internal illumination shall be concealed behind translucent
covering.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2017-1, passed 1-17-17)
§ 158.11 MAINTENANCE.
   Maintenance of signs shall be required, according to the following
standards.
   (A)   The owner of a sign and the owner of the premises on which such sign
is located shall be jointly and severally liable to maintain such sign and its
illumination sources (if applicable) in neat and orderly condition, in good
repair, and in good working order at all times, to replace burnt-out light
bulbs, and to prevent the development of any rust, corrosion, rotting, peeling
of paint or other deterioration in the physical appearance, structural
integrity or safety of such sign.
   (B)   The owner of any sign regulated by this code shall be required to have
properly painted or finished all parts and supports of the sign when necessary,
unless the same are galvanized or otherwise treated to prevent rust or
deterioration.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit as “maintenance
or repair activities” the changing of a sign face by replacement or repainting
of copy with new copy, except for the changeable portion of changeable copy
signs.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10)
§ 158.12 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   Unless otherwise exempted in this chapter, no person, firm or
corporation shall erect, construct, locate, display, place, structurally or
graphically alter, relocate or maintain any sign without having first obtained
a valid permit for such sign, issued by the village with the approval of the
Building Commissioner as required in this chapter.
      (2)   An application for a permit under this chapter shall be made upon
forms provided by the village for this purpose, which are available at the
Building Department.
      (3)   No permit shall be required for repainting, cleaning, and other
normal maintenance or repair of a sign structure, provided that such
maintenance does not alter the original copy displayed on the sign face(s), the
surface area, height, or otherwise in any way render the sign non-conforming.
      (4)   Permits shall be required for the removal or demolition of
permanent signs.
      (5)   Illuminated signs shall require both a sign permit and an
electrical permit, provided that the Building Commissioner may waive the
requirement of an electrical permit where the sign operates on 110 VAC current,
is approved by Underwriter’s Laboratory and is plugged directly into a pre-
existing ground fault protected hard-wired 110 VAC duplex outlet.
      (6)   Each sign proposed to be erected shall require a separate permit.
      (7)   Property owners or tenants, or their sign companies or agents are
advised in the case of questions about these sign regulations to consult with
the Building Department in advance of submitting a permit application.
   (B)   Permit fees. Every applicant, before being granted a permit hereunder,
shall pay to the village a fee for each proposed sign or sign structure (e.g.
flagpole) as established by the fee schedule set forth in §
158.15.
   (C)   Submission requirements. Materials required to be submitted in order
to review a permit application shall be in accordance with administrative
procedures issued by the Building Department.
   (D)   Standards for review and approval. All sign permit applications will
be reviewed according to the physical parameters and design standards contained
in this chapter. Upon receipt of a complete application, staff will rule on the
permit within 21 business days.
      (1)   A sign permit will be issued if such application is complete,
accurate, conforms to the standards of this chapter and is in accordance with
all other applicable requirements of this code and village ordinances.
      (2)   If the work authorized under the permit has not been completed
within 90 days following the permit issue date, the permit shall become null
and void. If 90 days has elapsed, a new application shall be required if the
permittee desires to erect the sign originally contemplated. However, such
application shall be reviewed according to the standards of the village then in
force, and no rights to previous standards under which the original permit was
issued shall exist.
      (3)   If any sign is erected, altered or relocated without receipt of a
valid permit, the specified permit fees shall be doubled. However, such payment
shall not relieve any person of any requirement or penalties prescribed in this
chapter, nor shall the expense of erecting or the existence itself of the sign
be deemed a justifiable hardship warranting waiver of any requirement or
penalty, whether the sign is conforming or non-conforming. Failure to pay the
fees shall result in enforcement by the village to obtain the fees or the
removal of the sign. Nothing in this section shall be construed to mandate the
retroactive payment of sign permit fees that were not required prior to
adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10)
§ 158.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Obsolete signs. Any obsolete sign shall be removed by the owner, agent
or person having the beneficial use of the building, structure or lot upon
which such sign is located within ten days after the cessation of such business
or sale of such product that renders the sign obsolete. Such a sign shall be
deemed abandoned. If such sign is not removed within ten working days of being
abandoned, the Building Commissioner shall give written notification to the
owner or agent of such failure, and ten working days hence shall cause removal
of such sign. The expense incident thereto shall be paid by or be recoverable
from the owner of the building, structure or lot upon which the sign is
located; and the expense shall be a lien upon such premises until paid.
   (B)   Unsafe signs. Any unsafe sign shall be removed by the owner, agent or
person having the beneficial use of the building, structure, or lot upon which
such sign is located immediately after written notice is given by the village
to the owner, agent or person.
   (C)   Removal by village.
      (1)   If any obsolete or unsafe sign is not removed by the date
specified, the village shall give written notice to the owner, agent or person
having the beneficial interest in the building, structure or lot on which such
sign is located to require the removal within ten days. If such sign is not
removed or repaired (if applicable) after the conclusion of such ten-day
period, the Building Commissioner is hereby authorized to cause the sign to be
removed forthwith at the expense of the owner, agent or person having the
beneficial interest in the building, structure or lot on which such sign is
located.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the Building Commissioner
is authorized to cause any sign to be removed summarily and without notice, at
the sole expense of the owner, agent or person having the beneficial interest
in the building, structure, or lot on which such sign is located, whenever the
Building Commissioner determines that such sign is an immediate peril to
persons or property.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner shall refuse to issue any sign or
building permit to any permittee or owner who refuses to pay costs of any sign
removal or repair so assessed.
   (D)   Non-conforming signs (includes “grandfather” provisions).
      (1)   Legal non-conforming signs. Any sign lawfully existing as of the
date of the adoption of this chapter which does not conform to one or more of
the provisions contained herein shall be deemed to be a legal non-conforming
sign and may be continued in operation and maintained subject to the following
requirements.
         (a)   Legal non-conforming signs that are permanent signs.
            1.   The owner or beneficial user shall maintain such sign in good
condition and repair.
            2.   Such sign shall not be changed or altered in any manner,
except face changes (i.e. replacement or repainting of copy with new copy);
shall not be changed to any other nonconformity; shall not be expanded; shall
not be structurally altered to prolong its useful life; and shall not be moved
in whole or part to any other location where it would remain nonconforming.
            3.   Cosmetic-type non-conforming features (such as painting,
concealment of electrical fixtures with landscaping and the like) shall be
rendered conforming within 120 days after the date of adoption of this chapter,
weather permitting.
            4.   Burial of electrical drops providing electrical energy to
existing signs shall not be required until such time as the sign is otherwise
required to be brought into compliance with the current code provisions unless
the drops are allowed to deteriorate into a condition that is considered to
constitute a genuine danger to public safety.
         (b)   Legal non-conforming signs that are not permanent signs.
            1.   The owner or beneficial user shall maintain such sign in good
condition and repair.
            2.   Such sign shall not be changed or altered in any manner,
including face changes; shall not be changed to any other nonconformity; shall
not be expanded; shall not be structurally altered to prolong its useful life;
and shall not be moved in whole or part to any other location where it would
remain nonconforming.
            3.    Such sign shall not be continued in use after change of
occupancy of the business, owner or activity to which the sign pertains.
            4.   Such sign shall be removed within 120 days after the date of
adoption of this chapter.
            5.   Wall signs that have a nominal value of less than $150 shall
not be deemed to be permanent signs and shall be subject to the provisions of
this section. The Building Commissioner shall be solely responsible for setting
values for any and all such signs.
         (c)   Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter at any
time shall immediately terminate the right to maintain the existence of a legal
non-conforming sign.
         (d)   If during the grace period (defined in §
158.02) any legal non-conforming sign is damaged or destroyed, by any means
whatsoever, to the extent that its repair or replacement cost exceeds 50% of
its replacement cost as of the date it became non-conforming, the right to
maintain the existence of a legal non-conforming sign shall be immediately
terminated, and the sign may not be rebuilt or used thereafter. In the event
the damage or destruction of the legal non-conforming sign is less than 50% of
its replacement cost, the sign may be rebuilt to its original condition and may
continue to be displayed until the end of the grace period. The funds and
effort expended on such rebuilding, however, shall not be grounds to justify a
waiver of the requirement for the sign to conform, or to extend the time that
the sign may remain non-conforming.
         (e)   Normal maintenance of legal non-conforming signs, necessary non-
structural repairs and incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify
the non-conforming features of the sign, shall be permitted during the grace
period.
         (f)   Legal non-conforming signs that are permanent signs which are
within 10% of compliance of any height, surface area or location requirements,
and which otherwise conform to all other provisions of this chapter, shall be
deemed to be conforming for the purposes of these regulations without further
review.
      (2)   Non-conforming signs. Any sign not lawfully existing as of the date
of the adoption of this chapter which does not conform to the provisions
contained herein shall be deemed to be a non-conforming sign and shall be
removed within 30 days after the date of adoption of this chapter.
      (3)   Any legal non-conforming sign that has not been removed, altered,
or relocated by the applicable time frame stated herein so as to render it
conforming shall thereafter be deemed a non-conforming sign, and such sign
shall then be subject to removal by the village or to prosecution by the
village in the village’s Adjudication Court or in an applicable court of
jurisdiction to achieve its removal.
      (4)   Incentives. For property owners that convert non-conforming signs
into signs that meet all the requirements of this sign code prior to the
expiration of the grace period (as defined in §
158.02) or before the sign otherwise becomes non-conforming due to a change in
occupancy of the business, owner or activity, the following incentives shall be
provided.
         (a)   No building permit fees, as provided for in §
158.15 shall be assessed.
         (b)   For non-conforming pole and pylon signs that are converted to a
conforming ground sign, the sign surface area or height of the converted ground
sign may exceed the maximum height and surface area standards noted in the §
158.07 by up to 20%.
   (E)   Confiscated signs. Any signs in violation of any provision of this
chapter within the public right-of-way at any time may be removed by the
village and placed into temporary storage. Confiscated signs from the public
right-of-way will be released upon payment of a storage fee of $25 per sign,
payable to the village. The village shall not be responsible for loss of or
damage to any confiscated sign while in storage. The village shall not be
responsible to notify the owner or agent of the sign that it was confiscated
and placed into storage. The village shall not be obligated to keep the sign in
storage beyond five working days, after which time it may be discarded.
   (F)   Notice. The owner of the premises on which the sign is located shall
be the responsible party for the purpose of receiving notice under any section
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10)
§ 158.14 VARIATIONS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Variations.
      (1)   Generally. If specific standards or requirements contained in this
Chapter 158 preclude a proposed sign from being erected or modified, the
applicant may request a variation. Such a variation requires a public meeting
on the matter before the village's Planning and Zoning Board ("PZB").
      (2)   Procedure. A petitioner seeking a variation shall file in the
office of the Community Development Director a written petition requesting that
a meeting be convened and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds. At
the time of filing said petition, a sign variation review fee as found in §
158.15, shall be submitted. Upon receipt of such petition the Community
Development Director shall set a time and place for such meeting before the
Planning and Zoning Board, and give the petitioner notification thereof. The
petitioner shall be required to publish notice of the meeting in a newspaper of
general circulation in the community not more than 30, nor less than 15, days
prior to the scheduled meeting. No additional notice to adjoining or nearby
landowners is required as signs and variations are determined to affect all
persons within the community on an approximately equal basis. The village may,
but is not required, to also post the property with signage denoting the
pending petition.
      (3)   Meeting. At such meeting, the petitioner shall be given an
opportunity under oath to be heard and show why relief from such provisions
should be granted. Any citizen may also testify under oath for or against the
petition or any aspect thereof.
      (4)   Standards for consideration. When considering a petition for such a
variation, the PZB shall consider the general objectives outlined in §
158.01(C) as well as the standards for a variation outlined in §§
32.01 through
32.07 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code, including demonstration of a
hardship that was not created by the applicant, as to why the variation should
be granted.
      (5)   Motions.  At the conclusion of the PZB's discussion, the Chair
shall ask for a motion to approve or deny the petition. Following the second of
such a motion, the Chair shall request a roll call vote. The majority of the
members present shall prevail on such a motion.
      (6)   Additional terms and conditions. In granting such a request, the
PZB shall have the right to impose any and all such further conditions upon the
erection and display of such signs as they may deem to be in the best interests
of the village. Any such conditions shall be imposed by incorporation into the
motion described hereinabove.
      (7)   Limitations. If granted, a variation must be acted upon within six
months, as demonstrated by the issuance of a valid sign permit, or the
variation shall become null and void.
   (B)   Appeals. Appeals of the interpretation of this Chapter by the Building
Commissioner are heard by the Planning and Zoning Board ("PZB"), and all
hearings and determinations shall be subject to all provisions of §§
32.01 through
32.07 of the Winthrop Harbor Municipal Code.
   (C)   Finality. Decisions of the PZB made under the provisions of this
section shall be final administrative decisions, subject to review and appeal
pursuant to the provision of the Administrative Review Act, ILCS Ch. 735, Act
5, § 3-101 et seq.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2015-O-15, passed 5-19-15)
§ 158.15 FEES.
    The Building Commissioner shall assess and collect the following fees for
sign permits issued at any time after the effective date of this chapter,
consistent with the provisions hereof.
   (A)   Temporary signs: $30 per sign and per period of display.
   (B)   Permanent signs: 2% of the cost of the sign, including its
installation, base and all other component parts as well as the labor to
install it, with a minimum fee of $50.
   (C)   Variations: $100 per variation sought (paid to the Village Clerk at
the time of filing of the variation request).
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10)
§ 158.16 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter is adopted by an ordinance passed by the Village Board on
January 5, 2010. As this chapter implements a series of significant changes to
the permitted signs and affects existing signage within the village, the
effective date is established to be January 10, 2010. For this reason, the 120
day grace period defined in §
158.02 and referred to throughout this chapter shall run from January 1, 2010
through and including May 10, 2010.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2010-O-2, passed 1-19-10)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Nuisance declared. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter, the Village Board finds and declares that obsolete, abandoned,
structurally unsound and illegal non-conforming signs are a public nuisance.
   (B)   General penalty. Any person found to be in violation of any provision
of this chapter for which a specific penalty is not prescribed shall be fined
$100 upon conviction or assessment of guilt by an adjudication court.
   (C)   Continuing penalty. Each day that a sign is allowed to exist following
written notice to the landowner or occupant to remove or repair it constitutes
a separate violation and a continuing nuisance subject to the general penalty
provided for herein.
   (D)   Injunction. Because of the inherent danger of unsound signs and the
continuing nature of the nuisance caused by obsolete, abandoned and illegal
non-conforming signs, the village shall have the right to obtain an injunction
from the Circuit Court requiring the demolition of any sign, or any portion of
any sign, deemed to be existing in violation of this chapter upon a verified
petition stating the basis therefore.
   (E)   Attorney’s fees and costs. In any action involving this chapter
brought in the local adjudication court, in the Circuit Court or in any other
court, the village shall be entitled to recoup the entire amount of its
attorneys’ fees and costs from the party opposing the village and the same
shall be added to any judgment rendered in favor of the village.
(Ord. 2010-O-1, passed 1-5-10)
CHAPTER 159: GENERAL LANDSCAPE STANDARDS
Sections
   
159.001   General requirements
   
159.002   Installation of landscape
   
159.003   Street trees
   
159.004   Frontage buffer
   
159.005   Side and rear buffer
   
159.006   Interior parking lot landscape
   
159.007   Screening of open storage, refuse areas, and utility appurtenances
§ 159.001 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent. The landscape standards outlined in this section are designed
to meet the following set of goals.
      (1)   To provide for healthy, long-lived street trees within all public
ways to improve the appearance of streets and create a buffer between
pedestrian and vehicular travel lanes.
      (2)   To increase the compatibility of adjacent uses and minimize the
adverse impacts created by adjoining or neighboring uses.
      (3)   To promote the prudent use of water and energy resources by
achieving and maintaining sustainable, functional landscapes.
      (4)   To shade large expanses of pavement and reduce the urban heat
island effect.
   (B)   Applicability. Landscaping, trees, and buffers shall be installed with
all new development or redevelopment as required and detailed in this section.
      (1)   General compliance. Application of this section to existing uses
shall occur with the following developments.
         (a)   Any development of new or significant improvements to existing
parking lots, loading facilities, and driveways. Significant improvements
include new driveways, new spaces, new medians, new loading facilities, or
complete reorganization of the parking and aisles.
         (b)   Alteration to an existing principal or accessory structure that
results in a change of 60% or more in the structure's gross floor area.
         (c)   When compliance is triggered for existing parking lots,
landscape improvements shall take precedence over parking requirements.
         (d)   Single family homes are exempt from all requirements.
      (2)   Buffers. Landscape buffers are required according to the provisions
in this section with the following exceptions.
         (a)   Shared driveways. Buffers shall not be required along a property
line where a curb cut or aisle is shared between two adjoining lots.
         (b)   Points of access. Buffering is not required at driveways or
other points of access to a lot.
      (3)   Temporary uses. These provisions do not apply to temporary uses,
unless determined otherwise by the Director.
   (C)   Timing of planting. In any circumstances where the landscape cannot be
planted, whether due to adverse weather conditions or for other just cause,
funds shall be deposited by the Village Treasurer to cover installation costs.
      (1)   Amount of funds shall be determined by the village and shall be
sufficient to cover the costs of purchase and planting of such trees in
compliance of this chapter, in addition to any fees required by the current fee
schedule.
      (2)   Funds shall be placed in escrow for each applicable lot.
      (3)   If the landscape has not been installed within one year of
completion of all of other construction, the village may notify the lot owner
or developer of the amount in escrow. If the lot owner or developer causes the
landscape to be planted, the village may reimburse such lot owner from the
escrow up to the available amount for that lot.
      (4)   If after one year after the deposit of the funds into the escrow,
the landscape has not been installed by either the developer or lot owner, then
the village shall notify both the developer and the owner of the lot that if
the landscape is not planted within 30 days, the escrow will be forfeited to
the village. The village may then, at its election, use the funds to either
install the landscape on the lot or reserve the funds for other future
landscape.
(Ord. 2014-O-9, passed 5-20-14)
§ 159.002 INSTALLATION OF LANDSCAPE.
   (A)   Intent. The following provisions aid in ensuring that all required
landscaping is installed and maintained properly.
   (B)   Applicability. These provisions apply to landscape installation as
required by this section.
   (C)   General installation requirements. The installation of landscaping
shall adhere to the following standards.
      (1)   National standards. Best management practices and procedures
according to the nationally accepted standards shall be practiced.
         (a)   Installation. All landscaping and trees shall be installed in
conformance with the practices and procedures established by the most recent
edition of the American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60.1) as published by
the American Association of Nurserymen.
         (b)   Maintenance and protection. All landscaping and trees shall be
maintained according to the most recent edition of the American National
Standards Institute, including its provisions on pruning, fertilizing, support
systems, lighting protection, and safety.
Plant Material Type Minimum Size
Plant Material Type   Minimum Size
Deciduous Shade/Overstory Tree
   Single Trunk    2" caliper
   Multi Trunk     10' in height
Evergreen Tree        8' in height
Understory Tree       6' in height
Ornamental Tree       1.5" caliper
Shrubbery - Deciduous container class 5
Shrubbery - Evergreen container class 5
Groundcover           3" in height
Table (2)(C)1. Plant Material Size at Installation.
      (2)   Installation. Landscaping shall be fully installed prior to the
issuance of a certificate of completeness.
         (a)   If seasonal conditions preclude the complete installation, a
cash escrow or irrevocable letter of credit, equal to 1.5 times the
installation costs as estimated by a qualified professional shall be provided
to the village.
         (b)   Complete installation is required within nine months of the
issuance of the temporary certificate of completeness or occupancy permit or
the cash escrow or letter of credit may be forfeited.
      (3)   Plant size requirements. Plant material shall be sized according to
Table (2)(C)1. Plant Material Size at Installation at the time of installation,
unless otherwise noted in this section.
      (4)   Condition of landscape materials. The landscaping materials used
shall be:
         (a)   From a nursery certified by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture's Bureau of Environmental Programs.
         (b)   Healthy and hardy with a good root system.
         (c)   Grown in conditions similar to the site, including natural and
man-made conditions such as wind, salt, pollution, slope, water table, and soil
type. Protected from damage by grates, pavers, or other measures.
         (d)   Species native or naturalized to the Midwest Region, whenever
possible.
         (e)   Species that are not considered invasive in the area by the
Northeast Illinois Invasive Plant Partnership.
      (5)   Compost, mulch, and organic matter. Compost, mulch, and organic
matter may be utilized within the soil mix to reduce the need for fertilizers
and increase water retention.
      (6)   Establishment. All installed plant material shall be fully
maintained until established, including watering, fertilization, and
replacement as necessary.
   (D)   Ground plane vegetation. All unpaved areas shall be graded and covered
by one of the following.
      (1)   Planting beds.
         (a)   Planting beds may include shrubs, ornamental grasses, ground
cover, vines, annuals, or perennials.
         (b)   Nonliving materials, such as pine straw, colored gravel, or
mulch, are permitted for up to 50% of a bed area.
         (c)   Annual beds must be maintained seasonally, replanting as
necessary.
      (2)   Grass. Seeded, plugged, or sodded grass may be planted throughout
landscaped areas.
         (a)   Grass shall be established within 90 days of planting or the
area must be re-seeded, replugged, or re-sodded.
   (E)   Tree installations. Refer to the list of permitted tree types,
available at Village Hall.
      (1)   Tree measurement. New trees shall be measured at breast height 4.5
feet above grade, and noted as caliper inches throughout this chapter.
 
                                  Soil Surface Area (sq Permeable Surface Area
Tree Size  Soil Volume (cubic ft) ft) with 2.5' Soil    Requirement (sq ft)
                                  Depth
Very Small 181                    72 (approx. 8.5' x    25 (5' x 5')
                                  8.5')
Small      736                    294 (approx. 17' x    100 (10' x 10')
                                  17')
Medium     2852                   1141 (approx. 34' x   225 (15' x 15')
                                  34')
Large      6532                   2681 (approx. 50' x   400 (20' x 20')
                                  50')
Table (2)(E) 1. Minimum Recommended Soil Volumes and Permeable Area per Planted
Tree.
      (2)   Tree maintenance. Tree trimming, fertilization, and other similar
work shall be performed per American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A300.
      (3)   Species composition. Trees planted on a site shall be any
combination of permitted species with the following exceptions:
         (a)   One genus shall not comprise more than 30% of trees planted on a
site.
         (b)   One species shall not comprise more than 10% of trees planted on
a site.
         (c)   Exceptions to this provision may be granted by the Director.
      (4)   Tree size. All trees to be installed to meet the requirements of
this section shall be balled and burlapped and a minimum of two inch caliper at
the time of installation.
      (5)   Tree spacing.
         (a)   Trees shall be planted at least 30 feet and 20 feet apart for
large and medium trees, respectively.
         (b)   No trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than as
follows unless a permeable surface is provided:
            1.   Medium trees: three feet.
            2.   Large trees: four feet.
      (6)   Permeable surface. For each tree preserved or planted, a minimum
amount of permeable surface area is recommended, unless otherwise stated in
this chapter.
         (a)   At least 70% of the canopy limits of preserved trees should have
a permeable surface.
         (b)   Planted trees have a suggested minimum permeable area and soil
volume based upon tree size; refer to
Table (2)(E)1 for details.
         (c)   Permeable area for one tree cannot count toward that of another
tree.
      (7)   Structural soil. When the soil surface area (per
Table (2)(E)1) of a tree will extend below any pavement, structural soil is
required underneath that pavement. Structural soil is a medium that can be
compacted to pavement design and installation requirements while still
permitting root growth. It is a mixture of gap-graded gravels (made of crushed
stone), clay loam, and a hydrogel stabilizing agent to keep the mixture from
separating. It provides an integrated, root penetrable, high strength pavement
system that shifts design away from individual tree pits (source: Cornell
University, Urban Horticulture Institute).
   (F)   Irrigation systems. Permanent irrigation, beyond establishment, is
required and shall adhere to the following standards.
      (1)   All irrigation systems shall be designed to minimize the use of
water.
      (2)   Non residential landscape irrigation shall have an automatic clock-
activated permanent system.
      (3)   The irrigation system shall provide sufficient coverage to all
landscape areas.
      (4)   The irrigation system shall not spray or irrigate impervious
surfaces, including sidewalks, driveways, streets, and parking and loading
areas.
      (5)   All systems shall be equipped with a back-flow prevention device.
      (6)   All mechanical systems including controllers and back-flow
prevention devices shall be properly screened from public view.
   (G)   Maintenance of landscape. All landscaping shall be maintained in good
condition at all times to ensure a healthy and orderly appearance.
      (1)   All required landscape shall be maintained to adhere to all
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Replacing unhealthy landscaping.  Unhealthy landscaping shall be
replaced with healthy, live plants by the end of the next applicable growing
season. This includes all plant material that shows dead branches over a
minimum of 25% of the normal branching pattern.
      (3)   Maintenance responsibility. The owner is responsible for the
maintenance, repair, and replacement of all landscaping, screening, and curbing
required herein.
      (4)   Maintain quality and quantity. Maintenance shall preserve at least
the same quantity, quality, and screening effectiveness as initially installed.
      (5)   Fences and other barriers. Fences, walls, and other barriers shall
be maintained in good repair and free of rust, flaking paint, graffiti, and
broken or damaged parts.
      (6)   Tree topping. Tree topping is not permitted. When necessary, crown
reduction thinning or pruning is permitted. Refer to division (E)(3)(d) of this
section for clear branch height of street trees.
      (7)   Village inspection.  All landscaped areas regulated by this chapter
may be inspected by the village.
(Ord. 2014-O-9, passed 5-20-14)
§ 159.003 STREET TREES.
   (A)   Intent. To line all streets with a consistent and appropriate planting
of trees, to establish tree canopy for environmental benefit and a sense of
identity for all streets.
   (B)   Applicability. The requirements herein apply to development of all new
streets and to all development with 400 feet or more of existing street
frontage.
   (C)   Minimum street tree requirements. The following standards apply to the
installation of street trees.
      (1)   Exception. Street trees are not required on alleys. Refer to §
152.018(E).
      (2)   Clear branch height. Minimum clear branch height is six feet; in
commercial districts, minimum clear branch height is eight feet.
      (3)   Street tree type. Medium and large shade trees are permitted to be
installed as street trees. Refer to the list of permitted tree types available
at Village Hall.
      (4)   Street tree spacing. Street trees shall be planted as follows.
         (a)   Each lot is required to have one tree for every 40 feet of
street frontage with a minimum of one street tree per street frontage.
         (b)   Spacing.
            1.   Large trees must be spaced a minimum of 30 and a maximum of 60
feet on center.
            2.   Medium trees must be spaced a minimum of 20 and a maximum of
40 feet on center.
         (c)   Limited distance between curb and sidewalk. Where the distance
from the back of the curb to the edge of the right-of-way or property line is
less than nine feet with a sidewalk, applicant shall work with the Director to
determine the appropriate tree species.
            1.   The Director may waive the street tree requirement in spaces
less than nine feet.
            2.   The Director may require the tree planting to be placed
between the sidewalk and the development, either in the right-of-way if space
allows for a wide enough sidewalk or on the private property.
      (5)   Tree wells. In commercial districts, where the sidewalk extends
from the back of curb to the property line, tree wells shall be utilized.
         (a)   For tree wells adjacent to sidewalks five feet wide or less,
open pit is not permitted.
            1.   The opening must be covered with a tree grate or pervious
pavement.
            2.   The opening in a tree grate for the trunk must be expandable.
(Ord. 2014-O-9, passed 5-20-14)
§ 159.004 FRONTAGE BUFFER.
   (A)   Intent and applicability.
      (1)   Intent. To lessen the visual impact of vehicular areas visible from
the street.
      (2)   General applicability. Applies to properties in all districts where
a vehicular area is located adjacent to a right-of-way.
         (a)   Exceptions. Vehicular areas along alleys, except when a
residential district is located across the alley; single and two family
residences.
(B)   Frontage Buffer Requirements
(1)   Buffer Depth & Location note 1
Depth                7'   a
Location on the Site Between street facing lot line and
                     parking area note 2   b
(2)   Buffer Landscape Requirements
Uses & Materials     Uses and materials other than those indicated are
                     prohibited in the buffer
                     Medium or large shade tree required at least every 40';
Shade Trees          Locate on the street side of the fence; Spacing should
                     alternate with street trees
                     Required continuous hedge on street
Hedge                side of fence, between shade trees
                     and in front of vehicular areas   d
                     Individual shrubs with a minimum width of 24", spaced no
Hedge Composition    more than 36" on center, height maintained no more than
                     48".
Existing Vegetation  May be credited toward buffer area
(3)   Fence   e
Location             2' from back of curb of vehicular area
Materials            Steel or colored PVC; Masonry columns (maximum width 2'6")
                     and base (maximum 18" height) permitted
Minimum Height       3'
Maximum Height       4'
Colors               Black, gray, or dark green
Opacity              Minimum 30%; Maximum 60%
Gate/Opening         One gate permitted per street frontage; Opening width
                     maximum 6'
 
Notes:
1   This screening requirement does not prohibit the installation of or
provision for openings necessary for allowable access drives and walkways
connecting to the public sidewalk.
2   In front, corner, and rear yards (on a through lot), when the parking area
is located adjacent to any building on the lot, the buffer must be located so
that it aligns with or is behind the face of the adjacent building back to the
vehicular area. The area between the buffer and the lot line must be
landscaped.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4457.jpg]
Figure (4) 1 Frontage Buffer Plan and Section
(Ord. 2014-O-9, passed 5-20-14)
§ 159.005 SIDE AND REAR BUFFER.
   (A)   Intent and applicability.
      (1)   Intent. To minimize the impact that one zoning district may have on
a neighboring district and to provide a transition between districts.
      (2)   General applicability. Applies to all DT districts.
(B)   Side & Rear Buffer Requirements
(1)   Buffer Depth & Location
                     Varies based on the zoning district
Depth                of the lot and the adjacent lot; see
                     Table (5) 1.   a
Location on the Site Locate buffers on more intensively zoned lot; Buffer is
                     measured from side and rear lot lines.
(2)   Required Landscape Screen
Width                5' landscape screen in addition to any other buffer
                     landscaping   b
Location             Directly adjacent to the rear or side lot line
Hedge                Continuous double row of shrubs
                     required between shade trees   c
                     Double row of individual shrubs with a minimum width of
Hedge Composition    24", spaced no more than 36" on center; Mature height in
                     one year of 24"
Hedge Frequency      Minimum of 15 shrubs per 100' of lot line is required
Shade Trees          At least 1 medium or large shade
                     tree per every 40' within the buffer   d
(3)   Buffer Landscape Requirements
Uses and Materials   Uses and materials other than those indicated are
                     prohibited within the buffer
                     1 medium or large shade tree required per 2,000 square
Tree Canopy Coverage feet of buffer, excluding the area within the required
                     landscape screen
Existing Vegetation  May be credited toward buffer area
 
Notes:
1   The Director may reduce width of buffer, width of landscape screen, or
location of landscape screen based on existing landscaping and topography.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4459.jpg]
Figure (5) 1 Landscape Screen within Light Side & Rear Buffer
Buffer Requirements between Downtown Districts
                           Buffer Required by these Districts
                           DT 1         DT 2         DT 3         DT 4
DT 1                       not required not required not required not required
DT 2                       not required not required not required not required
DT 3                       not required not required not required not required
DT 4                       10'          10'          not required not required
Any existing single family 10'          10'          10'          10'
 
Table (5)1. Side & Rear Buffer Requirements between District.
(Ord. 2014-O-9, passed 5-20-14)
§ 159.006 INTERIOR PARKING LOT LANDSCAPE.
   (A)   Intent and applicability.
      (1)   Intent. To provide shade, minimize paving and associated stormwater
runoff, and improve the aesthetic look of parking lots.
      (2)   General applicability. All open-air, off-street parking lots in all
districts.
      (3)   Other internal parking lot areas. Internal areas not dedicated to
parking, loading, or drives shall be landscaped with a minimum of one medium or
large shade tree for the first 150 square feet and one medium or large shade
tree for every 650' thereafter. Paved areas with hatched striping where
vehicles are not permitted, shall be landscaped and may contain a walkway.
      (4)   Existing vegetation. Existing vegetation may be credited toward
these requirements.
(B)   Interior Parking Lot Landscape Requirements note 1
(1)   Landscape Island Requirements   a
                                      Terminal ends note 2 of free standing
                                      rows or bays of parking; After every
Required Island Locations             ninth parking space for rows of parking
                                      greater than 8 spaces in length note
                                      3   b
                                      9'; Islands less than 9' must utilize
                                      structural soil under any paved surface
Minimum Width                         and install an aeration system or utilize
                                      permeable pavement within the tree's
                                      critical root zone (for large trees: a 5'
                                      radius around the tree)
Required Trees Within Islands         Minimum of 1 medium or large shade
                                      tree per island   c
(2)   Landscape Median Requirements   d
Required Median Location              Required in each free-standing bay of
                                      parking along the length of the bay
                                      5'; medians less than 9' and with
                                      required trees must utilize structural
                                      soil under any paved surface and install
Minimum Width                         an aeration system or utilize permeable
                                      pavement within the tree's critical root
                                      zone (for large trees: a 5' radius around
                                      the tree)
(3)   Tree Requirements
                                      Each parking space must be located within
                                      50' of a tree planted within parking lot
                                      interior
Requirements per Parking Space note 4 Minimum of 1 shade tree must be planted
                                      within parking lot interior or within 4'
                                      of parking lot's edge for every 3 parking
                                      spaces
                                      Within 20 years of tree installation, 30%
Tree Shade Goal                       of the interior of the parking lot should
                                      be shaded by tree canopy. Refer to Table
                                      (E)(6)1 for calculation.
 
Notes:
1   Parking lot interior is defined as the area dedicated to parking on a given
parcel as measured from edge of pavement to edge of pavement.
2   Freestanding rows or bays of parking are those not abutting the parking lot
perimeter or building face, and may have a single or double row of parking.
3   There shall be no more than eight continuous parking spaces in a row
without a landscape island.
4   Trees within a designated buffer area may not be utilized to meet these
requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4465.jpg]
Figure (6) 1 Interior Parking Lot Landscaping
 
Tree Size  Estimated Canopy at Maturity (sq Estimated Height at Maturity (ft)
           ft)
Very Small 150                              under 15'
Small      400                              15'-25'
Medium     900                              25'-40'
Large      1600                             40'+
 
Table (6)1. Estimated Canopy and Height at Maturity.
(Ord. 2014-O-9, passed 5-20-14)
§ 159.007 SCREENING OF OPEN STORAGE, REFUSE AREAS, AND UTILITY APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   Intent and applicability.
      (1)   Intent. To reduce the visibility of open storage, refuse areas, and
utility appurtenances from public areas and adjacent properties.
      (2)   General applicability. All dumpsters, open storage, refuse areas,
and utility appurtenances in all districts.
(B)   Screening of Open Storage, Refuse Areas, & Utility Appurtenances
(1)   Open Storage & Refuse Area Screening Requirements
Location on Not permitted in front or corner side yards
the Site
Opaque
Screen Wall Required around 3 sides of the dumpster and trash bin area   a
note 1
            Height shall be the higher of the following:
Screen Wall 1.   6'
Height      2.   Height of use to be screened
            3.   Height as determined by Village to accomplish objective of the screen
Visible     Openings visible from the public way or adjacent properties must be furnished
Openings    with opaque gates   b
Landscape   If refuse area is located within larger paved area, such as a parking lot,
Requirement landscape islands must be located on 3 sides of the area, with at least 1
            medium or large shade tree in at least 1 of the landscape areas note 2   c
(2)   Utility Appurtenance Screening Requirements
Large
Private     Shall be fenced with opaque wood or brick-faced masonry on all sides facing
Mechanical  right-of-way
Equipment
note 3
Small
Private     Shall have landscape screening and a shrub bed containing shrubs spaced no
Mechanical  more than 36" on center
Equipment
note 4
 
Notes:
1   Vertical structured barrier to visibility at all times such as a fence or
wall.
2   This tree, if located within 50' of a parking space, may be utilized to
meet the minimum shade requirements.
3   Large private mechanical equipment is equal to or greater than 4' in
height.
4   Small private mechanical equipment is smaller than 4' in height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fb2bdd6cfc589bd97b4494923ffbb0d9420abd6a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4472.jpg]
Figure (7) 1 Screening of Open Storage & Refuse Areas
(Ord. 2014-O-9, passed 5-20-14)
CHAPTER 160: SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMITTING
Section
   
160.01   Purpose and scope
   
160.02   Definitions
   
160.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities
§ 160.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Act.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 18-O-9, passed 7-3-18)
§ 160.02 DEFINITIONS.
   "The Act" shall mean Public Act 100-0585, known as the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. All other terms shall have the same meaning ascribed
to them as by the Act.
(Ord. 18-O-9, passed 7-3-18)
§ 160.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(9) regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to
zoning review or approval if they are collocated:
      (1)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
      (2)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain a permit from the village
prior to collocating any small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the village, together with the village's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer
for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as it is
proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent written evidence of the
consent of the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days following the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the 90th day after
submission of the complete application, or the 10th day after the receipt of
the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the permit application within
the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the 120th day after
submission of the complete application, or the 10th day after the receipt of
the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the permit application within
the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   1.   The village shall deny an application which does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
            2.   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances,
or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            3.   The village shall document the basis for a denial, including
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant concurrent with the notice
of application denial.
            4.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of the denial shall require
the applicant to submit a new application, with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the village's review period.
            5.   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
            6.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the village for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole
by the applicant. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant
shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application. 
         (a)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the village's permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the village.
         (b)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends
the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
village; or
         (b)   A local, state, or federal disaster declaration, or similar
emergency, that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications. 
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant's
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
5 years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         (b)   If the Act is repealed, as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair, and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition
and good repair, and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents, or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         1.   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         2.   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
         3.   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         4.   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC.
         5.   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous division. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   1.   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution
or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole
or the electric supply zone of the pole.
         2.   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         3.   For purposes of this division, the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a village
ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate placements. 
         (a)   Except as provided in this collocate requirements and conditions
section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocation small
wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility poles,
or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole.
However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which
the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure
on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate location and structure
does not impose technical limits or additional material costs as determined by
the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village,
the applicant shall provide written certification describing the property
rights, technical limits, or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this division.
      (8)   Height limitations. 
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than 10 feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village, provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   45 feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms, and
conditions set forth in the Village of Winthrop Harbor Zoning Ordinance.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and
a private property owner that concern design or construction standards
applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-
of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable, and
applications not accompanied by the fee shall be deemed incomplete.
      (4)   The village shall not require an application, approval, or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least 10 days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with division (B)(1)(d); or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (E)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail earner registered under § 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed, and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of § 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, PUBLIC UTILITY has the meaning
given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement:
            1.   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
            2.   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain,
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this chapter.
   (F)   Annual recurring rate.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located
in a right-of-way that equals:
         (a)   $200 per year; or
         (b)   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the village utility pole.
      (2)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and
direct costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first
annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (G)   Abandonment. 
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
   (H)   Indemnification. A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the
village harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or
property damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use
or occupancy of the village improvements or right-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the
Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall
further waive any claims that they may have against the village with respect to
consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
   (I)   Insurance. 
      (1)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own
cost and expense, the following insurance:
         (a)   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against
all risks;
         (b)   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
         (c)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
      (2)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
      (3)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless
provider that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds
under this section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall
provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability
to self-insure the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 18-O-9, passed 7-3-18)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1979 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
Ill. Compiled Stat. Section Code Section
Ill. Compiled Stat. Section                                    Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 30, § 5-65                                         31.166
Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.                                 30.13,
                                                               117.05
Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2.02(a)                                     30.10
Ch. 5, Act 120, § 7                                           30.20
Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.                                 35.04
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 5                                           35.09
Ch. 5, Act 140, § 6                                           35.08
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq.                               38.01
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15                                        38.01
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10–10-40                             38.01
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10                                       31.165
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5                                        38.99
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5                                        38.01
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a)                                     38.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c)                                     38.03
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 3-1                                          10.05
Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq.                               70.01
Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.                              34.45
Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.                              34.40
Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-125.1                                      34.42
Ch. 50, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.                                 55.06,
                                                               55.07
Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.                                34.11
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 5-1127                                       70.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-1-1 et seq.                              37.05
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1                                      99.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.5                                      136.09
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2.2-1 et seq.                            39.01,
                                                               39.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2.2-20                                     39.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2.2-25                                     39.05
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2.2-35                                     39.05
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2.2-40                                     39.04
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2.2-45                                     39.05
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2.2-50                                     39.05
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2.2-55                                     39.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-3-2                                        75.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-50                                    31.024
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-9-1                                        31.008,
                                                               31.047
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1                                       99.10,
                                                               99.31
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2                                       99.30
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-5                                       99.20
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-23                                      99.40
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-10-2                                      33.10
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-1 et seq.                              158.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-13-1 - 11-13-19                         154.002
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-14                                     154.290
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-15.1                                   100.17
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-31.1-1 et seq.                          39.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31.1-4                                    39.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1                                      71.001,
                                                               75.10
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-1 et seq.                            154.080
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-3                                    154.080
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-6                                    154.080
Ch. 70, Act 1205, § 3-9                                       70.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 8-101                                       50.069,
                                                               50.097
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-104                                      99.30
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-201(v)                                   53.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-301(c)                                   55.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401                                      53.02,
                                                               55.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401(b)(6)                                55.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801                                      55.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b)                                   55.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(c)(1)(vi)                            55.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(d)                                   55.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 22-501                                      54.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 22-501(r)(1)                                54.99
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 22-501(s)                                   54.03
Ch. 220, Act 50, §§ 1 et seq.                                53.16
Ch. 220, Act 65, § 4                                          53.05
Ch. 225, Act 320                                               150.999
Ch. 225, Act 320, § 3.1                                       50.156
                                                               110.55,
                                                               111.11,
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.                                125.01,
                                                               125.99,
                                                               134.02
Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5                                          125.01,
                                                               125.99
                                                               110.01,
Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.                               110.36,
                                                               110.42
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-2                                         110.01
Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 6-16 et seq.                              136.02
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-27                                        110.43,
                                                               110.99
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 4                                           50.156
Ch. 430, Act 35, §§ 1 et seq.                                103.01
Ch. 515, Act 5, §§ 5-5 et seq.                               135.02
Ch. 515, Act 5, §§ 10-5 et seq.                              135.02
Ch. 515, Act 5, §§ 20-5 et seq.                              135.02
Ch. 520, Act 5, §§ 2.1 et seq.                               135.02
Ch. 520, Act 5, §§ 3.1 et seq.                               135.02
Ch. 520, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.                                135.02
Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.                             53.02
Ch. 605, Act 120, § 1 et seq.                                 70.35
Ch. 625                                                        70.01,
                                                               98.53
Ch. 625, Act 5                                                 75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, Subch. 1                                       75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.                             71.999
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-102                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-106                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112                                       70.01 
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-117.7                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-125                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001                                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.2                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.6                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-155                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162.5                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-163                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166.1                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167.5                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.6                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.8                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-174                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.001                                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.1                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-201                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205.1                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-210.01                                    70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211.01                                    70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214.8                                     70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217                                       70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-101(d)                                    70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609                                       72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616                                       72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201 et seq.                               77.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201 - 4-214                               77.01
                                                               76.06,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203                                       76.25,
                                                               76.26
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213                                    76.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-204                                       39.02
Ch, 625, Act 5, § 6-205                                       76.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5 (Repealed)                          39.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-500                                       71.081,
                                                               71.083
Ch. 625, Act 5, Subch. 11                                      73.01,
                                                               75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-40-1                                     71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203                                      70.10,
                                                               76.25
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205                                      70.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206                                      70.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3                                    39.01,
                                                               77.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(1)                              39.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(2)                              39.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(3)                              39.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(4)                              39.05,
                                                               39.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(5)(i)(ii)                       39.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(6)                              39.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(7)                              39.05,
                                                               39.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(8)                              39.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(9)                              39.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(d)                                 39.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(e)                                 39.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.7                                    77.01,
                                                               77.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.7(b)                                 77.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-209.1                                    71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301                                      70.01,
                                                               72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302                                      70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305                                      70.30
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306                                      70.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307                                      70.32
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308                                      70.33
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309                                      70.34
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310                                      70.35
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311                                      70.36
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312                                      70.37
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313                                      70.38
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402                                      76.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403                                      76.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404                                      76.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-409                                      76.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-410 (Repealed)                           76.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-415                                      76.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501                                      76.25 
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501(d)                                   76.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501.2                                    76.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-502(a)                                   70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503(a)                                   76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-506                                      76.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601                                      71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-604                                      71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605                                      71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605.1(a) - (d-5)                         71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605.1(f)                                 71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)                                   71.004
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-611                                      71.003
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701                                      71.040
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702                                      71.041
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703                                      71.042
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704                                      71.043
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705                                      71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706                                      71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707                                      71.046
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708                                      71.046
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709                                      71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710                                      71.096
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-711                                      71.106
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801                                      71.020,
                                                               71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802                                      71.020
                                                               71.022,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803                                      71.045,
                                                               71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804                                      71.023,
                                                               71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805                                      71.024,
                                                               71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806                                      71.025
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901                                      71.060
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902                                      71.061
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903                                      71.062
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904                                      71.063
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905                                      71.064
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906                                      71.065
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907                                      71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907(a) - (c)                             71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907(d) - (h)                             71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907.5                                    71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-908                                      71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001                                     74.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002                                     74.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003                                     74.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1                                   74.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004                                     74.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1                                   74.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005                                     74.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005.1                                   74.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006                                     74.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007                                     74.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008                                     74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009                                     74.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010                                     74.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011                                     74.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201                                     71.080
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201(e)                                  70.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202                                     71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204                                     70.31,
                                                               70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205                                     71.082
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301                                     72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.1                                   72.11,
                                                               72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2                                   72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(a) - (e)                          72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(c-1)                              72.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302                                     72.25
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303                                     72.10
                                                               72.01,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304                                     72.11,
                                                               72.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305                                     72.26
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1306                                     39.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401                                     72.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402                                     71.095
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403                                     73.20
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.1                                   73.08
Ch. 625, Act 5 § 11-1403.2                                    73.23
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404                                     73.21
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405                                     73.22
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406                                     71.097
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407                                     71.097
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410                                     71.099
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411                                     71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412                                     71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1                                   71.101
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.2                                   74.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413                                     71.103
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414(a) - (e)                            71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416                                     71.104,
                                                               74.08 
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418                                     71.105
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420                                     71.067
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425                                     71.083
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502                                     73.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503                                     73.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504                                     73.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505                                     73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1                                   73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506                                     73.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507                                     73.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507.1                                   73.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208                                      71.023,
                                                               71.024
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215                                      70.11,
                                                               71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215(b)                                   72.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-712                                      75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-713                                      75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-801                                      71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803                                      71.045,
                                                               71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805                                      71.045,
                                                               71.081
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-102                                      75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-103                                      75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105                                      75.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106                                      75.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-107                                      75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109                                      75.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114                                      75.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-316                                      75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-317                                      75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 16-104                                      70.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-204                                      39.07,
                                                               71.999
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1 et seq.                              73.42
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 2-1 et seq.                              73.42
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 3-1 et seq.                              73.42
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 3-2 - 3-11                               73.31
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 4-1 et seq.                              73.31,
                                                               73.42
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 5-1 et seq.                              73.42
Ch. 625, Act 45, §§ 4-1 et seq.                              73.50
Ch. 625, Act 45, §§ 5-1 et seq.                              73.50
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 11-14 et seq.                             136.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-30                                       136.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 12-1 et seq.                              136.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 12-15 et seq.                             136.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 21-1 et seq.                              136.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-1 et seq.                              136.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1.2 and 1.5                              136.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 25-1                                        136.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1                                        136.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1                                        136.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 28-1 et seq.                              125.99
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2(b)                                     101.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 36-1 et seq.                              76.27
Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.                               76.10,
                                                               130.15
Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 3 et seq.                               136.02
Ch. 720, Act 570 § 100 et seq.                                76.10,
                                                               130.15
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 401 et seq.                             136.02
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 505                                       76.25
Ch. 720, Act 570, § 505(a)(3)                                 76.27
Ch. 725, Act 5, §§ 100-1 et seq.                             99.99
Ch. 725, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.                               76.10
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 5-5-3                                       76.10
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.                             99.99
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-203                                       39.06
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-1303                                      50.008,
                                                               56.33
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.                             126.14,
                                                               158.14
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)                                     31.165
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(b)                                     31.165
Ch. 765, Act 605, §§ 1 et seq.                               154.076
Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-101                                       31.165
Ch. 805, Act 5, §§ 1.01 et seq.                              126.04
Ill. Adm. Code Title 92, Chapter 1, Subchapter f, Part 554.407 75.10
                                                               
 
REFERENCES TO 1979 CODE
Old Code Section New Code Section
Old Code Section         New Code Section
101                      31.020
102                      31.021
103                      31.021
104                      31.022
105                      31.023
201                      30.01
202                      30.02
203                      30.10
204                      30.11
205                      30.12
206                      30.13
207                      30.14
208                      30.15
209                      30.16
210                      30.18
211                      30.17
212                      30.02
213                      30.19
301                      31.030
302                      31.031
303                      31.032
304                      31.033
305                      31.034
306                      31.035
307                      31.035
308                      31.037
309                      31.038
310                      31.039
311                      31.040
312                      31.041
313                      31.041
314(1)                   35.01
314(2)                   35.02,
                         35.03
314(4)                   35.03
314(5)                   35.04
314(8)                   35.08
314(9)                   35.09
314(10)                  35.10
401                      31.050
401(1)                   31.051
401(2)                   31.052
401(3)                   31.052
401(4)                   31.054
401(5)                   31.055
401(6)                   31.056
401(7)                   31.057
402                      31.065
402(1)                   31.066
402(2)                   31.067
402(3)                   31.068
402(4)                   31.069
403                      31.075
403(1)                   31.076
403(2)                   31.077
403(3)                   31.077
404                      31.085
404(1)                   31.086
404(2)                   31.087
405                      31.095
405(1)                   31.096
405(2)                   31.097
406                      31.105
406(1)                   31.106
406(2)                   31.106
406(3)                   31.106
407                      31.115
407(1)                   31.116
407(2)                   31.117
407(3)                   31.118
408                      31.125
408(1)                   31.126
408(2)                   31.127
408(3)                   31.128
410                      31.006
411                      31.003
412(1)                   31.151
412(2)                   31.141
412(3)                   31.152
412(4)                   31.152
500                      34.01
500(1)                   34.02
500(2)                   34.04
500(3)                   34.03
500(4)                   34.05
500(5)                   34.07
500(6)                   34.05
500(7)                   34.08
500(8)                   34.09
500(9)                   34.11
500(11)                  34.11
500(12a)                 34.11
500(12b)                 34.31
500(12c)                 34.31
500(12d)                 34.32
500(12e)                 34.33
500(13a)                 34.40
500(13b)                 34.41
500(13c)                 34.42
500(13d)                 34.43
500(13e)                 34.44
500(13f)                 34.45
500(13g)                 34.44
500(13h)                 34.44
600                      33.01
600(1)                   33.02
600(2)                   33.03
600(3)                   33.04
600(4)                   33.05,
                         33.06
                         33.06,
600(5)                   33.08,
                         132.11
600(6)                   132.99,
                         33.09
703                      32.20
703(1)                   32.20
703(2)                   32.20
703(3)                   32.22
703(4)                   32.23
704                      32.30
704(1)                   32.31
704(2)                   32.32
901                      52.001
                         52.002 -
                         52.013,
902                      52.015 -
                         52.020,
                         52.023
903                      52.021
904                      52.030,
                         52.031
                         100.01 -
905                      100.06,
                         100.99
                         52.040 -
906                      52.041,
                         52.043 -
                         52.044
907                      52.050 -
                         52.055
908                      52.060 -
                         52.064
                         52.070 -
                         52.073,
909                      52.075,
                         52.076,
                         52.078 -
                         52.080
910                      52.090 -
                         52.094
911                      52.080
912                      52.100,
                         52.101
913                      52.110,
                         52.111
914                      52.021
1001(1)                  31.001
1001(2)                  31.002
1001(3)                  31.003
1001(4)                  31.004
1001(5)                  31.005
1001(6)                  31.006
1001(7)                  31.013
1001(8)                  31.011
1001(9)                  132.09
1001(10)                 132.10
1001(11)                 31.009
1002                     100.07,
                         100.99
1002(1)                  11.01
1002(2)                  36.03
1002(5)                  31.014
1002(6)                  98.26
1002(8)                  98.35
1002(9)                  98.10
1002(10)                 98.20
                         100.15 -
1002(12)                 100.17,
                         100.99
1002(13)                 31.011
1002(14)                 99.10,
                         99.11
1002(15)                 99.20,
                         99.21
1002(19)                 36.02
1002(20a)                51.02
1002(20)                 51.01
1002(21)                 11.02
1002(22)                 31.009
1002(23)(b)              36.01
                         99.01 -
1002(24)                 99.06,
                         99.99
1002(25)                 31.007
1101                     50.001
                         50.002,
1102                     50.004 -
                         50.012,
                         50.014
1104                     50.040 -
                         50.044
1105                     50.050 -
                         50.056
                         50.065 -
                         50.069,
1106                     50.071,
                         50.072,
                         50.080 -
                         50.086
                         50.095 -
1107                     50.097,
                         50.099 -
                         50.108
1108                     50.115 -
                         50.126
1109                     50.130 -
                         50.133
1110                     50.140 -
                         50.143
1201(1)                  95.01
1201(2)                  95.02
1201(3)                  95.03
1201(4)                  95.04
1201(5)                  95.05
1202(1)                  95.10
1202(2)                  95.12
1202(3)                  95.13
1202(4)                  95.14
1202(5)                  95.15
1202(6)                  95.16
1202(7)                  95.17
1203(1)                  116.10
1203(2)                  116.01
1203(3)                  116.01
1203(4)                  116.11
1203(5)                  116.14
1203(6)                  116.13
1203(7)                  116.12
1203(8)                  116.15
1203(9)                  116.16
1203(10)                 116.17
1203(11)                 116.18
1203(12)                 116.19
1203(13)                 116.20
1203(14)                 116.21
1203(15)                 116.99
1204(2)                  116.01
1205(1)                  95.31
1205(2)                  95.31
1205(3)                  95.34
1205(4)                  95.32
1205(5)                  95.11
1205(6)                  95.30
1205(7)                  95.33
1205(8)                  95.35
1205(9)                  95.35
1205(10)                 95.45,
                         95.46
1206(1)                  118.01
1206(2)                  118.02
1206(3)                  118.03
1206(4)                  118.04
1206(5)                  118.99
1301                     120.01
1302                     120.02
1303                     120.03
1304(1)                  120.04
1304(2)                  120.04
1304(3)                  120.04
1304(4)                  120.04
1304(5)                  120.04
1305                     120.05
1306                     120.06
1307                     120.07
1308                     120.08
1309                     120.09
1310.1                   120.10
1310(2)                  120.11
1311                     120.12
1312                     120.14
1313                     120.13
1314                     120.99
1401(1)                  111.01
1401(2)                  111.02
1401(3)                  111.03
1401(4)                  111.04
1401(5)                  111.05
1401(6)                  111.06
1401(7)                  111.07
1401(8)                  111.99
1401(9)                  111.08
1402(1)                  111.15
1402(2)                  111.16
1402(3)                  111.17
1402(4)                  111.18
1402(5)                  111.19
1402(6)                  111.99
1403(1)                  111.25
1403(8)                  111.99
1405(1)                  111.50
1405(2)                  111.51
1405(3)                  111.52
1405(4)                  111.53
1405(5)                  111.55
1405(6)                  111.54
1405(7)                  111.55
1405(8)                  111.99
1406(1)                  111.60
1406(2)                  111.61
1406(3)                  111.61
1406(4)                  111.62
1406(5)                  111.63
1406(6)                  111.64
1406(7)                  111.65
1406(8)                  111.66
1406(9)                  111.67
1406(10)                 111.99
1407(1)                  111.75
1407(2)                  111.76
1407(3)                  111.77
1407(4)                  111.78
1407(5)                  111.79
1407(6)                  111.80
1407(7)                  111.81
1407(8)                  111.82
1407(9)                  111.99
1408(1)                  101.01
1408(2)                  101.02
1408(3)                  101.03
1408(4)                  101.04
1408(5)                  101.05
1408(6)                  101.06
1408(7)                  101.07
1408(8)                  101.08
1408(9)                  101.09
1501(1)                  112.01
1501(2)                  112.02
1501(3)                  112.03
1501(4)                  112.04
1501(5)                  112.05
1501(6)                  112.06
1501(7)                  112.07
1501(8)                  112.99
1502(1)                  114.01
1502(2)                  114.02
1502(4)                  114.99
1502(5)                  114.03
1502(6)                  114.99
1503(1)                  115.01
1503(2)                  115.02
1503(3)                  115.02
1503(4)                  115.03
1503(5)                  115.04
1503(6)                  115.05
1503(7)                  115.06
1503(8)                  115.99
1505(1)                  119.01
1505(2)                  119.02
1505(3)                  119.02
1505(4)                  119.03
1505(5)                  119.04
1505(6)                  119.05
1505(7)                  119.06
1505(8)                  119.07
1505(9)                  119.99
1507(1)                  121.01
1507(2)                  121.01
1507(3)                  121.02
1507(4)                  121.03
1507(5)                  121.04
1507(6)                  121.05
1507(7)                  121.99
1508(1)                  114.10
1508(2)                  114.11
1508(3)                  114.12
1508(4)                  114.99
1510(1)                  123.01
1510(2)                  123.02
1510(3)                  123.02
1510(4)                  123.03
1510(5)                  123.04
1510(6)                  123.05
1510(7)                  123.06
1510(8)                  123.07
1511(1)                  124.01
1511(2)                  124.02
1511(3)                  124.03
1511(4)                  124.04
1511(5)                  124.99
1513(1)                  113.01
1513(2)                  113.10
1513(3)                  113.11
1513(4)                  113.11
1513(5)                  113.11
1513(6)                  113.12
1513(7)                  113.13
1513(8)                  113.14
1513(9)                  113.15
1513(10)                 113.16
1513(11)                 113.17
1513(12)                 113.17
1513(13)                 113.18
1513(15)                 113.99
1514(1)                  134.01
1514(2)                  134.01
1516(1)                  113.01
1516(2)                  113.25
1516(3)                  113.26
1516(4)                  113.26
1516(5)                  113.27
1516(6)                  113.28
1516(7)                  113.99
1601                     150.001,
                         150.002
1602                     150.003
1606(1)                  150.010
1606(2)                  150.011
1606(3)                  150.012
1606(4)                  150.013
1606(5)                  150.014
1606(6)                  150.015
1606(7)                  150.016
1606(8)                  150.017
1606(9)                  150.018
1606(10)                 150.019
1606(11)                 150.020
1606(12)                 150.021
1606(13)                 150.022
1606(14)                 150.999
1607(1) - (4)            150.035
1607(5)                  150.999
1608(1)                  150.050
1608(2)                  150.051
1608(3)                  150.052
1608(4)                  150.053
1608(5)                  150.054
1608(6)                  150.999
1609(1)                  150.064,
                         Ch. 150, Appendix
1609(2)                  150.065
1609(3)                  150.999
1611(a)                  150.085
1611(g)                  150.086
1611(3)                  150.999
1612(1)                  150.095
1612(5)                  150.096
1612(6)                  150.097
1612(7)                  150.098
1612(8)                  150.099
1612(9)                  150.100
1612(10)                 150.999
1613(1)                  150.110
1613(2)                  150.111
1613(3)                  150.112
1613(4)                  150.113
1613(5)                  150.114
1613(6)                  150.115
1613(7)                  150.116
1613(8)                  150.117
1613(9)                  150.118
1613(10)                 150.119
1613(11)                 150.999
1801(12)                 Ch. 78, Sch. IV
1801(28)(d)              Ch. 78, Sch. I
1801(28)(e)              Ch. 78, Sch. I
1801(28)(f)              Ch. 78, Sch. II
1801(28)(g)              Ch. 78, Sch. I
1804(1)                  72.13
1804(2)                  Ch. 79, Sch. I
1804(3)                  Ch. 79, Sch. I
1804(4)                  72.15
1804(5)                  72.14
1804(6)                  72.99
1805(1)                  Ch. 78, Sch. III
1807                     75.25
1807(a)                  75.26
1807(b)                  75.27
1808(1)                  94.01
1808(2)                  94.02
1808(3)                  94.03
1808(5)                  94.05
1808(6)                  94.06
1808(7)                  94.06
1808(8)                  94.07
1808(9)                  94.08
1808(10)                 94.08
1808(11)                 94.09
1808(12)                 94.10
1808(13)                 94.12
1808(14)                 94.11
1808(15)                 94.99
1810(1)                  73.23
1810(2)                  73.31 -
                         73.39
1810(4)                  73.40
1810(5)                  73.41
1810(6)                  73.42
1810(8)                  73.99
1812(1)                  132.08
1812(2)                  132.08
1813(c)                  72.99
1903(1)                  134.02
1903(6)                  101.10
1905(1)                  157.01
1905(2)                  157.02
1905(3)                  157.03
1905(4)                  157.99
1906(1)                  155.01
1906(2)                  155.02
1906(3)                  155.03
1906(4)                  155.04
1906(5)                  155.05
1906(6)                  155.06
1906(7)                  155.07
1906(8)                  155.08
1906(9)                  155.99
1908(1)                  133.10
1908(2)                  133.11
1908(3)                  133.12
1909(1)                  130.02
1909(2)                  130.06
1909(2a)                 130.07
1909(3)                  130.08
1909(4)                  133.01
1909(5)                  130.04
1909(6)                  131.03
1909(7)                  131.12
1909(8)                  130.03
1909(9)                  130.05
1909(9a)                 130.09
1909(9b)                 130.99
1909(10)                 130.10
1909(15)                 52.025
1909(16)                 130.14
1909(19)                 52.024
1909(21)                 130.02
1909(23)                 130.11
1909(24)                 133.02
1909(26)                 130.12
1909(27)                 130.13
1909(28)                 131.04
1909(30a)                130.99
1909(31a)                132.01
1909(31c)                132.03
1909(31d)                132.04
1909(31e)                132.05
1909(31f)                132.06
1909(31g)                132.07
1909(32)                 131.01
1909(33)                 131.02
1909(34)                 130.10
1909(35)                 130.10
1909(36)                 131.99,
                         132.99
1909(316)                132.02
1913(1)                  131.25
1913(3)                  131.27
1914(1)                  133.20
1914(2)                  133.21
1915(1)                  131.11
1916(1)                  131.10,
                         131.13
1917                     130.01
1917(4)                  130.99
1918(1)                  97.01
1918(2)                  97.02
1918(3)                  97.03
1918(4)                  97.04
1918(5)                  97.05
1918(6)                  97.06
1918(7)                  97.06
1918(8)                  97.99
2001                     98.02
                         98.10,
                         98.12 -
                         98.16,
                         98.18 -
2002                     98.21,
                         98.23 -
                         98.28,
                         98.30 -
                         98.34
                         98.40,
2003                     98.41,
                         98.43 -
                         98.52
2004                     98.99
2006                     98.60,
                         98.99
2101                     110.01
2102                     110.10
2103                     110.12
2105                     110.14
2107                     110.16
2108                     110.19
2109                     110.17
2110                     110.18
2111                     110.20
2112                     110.21
2113                     110.30
2114                     110.31
2115                     110.32
2116-A                   110.34
2116(a)                  110.33
2116(f)                  110.99
2117                     110.22
2118                     110.35
2119                     110.36
2120                     110.11
2121                     110.37
2121-A                   110.37
2122                     110.38
2123                     110.39
2124                     110.40
2125                     110.99
2201(4)                  10.99
                         151.015 -
1965-0-2, passed 1-19-65 151.019,
                         151.023,
                         151.048
1983-0-5, passed 4-19-83 50.143
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
                         154.001 -
                         154.012,
                         154.020 -
                         154.023,
                         154.025 -
                         154.028,
                         154.035,
                         154.037,
                         154.038,
                         154.045,
                         154.047,
                         154.048,
                         154.055,
                         154.057,
                         154.058,
                         154.065,
                         154.067 -
                         154.070,
                         154.075,
                         154.085,
                         154.086,
                         154.088,
                         154.089,
                         154.095,
                         154.096,
                         154.098,
                         154.099,
                         154.105 -
                         154.107,
                         154.109 -
                         154.111,
- -          2-18-64     154.120,
                         154.121,
                         154.123,
                         154.124,
                         154.130,
                         154.131,
                         154.133,
                         154.134,
                         154.140,
                         154.150 -
                         154.153,
                         154.160 -
                         154.170,
                         154.175 -
                         154.185,
                         154.190 -
                         154.209,
                         154.215,
                         154.216,
                         154.235 -
                         154.238,
                         154.265 -
                         154.269,
                         154.282 -
                         154.284 ,
                         154.290 -
                         154.296,
                         154.305,
                         154.310 -
                         154.315,
                         154.320,
                         154.321,
                         154.999
                         151.001 -
                         151.006,
                         151.015 -
                         151.031,
                         151.040 -
                         151.048,
                         151.060 -
                         151.068,
                         151.080 -
                         151.085,
                         151.090 -
1965-O-2     1-19-65     151.096,
                         151.105 -
                         151.108,
                         151.120 -
                         151.124,
                         151.130 - 151.137,
                         151.145 -
                         151.149,
                         151.160 -
                         151.163,
                         151.170 -
                         151.186  
                         153.001 -
                         153.004,
                         153.010 -
                         153.012,
                         153.020 -
                         153.027,
                         153.035 -
                         153.037,
                         153.045,
                         153.046,
                         153.055,
                         153.056,
                         153.065 -
                         153.070,
                         153.080 -
1976-O-10    9-21-76     153.084,
                         153.090 -
                         153.096,
                         153.105 -
                         153.111,
                         153.120 -
                         153.129,
                         153.140 -
                         153.146,
                         153.150 -
                         153.153,
                         153.160 -
                         153.163,
                         153.170 -
                         153.172,
                         153.999
1978-O-6     4-4-78      150.022
                         150.064,
1979-O-16    4-17-79     150.065,
                         150.999,
                         Appendix
1979-O-18    5-15-79     73.41
1979-O-25    6-19-79     72.14
1979-O-26    6-19-79     98.02
1979-O-34    8-7-79      101.10
1980-O-1     2-19-80     72.99
1980-O-2     3-4-80      95.13
1980-O-3     4-1-80      98.48
1980-O-4     4-15-80     72.14
1980-O-5     5-6-80      110.37
1980-O-12    6-3-80      110.33,
                         110.39
                         133.21,
1980-O-18    9-2-80      133.99,
                         133.20
                         131.10,
1980-O-23    11-4-80     131.11,
                         131.13
1981-O-1     1-6-81      101.01 -
                         101.09
1981-O-2     2-3-81      34.04,
                         34.05
                         34.11,
1981-O-3     2-3-81      34.31 -
                         34.33
1981-O-6     4-7-81      34.40 -
                         34.45
1981-O-8     4-21-81     150.003
1981-O-25    12-15-81    30.02
1982-O-17    8-17-82     34.04
1983-O-25    9-1-82      150.022
1982-O-25    10-19-82    31.009
1982-O-7     12-7-82     110.14
1982-O-28    12-7-82     98.23
1982-O-30    12-21-82    30.10
                         50.001 -
                         50.012,
                         50.014,
                         50.040 -
                         50.044,
                         50.050 -
                         50.056,
                         50.065 -
                         50.069,
                         50.071,
                         50.072,
1983-O-5     4-19-83     50.080 -
                         50.086,
                         50.095 -
                         50.097,
                         50.099 -
                         50.108,
                         50.115 -
                         50.126,
                         50.130 -
                         50.133,
                         50.140 -
                         50.143,
                         Ch. 50, Appendix
                         52.001 -
                         52.013,
                         52.015 -
                         52.021,
                         52.023,
                         52.030 -
                         52.032,
                         52.040 -
                         52.041,
                         52.043 -
                         52.044,
                         52.050,
1983-O-6     4-19-83     52.081,
                         52.090 -
                         52.092,
                         52.094,
                         52.100,
                         52.101,
                         52.110,
                         52.111,
                         52.999,
                         Ch. 52, Appendix,
                         100.01 -
                         100.06,
                         100.99
1983-O-8     4-19-83     36.01
1983-O-9     4-19-83     72.13
1983-O-12    6-21-83     50.080,
                         50.081
1983-O-16    7-5-83      52.021
                         94.01,
1983-O-20    9-6-83      94.11,
                         94.99
1983-O-21    9-20-83     34.04
1983-O-24    10-18-83    95.14
1983-O-25    9-1-82      150.022
1983-O-27    12-6-83     131.12
1983-O-28    12-6-83     130.10
1984-O-25    - -84       50.065
1984-O-4     1-17-84     130.01,
                         130.99
1984-O-5     2-7-84      132.08
                         110.10,
1984-O-6     2-7-84      110.14,
                         110.31,
                         110.33
                         113.01,
1984-O-7     2-7-84      113.25 -
                         113.28,
                         113.99
1984-O-9     3-20-84     50.069,
                         50.085
                         35.01 -
1984-O-15    6-19-84     35.04,
                         35.08 -
                         35.10
1984-O-18    9-18-84     150.001,
                         150.002
1984-O-21    10-2-84     131.99,
                         132.99
1984-O-22    10-2-84     50.080,
                         50.083
1984-O-26    10-2-84     52.090
1984-O-27    10-16-84    50.086
1984-O-28    10-16-84    52.094
1984-O-30    12-18-84    130.09
1985-O-1     2-5-85      72.99
1985-O-4     2-19-85     31.009
1985-O-9     3-19-85     33.06
1985-O-16    8-6-85      150.085,
                         150.086
1985-O-19    10-1-85     99.01 -
                         99.06, 99.99
1986-O-6     2-7-86      110.39
1986-O-3     2-18-86     132.01 -
                         132.07
1986-O-10    6-16-86     110.35
1986-O-13    7-1-86      33.06
                         50.001,
1986-O-14    7-1-86      50.009,
                         50.010,
                         50.117
1986-O-18    8-8-86      Ch. 155
1986-O-27    10-7-86     Ch. 79, Sch. I
1986-O-28    10-7-86     Ch. 78, Sch. I,
                         II
1986-O-30    10-24-86    50.108
1986-O-32    12-2-86     52.021
1987-O-2     1-6-87      52.040,
                         52.041
1987-O-3     1-6-87      50.027
1987-O-7     2-3-87      150.003
1987-O-8     2-3-87      Ch. 78, Sch. I
1987-O-11    3-3-87      50.068
1987-O-12    - - 87      150.999
1987-O-13    3-17-87     150.003
                         150.110 -
1987-O-14    4-7-87      150.119,
                         150.999
                         150.095 -
1987-O-15    4-7-87      150.100,
                         150.999
1987-O-21    6-2-87      Ch. 78, Sch. I
1987-O-22    6-2-87      110.31
1987-O-23    6-2-87      50.081
1987-O-23(a) 6-16-87     110.31
1987-O-24    6-24-87     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1987-O-27    8-4-87      150.001,
                         150.002
1987-O-29    9-1-87      150.085,
                         150.086
1987-O-30    9-1-87      Ch. 79, Sch. I
1987-O-31    9-1-87      Ch. 78, Sch. I
1987-O-32    9-15-87     31.007
1987-O-37    11-17-87    Ch. 78, Sch. III
1987-O-38    11-17-87    50.072
1988-O-02    1-19-88     130.02,
                         130.07
1988-O-3     2-2-88      95.10,
                         95.16
1988-O-8     2-16-88     50.065,
                         50.080
1988-O-11    3-15-88     151.175
                         50.068,
1988-O-31    9-20-88     50.080,
                         50.081
1988-O-32    9-20-88     52.091
1988-O-33    9-20-88     152.14
                         154.047,
1988-O-34    9-20-88     154.057,
                         154.058,
                         154.065
1988-O-35    9-20-88     154.010
1989-O-3     1-17-88     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1989-O-6     3-7-89      50.044
1989-O-12    5-2-89      31.116
1989-O-13    5-16-89     98.48
1989-O-15    6-6-89      34.04,
                         34.05
1989-O-16    6-20-89     Ch. 78, Sch. IV,
                         V
                         76.25,
1989-O-18    6-6-89      76.26,
                         76.28
1989-O-20    8-1-89      Ch. 78, Sch. I
1989-O-24    7-18-89     150.130 -
                         150.132
1989-O-28    8-1-89      Ch. 78, Sch. I
                         116.01,
1989-O-29    8-1-89      116.10,
                         116.12
1989-O-32    9-6-89      50.081,
                         50.106
1989-O-34    8-15-89     50.044,
                         151.121
1989-O-36    10-17-89    154.171
                         90.01 -
                         90.03,
                         90.05 -
1989-O-37    1-17-89     90.09,
                         90.11,
                         90.12,
                         90.99
1989-O-44    12-5-89     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1990-O-01    2-6-90      152.92
1990-O-2     2-6-90      52.040 -
                         52.044
1990-O-06    3-6-90      150.004
1990-O-7     5-15-90     94.01,
                         94.04
1990-O-08    3-20-90     150.003
1990-O-9     4-3-90      130.01
1990-O-10    4-3-90      Ch. 78, Sch. I
1990-O-13    5-1-90      50.087
1990-O-19    8-7-90      Adopting Ordinance
1990-O-20    8-7-90      Ch. 79, Sch. I
1990-O-21    8-8-90      50.013,
                         50.999
1990-O-22    8-7-90      50.081
1990-O-24    8-7-90      110.31,
                         110.32
1990-O-26    9-4-90      Ch. 78, Sch. I
1990-O-29    10-6-90     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1990-O-31    11-20-90    Ch. 78, Sch. I
1991-O-09    4-2-91      Ch. 78, Sch. IV
                         52.007,
1991-O-16    8-6-91      52.014,
                         52.026,
                         52.999
1991-O-17    7-16-91     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1991-O-20    9-3-91      110.31
1991-O-24    10-15-91    155.02,
                         155.08
1991-O-27    11-5-91     52.041
1991-O-29    11-5-91     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1991-O-31    11-19-91    152.26
1992-O-02    1-21-92     152.25
                         152.60 -
1992-O-08    4-7-92      152.70,
                         152.75 -
                         152.85
1992-O-14    6-16-92     76.10
1992-O-15    6-16-92     Ch. 78, Sch. I,
                         IV
                         98.48,
1992-O-18    8-4-92      98.54,
                         98.55
                         154.112,
1992-O-19    8-1-92      154.113,
                         154.162
1992-O-20    10-6-92     32.01 -
                         32.04
1992-O-27    10-20-92    102.01
1992-O-28    11-3-92     32.45 -
                         32.50
                         Ch. 78, Sch. I,
1992-O-29    12-15-92    II,
                         IV,
                         Ch. 79, Sch. I
1993-O-01    3-16-93     50.016
                         154.023,
1993-O-02    2-2-93      154.205 -
                         154.211
1993-O-03    3-2-93      Ch. 78, Sch. I
1993-O-09    5-4-93      30.04
1993-O-13    6-15-93     150.003
1993-O-17    9-7-93      Adopting Ordinance
                         110.10,
1994-O-01    3-15-95     110.14,
                         110.23
1994-O-3     3-15-94     73.42
1994-O-4     5-3-94      31.140 -
                         31.145
1994-O-17    9-6-94      50.150 -
                         50.162
1995-O-01    2-21-95     50.108
1995-O-5     5-2-95      50.132
1995-O-9     7-5-95      31.007
1995-O-13    9-5-95      90.99
1995-O-15    10-17-95    Ch. 78, Sch. I
1995-O-17    10-17-95    154.282
1995-O-22    12-26-95    Repeals
                         31.007
1995-O-25    12-26-95    Ch. 152
1996-O-4     5-21-96     51.03
1996-O-8     6-17-96     98.23
1996-O-21    12-3-96     152.211
1996-O-22    12-3-96     50.04
1996-O-23    12-3-96     30.03
                         50.80 -
1996-O-26    12-17-96    50.81,
                         51.03,
                         52.091
1996-O-30    11-18-97    152.211
1997-O-2     3-4-97      101.05
1997-O-5     2-18-97     51.03
1997-O-7     6-17-96     130.15,
                         130.99
                         31.033,
                         31.034,
1997-13      7-1-97      31.041,
                         31.130 -
                         31.133
1997-O-21    10-21-97    98.70
                         154.020,
1997-O-24    11-4-97     154.154 -
                         154.158
1997-O-27    11-4-97     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1997-O-28    11-4-97     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1998-O-1     1-6-98      73.34,
                         73.37, repeals 73.40
1998-O-2     1-20-98     110.01,
                         110.30, repeals 110.13 and 110.15
1998-O-4     3-3-98      152.029
1998-O-6     2-17-98     116.01
1998-O-7     2-17-98     154.003,
                         154.282
1998-O-9     4-21-98     154.320, repeals 154.321
1998-O-13    1-20-98     110.01,
                         110.24
1998-14      7-7-98      99.30 -
                         99.38
1998-O-17    9-1-98      154.320
1998-O-21    9-15-98     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1999-O-1     1-19-99     72.99
1999-O-2     1-19-99     72.99
1999-O-3     1-19-99     90.99
1999-O-4     1-19-99     90.11,
                         90.16
1999-O-5     1-19-99     73.33,
                         73.99
1999-O-9     3-16-99     99.30,
                         99.34
                         111.99, repeals 111.40 - 111.45, 111.90 - 111.96,
1999-O-10    4-6-99      122.01 -
                         122.99
1999-O-12    5-4-99      154.295
                         154.280 -
                         154.285, repeals 154.024,
                         154.036,
                         154.046,
                         154.056,
1999-O-13    5-18-99     154.066,
                         154.087,
                         154.097,
                         154.108,
                         154.122,
                         154.132
                         52.01,
1999-O-17    6-15-99     94.99,
                         95.12,
                         95.99
                         152.119,
1999-O-21    9-21-99     152.122,
                         153.128,
                         153.141
1999-O-22    10-19-99    154.182
1999-O-23    10-19-99    150.001,
                         150.002
1999-O-33    12-21-99    Ch. 78, Sch. I
                         75.01,
2000-O-3     3-7-00      75.10,
                         75.10A,
                         Ch 75, Appendix
2000-O-3     6-6-00      75.10
                         32.01 -
2000-O-6     5-16-00     32.06,
                         154.217
2000-O-7     6-6-00      72.14
                         130.10,
                         131.05,
2000-O-8     6-6-00      131.25,
                         131.26,
                         131.28,
                         131.99
2000-O-13    10-17-00    52.041
2000-O-15    10-17-00    150.001,
                         150.002
2000-O-16    10-17-00    151.200
2000-O-17    10-17-00    32.07
2000-O-20    11-21-00    154.010
2001-O-1     1-2-01      99.80
2001-O-2     2-20-01     131.99
2001-O-5     3-6-01      52.110
                         122.01 -
2001-O-6     3-20-01     122.18,
                         122.99
2001-O-8     5-1-01      32.60 -
                         36.63
                         154.160 -
2001-O-14    5-15-01     154.162,
                         154.167
2001-O-15    5-15-01     154.010
2001-O-16    6-5-01      103.01 -
                         103.04
2001-O-17    7-3-01      153.021
2001-O-18    7-17-01     154.176
2001-O-22    10-16-01    154.086
2001-O-24    11-6-01     150.003
2001-O-25    11-6-01     90.16
2001-O-27    11-20-01    155.07
2001-O-33    12-18-01    10.99
2001-O-34    12-18-01    72.99
2002-O-1     1-15-02     71.999
2002-O-6     2-19-02     150.100 -
                         150.102
                         95.50 -
2002-O-8     3-5-02      95.56,
                         95.99
2002-O-10    3-19-02     154.008,
                         154.209
2002-O-11    3-19-02     154.013
                         73.42, repeals 73.43,
                         73.50,
2002-O-13    4-2-02      73.90,
                         135.01 -
                         135.03,
                         135.99
2002-O-14    4-2-02      75.10A
                         50.005,
2002-O-15    4-2-02      50.045,
                         50.999
2002-O-16    4-16-02     154.167
2002-O-17    4-16-02     36.04
2002-O-20    5-7-02      52.045
2002-O-22    6-4-02      52.042
2002-O-23    6-18-02     95.99
2002-O-25    7-2-02      150.160 -
                         150.163
2002-O-26    7-2-02      32.60 -
                         32.63
2002-O-35    9-3-02      150.040
2002-O-36    9-3-02      71.010
2002-O-44    11-19-02    120.15,
                         120.99
                         111.10 -
2002-O-45    11-19-02    111.14,
                         111.99
2002-O-46    11-19-02    154.080
                         72.10,
2002-O-47    11-19-02    157.01,
                         157.04
                         50.086,
2002-O-49    12-3-02     52.094,
                         152.046
2003-O-5     4-1-03      36.05
2003-O-6     4-1-03      36.06
2003-O-7     4-15-03     150.015
                         154.026,
                         154.038,
                         154.047,
2003-O-10    5-6-03      154.048,
                         154.058,
                         154.068,
                         154.075
2003-O-13    5-20-03     33.06
2003-O-22    8-5-03      154.010
2003-O-24    8-5-03      93.18,
                         93.19
2003-O-25    8-19-03     154.140
2003-O-26    9-2-03      36.07
2003-O-30    12-2-03     130.16,
                         130.99
2003-O-31    12-2-03     130.17
2003-O-32    12-2-03     130.18
2003-O-33    12-2-03     70.99,
                         74.08
2004-O-3     3-16-04     154.067,
                         154.076
2004-O-4     3-16-04     154.305
2004-O-5     3-16-04     31.008
2004-O-6     3-16-04     Ch. 78, Sch. I
                         38.01-
2004-O-9     6-1-04      38.06,
                         38.99
2004-O-11    6-15-04     155.09
2004-O-13    8-3-04      50.080,
                         50.081
                         95.20-
2004-O-15    9-7-04      95.25,
                         95.54,
                         95.99
2004-O-17    9-21-04     Ch. 78, Sch. I
2004-O-18    10-5-04     150.003 
2004-O-20    10-19-04    90.06
2005-O-1     1-4-05      113.17
2005-O-2     3-1-05      150.003
2005-O-5     4-19-05     150.045
2005-O-6     4-19-05     150.005
2005-O-16    8-16-05     30.03
2005-O-17    8-16-05     Ch. 78, Sch. I
                         130.99,
2005-O-19    9-20-05     131.99,
                         132.99,
                         133.99
2005-O-20    10-4-05     Adopting Ordinance
2005-O-21    10-4-05     157.01,
                         157.04
2005-O-22    10-4-05     Ch. 78, Sch. I
2005-O-23    10-18-05    150.006
2005-O-24    11-1-05     150.003
                         154.089,
2006-O-1     1-3-06      154.099,
                         154.110
2006-O-2     2-7-06      39.01 -
                         39.08
2006-O-3     2-7-06      Repeals 77.01 - 77.08, 77.99
                         152.157,
2006-O-5     3-21-06     152.165,
                         152.166, 152.169, repeals 152.096
2006-O-9     5-2-06      36.06
2006-O-13    6-6-06      39.07
                         71.010,
                         72.99,
                         73.99,
                         74.99,
                         90.99,
                         94.99,
                         95.99,
2006-O-17    9-5-06      110.99,
                         117.99,
                         119.99,
                         130.99,
                         131.99,
                         132.99,
                         133.99,
                         134.99
2006-O-19    10-7-06     72.99
2006-O-20    10-17-06    Ch. 79, Sch. I
2006-O-22    11-21-06    131.03
                         93.35 -
2007-O-1     1-16-07     93.40,
                         93.99
2007-O-4     2-20-07     110.31
2007-O-13    6-5-07      150.003,
                         155.08
2007-O-17    6-26-07     32.03,
                         32.05
                         154.078,
2007-O-22    9-18-07     154.297,
                         154.298
2007-O-28    10-2-07     95.18
                         53.01 -
2007-O-33    12-4-07     53.23,
                         53.99
                         54.01 -
2007-O-34    12-4-07     54.03,
                         54.99
2007-O-35    12-4-07     55.01 -
                         55.07
2008-O-1     2-5-08      Ch. 78, Sch. I,
                         Ch. 79, Sch. I
2008-O-2     3-4-08      76.25,
                         76.26
                         56.01 -
                         56.06,
                         56.15 -
2008-O-3     3-4-08      56.21,
                         56.30-
                         56.37,
                         56.99
                         110.01,
                         110.16,
                         110.20,
2008-O-6     3-18-08     110.35,
                         110.36,
                         110.41,
                         110.99
2008-O-7     3-18-08     30.19
                         150.001,
2008-O-8     4-1-08      150.002,
                         150.007; repeals 150.075 - 150,078, 150.130, 150.170,
                         150.171
                         50.006,
2008-O-10    5-6-08      50.007,
                         50.999
2008-O-13    6-4-08      152.011
2008-O-15    7-1-08      95.18
2008-O-20    9-2-08      100.16,
                         100.17
2008-O-21    9-2-08      50.008
2008-O-24    11-18-08    Ch. 78, Sch. I
2009-O-1     2-17-09     154.107
2009-O-2     2-17-09     72.99
2009-O-5     4-21-09     36.06
                         77.01 -
2009-O-11    6-16-09     77.06,
                         77.99
                         39.07,
2009-O-14    7-21-09     95.99,
                         130.99
2009-O-16    8-4-09      110.42
2009-O-18    9-2-09      72.99,
                         Ch. 79, Sch. I
2009-O-24    12-1-09     33.10
                         158.01 -
2010-O-1     1-5-10      158.16,
                         158.99
2010-O-2     1-19-10     158.16
2010-O-6     4-6-10      90.20,
                         90.99
2010-O-9     5-4-10      77.03
2010-O-11    6-15-10     100.17
2010-O-12    7-6-10      Ch. 78, Sch. IV
2010-O-16    9-7-10      116.99, repeals §§ 116.30 - 116.35
2010-O-19    10-19-10    Ch. 78, Sch. III
2010-O-20    10-19-10    Ch. 78, Sch. I
2011-O-2     1-18-11     150.008,
                         150.009
                         150.040,
2011-O-4     3-1-11      157.01,
                         157.05
2011-O-5     3-1-11      Ch. 79, Sch. I
2011-O-13    7-19-11     Ch. 78, Sch. IV
                         52.041,
2011-O-14    7-19-11     52.042,
                         52.046
                         77.01 -
                         77.06,
2011-O-20    12-20-11    77.10,
                         77.11,
                         77.99
2011-O-21    12-20-11    Ch. 79, Sch. I
2012-O-10    5-15-12     34.11
12-O-11      6-5-12      95.55
2012-O-13    6-5-12      31.008
                         39.07,
2012-O-15    6-19-12     98.80 -
                         98.82,
                         98.99
                         35.02 -
2012-O-17    8-21-12     35.05,
                         35.08 -
                         35.10
2012-O-18    8-21-12     36.01
                         39.07,
                         111.10 -
                         111.14,
12-O-22      10-16-12    125.01,
                         125.02,
                         125.99,
                         134.02
2012-O-23    10-16-12    154.211
2012-O-24    11-6-12     Ch. 78, Sch. IV
2013-O-2     3-19-13     158.02,
                         158.04
2013-O-12    8-20-13     110.43,
                         110.99
2013-O-14    8-20-13     155.04
2013-O-15    8-20-13     156.02,
                         156.03
2013-O-16    9-3-13      Ch. 79, Sch. I
2013-O-21    11-19-13    110.31
2014-O-3     2-18-14     Repeals §§ 116.40 - 116.59, 116.99(B)-(D)
2014-O-4     3-18-14     116.12
2014-O-5     3-18-14     154.010
2014-O-6     5-6-14      116.12
2014-O-7     5-6-14      32.05
                         152.018 ,
                         154.078 ,
2014-O-9     5-20-14     154.209 ,
                         154.298 ,
                         159.001  -
                         159.007
2014-O-15    9-16-14     110.17
2014-O-16    9-16-14     Repeals 152.140 - 152.151
2014-O-18    10-21-14    77.03
                         39.07,
2014-O-20    12-2-14     117.01 -
                         117.11,
                         117.99
                         39.07,
2015-O-1     2-3-15      90.02,
                         90.21
2015-O-4     2-3-15      50.108
2015-O-6     3-3-15      Ch. 79, Sch. I
2015-O-7     3-17-15     110.15
2015-O-7     3-17-15     110.15
2015-O-10    4-7-15      50.132
                         39.07,
2015-O-11    4-21-15     104.01 -
                         104.03,
                         104.99
2015-O-15    5-19-15     158.14
                         150.001,
2015-O-19    8-18-15     150.002,
                         150.999
2015-O-20    8-18-15     32.08
2015-O-21    10-6-15     136.01 -
                         136.09
                         39.07,
2015-O-22    10-6-15     96.01,
                         96.02,
                         96.99
                         110.25,
2015-O-23    10-20-15    110.33,
                         110.43,
                         110.99
2015-O-24    10-20-15    Ch. 79, Sch. I
2015-O-25    11-3-15     Ch. 79, Sch. I,
                         72.99
2015-O-27    12-15-15    90.02
                         154.282,
2016-O-1     1-5-16      154.283,
                         154.285
2016-O-2     1-5-16      154.011
2016-O-4     1-19-16     156.01
2016-O-5     3-1-16      154.021
                         39.07,
2016-O-7     6-7-16      110.13,
                         110.15,
                         110.55
                         39.07,
                         130.19,
                         130.99,
2016-O-11    8-2-16      131.99,
                         132.99,
                         133.99,
                         134.99
2017-1       1-17-17     158.07,
                         158.10
2017-O-3     3-7-17      102.01 -
                         102.04
2017-O-4     4-18-17     158.03,
                         158.07
2017-O-14    8-15-17     154.085,
                         154.095
2017-O-15    8-15-17     34.33
2017-O-19    10-3-17     34.10
                         154.078,
2017-O-26    11-5-17     154.085,
                         154.095,
                         154.106
                         154.008,
2017-O-27    11-5-17     154.012,
                         154.057,
                         154.058
                         31.160 -
2018-O-1     1-16-18     31.170,
                         31.999
2018-O-4     3-20-18     154.027
2018-O-6     4-17-18     39.07,
                         131.14
18-O-9       7-3-18      160.01 -
                         160.03
2018-O-14    10-16-18    154.003,
                         154.010
                         150.001,
2018-O-15    10-16-18    150.160 -
                         150.163, Repeals 150.140, 150.141, 150.180
2018-O-17    11-20-18    31.164
                         126.01 -
2018-O-20    12-4-18     126.26,
                         126.99
2019-O-14    6-4-19      31.045 -
                         31.047
                         154.078,
                         154.085,
                         154.087,
                         154.095,
                         154.097,
2019-O-18    10-15-19    154.106,
                         154.107,
                         154.120,
                         154.122,
                         154A.01 -
                         154A.12
2019-O-19    10-15-19    99.40,
                         99.41
2020-O-1     1-7-20      110.55
                         30.13,
2020-O-2     1-21-20     30.20,
                         32.04
2020-O-8     5-5-20      31.024
2020-O-10    4-6-21      156.01
2020-O-13    7-21-20     77.03
2021-O-14    5-18-21     30.10
2021-O-15    5-18-21     30.03
                         110.13,
2021-O-18    6-15-21     110.25,
                         110.31
2021-O-24    8-17-21     31.008
2021-O-26    9-21-21     133.01
                         110.13,
2021-O-29    11-16-21    110.15,
                         110.31
2022-O-1     1-18-22     125.01
2022-O-13    10-18-22    150.003
2022-O-16    11-15-22    110.31
2023-O-2     1-17-23     36.08,
                         150.003
2023-O-3     2-21-23     154.113
2023-O-10    6-20-23     100.17
2023-O-13    7-11-23     37.01 -
                         37.05
2023-O-14    7-11-23     155.07
2024-O-4     3-19-24     130.07,
                         130.15
                         Repeals Ch. 92;
                         93.01 -
                         93.03,
                         93.10,
                         93.11,
2024-O-5     3-19-24     93.20 -
                         93.24,
                         93.30 -
                         93.35,
                         93.45,
                         93.99
24-O-10      5-21-24     92.01 -
                         92.16
2024-14      7-16-24     154.021
                         116.12,
2024-O-17    11-19-24    116.14,
                         116.30,
                         116.99
2024-O-19    11-19-24    50.106
2024-20      11-19-24    50.020 -
                         50.035
                        
                        
 
